tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 66th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I'd like to ask the lawmakers to press voting buttons and report that they've been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from the technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system, to deliver the roll call ballots through the assigned personnel, within three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is from Blackbuke MP Burhanettin Uysal. Here you go, Mr. Softy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time has been five minutes, Mr. Soft.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0002par0017	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book promise on April 3rd because it's Blackbuke's founding day. I salute the High Council, our fellow saints watching us on their screens, and my fellow Blackbunchers. First of all, the death of the late Alparslan Turkesh, in the year of his death, with all our martyrs, with all our pasts, in the name of mercy. April 3, 1937, when the foundations of the Blackbuke iron steel mills were laid down, the heart of iron steel was the 79th and proud day of our Blackbuke, the day of our country's development dynamics. While many of our country's provinces celebrate the liberation from enemy occupation, the republic's Blackbuke celebrates the day of April 3rd as its founding day. Because of its proximity to the coal basin and its railway route and strategicity, Turkey's first integrated iron steel facilities were chosen by Karabuk and the foundation of iron steel factories was dumped in Karabuk village on April 3, 1937, and thus launched the first heavy industrial move from the steel industry of Karabuk, which was converted from the redacted agriculture into steel industry in Karabuk. Blackbuk, a 13-digit village, began the process of becoming a city on April 3, 1937, when iron steel factories were built. The municipality was founded on 25 June 1939. Karabük was born on 3 March 1953 in the District of Zonguldak, Safranbolu, Safranbolu Province, Turkey. Karabük was the 78th province of Turkey on June 6, 1995. The Blackbuke is a republic city because it is the first city to form after the declaration of the Republic. The iron steel factory, founded in Karabuk, also established the private sector around it, and one after the other, was built into large, small, small mills and foundries. Karabuk Iron Steel Factory was the leading and school of the industrial movement in Turkey, as it was the factory that built the factory. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs Karabuk is a rare example of the city where urbanization and industrialization are co-founded in our country. As we can see a different color and culture from all over the country, we can also see a work of Blackbuke in every corner of our country. Turkey has been the architect of many industrial institutions, dams, bridges, towers, antennas and so on. In short, Karabuk built and industrialized the young republic. With the first step in the industrialisation movement here, the Blackbuke has carried the right pride and pride of being the city that represents industrialisation and continues to carry on with the same determination and determination. The first thought of iron steel, as thought of by Karabuk, is that it was founded in 2007, with its university of 14 universities, 5 universities of universities, 7 universities of vocational education, 4 institutes and 50,000 students, Kardemir Karabuksporu, industry, and the world heritage city of UNESCO, Saffranbolu, and the country of Hadrianopolis, which was named after Ancient City, a city of Egypt, with the best forests and fields of natural beauty in the world. The development and change in all parts of our country during the AK PARTY rule is also happening in Karabuk. In Karabük, there are investments and services that he needs in all areas from education to health, from transportation to sports, and, of course, that is not enough. Our duty on the anniversary of Karabuk is to move our Blackbuke further in unity and unity and to fight for a leading province in all areas. In the beginning of the establishment of our Karabük, and Kardemir, I salute the great assembly with respect and mercy to Prime Minister Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Prime Minister Ismet Inönu, Chief of Staff Fevzi Çakmak and the state elders of that time, Kardemir workers.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0003par0029	Thank you, Mr. Easy. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan. Here you go, Mr. Lion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0004par0035	Mr. President, Mr. Court and the MPs, I salute you. This week is the night that connects Thursday to Friday, Regaip Kandili. Blessed be the Regaip Kandili of the entire Islamic world. ..... [[▪]] ▪Regaip will come to their popular, well-wanted, well-wished meanings. The Regaip Night is known as a night full of gifts to be evaluated. This is a night when God's blessings are showered on them. One of the special things about this night is that Ramazan is the first messenger of the month. In an event of holy Muhammad (ASV) the prayers of this night are not rejected. He also performed 12 prayers on Thursday night. Muhammad prayed and prayed and gave alms a lot in the month of the Recep. If we read a few of your stories about Regaip Kandili, God will forgive those who fast in the month of rehab. The fasting of a day at the beginning of the month, the middle of it, and the end of it is as the fasting of a month. During the time of the century, Bediuz said of Regaip Kandili, who stated that tonight was the title of the beginning of the life of Terakkiyat, and that Miraç Night was the title of the pinnacle of his life. Of course, that's part of what I've been talking about so far, between God and His servant. Now, I'm reading some verses and events about the part between the subjects. In the Qur'an, four months are pronounced "haram a month" (a month). In these four months, all forms of injustice, oppression, war, and killing are declared unlawful. One of them is a recep bear. In the 217th verse of Bacara... [[The reading of the 217th verse of Bakara by the preacher]] So they ask you about fighting in the sacred month. Say: War in that month is a great sin. There is also a sign in the House of Repentance that you should not wrong yourselves in those months, that you should not fight. The wars on that moon are called the war of ficcars. Four ficar wars have been fought throughout history. So it's so little done that it's only known as four wars. The word "ficar" means to be horny, to be righteous, to fall into sin, to keep his oath and to keep his promise. So we must do all we can to stop these deaths in honor of this month, this Regaip Kandili, and the beginning of the three months, because in Nisa 128... [[The reading of the 28th verse of Nisa sures.]] So there is absolute good in peace. Again, Enfal 61... [[Reading the 61st verse of Enphal by the preacher]] If they incline to peace, he said peace. There's an order here, so it's an order. Again, Bacara is in 208... [[The reading of the 208th verse of Baccara by the preacher]] So come into peace with the collective. There's an order and there's an agreement. I think we should be able to carry out these commandments in practice in this month and in these three months, because killing is also a plague. It is our duty to establish peace on this occasion, to stop killing and killing. I salute all of you with these feelings and wishes. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0005par0054	Thank you, Mr. Lion. The third unscheduled statement belongs to İzmir MP Oktay Vural, the founder of the National Movement Party, Alparslan Türkesh. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0006par0059	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, the wise leader of the Turkish world, Basbug Alparslan Türkesh Bey, walked to Hakkk on a snowy day nineteen years ago. The snow that fell on April 4th didn't put out this fire, it turned into a coal. After an 80 - year - old tree walked to Hakkah, millions of new sprouts grew fondly. So, in spite of the nineteen years, we have seen the great idea of Turkey, of nationalism, of nationalism, that the torch of purpose was never extinguished, in the eyes of the ideals that read the conquerors at the head of his grave. Thankfully for my Lord, millions of young people who followed his ideals, who accepted the union and support of the Turkish nation, who took responsibility for the oppressed nations who lived not only in the land but around the world, who loved the Turkish state and nation's unity and ministry. Yes, the 19th year of his departure has not changed, however, the place and importance of our chieftain in our hearts and minds. Mr. Turkesh has left us two important relics: the National Movement Party and the Ülkü Januarys. Happily, the country's Januarys and the National Movement Party, which he is always proud of and cares for, continue with great enthusiasm to follow in his footsteps today, the nation that he has taken over from him. In 1969, at our first convention in Adana, when the National Movement Party begins its glorious journey in political life, we will build the great, powerful, prosperous Turkey, the home of the people of Hür and happy. There will be a new beginning for Turkey's glorious future, which will carry an exceptional position in the new phase of our national history and in its national life. Isn't that what we're missing the most right now? We, the nationalist movement staff, are moving in line with his ideals, without any deviation from the beginning, without compromise from our goal. While Turkesh Bey is counting the obstacles in front of our nation, we see that nothing has changed much today as well. At the end of the Turkish state series that day, Turkesh Bey is behind the Turkish nation, the nation's caravan. Those who have the responsibility to rule the Turkish nation have squandered the time and resources of the nation. Today, unfortunately, we are facing the same painting, but we believe that as Turkesh Bey stated in the 1969 Assembly, the obstacles to the Turkish nation will change the fate of our nation, the nationalist staff, that condemns it to despair, poverty, poverty, ignorance, the determination to defeat it. Forty-six years ago, in the Adana Convention, the Turkish youth's silence in the face of the dangers that threatened our national existence was to be erased from the history scene of the Turkish Empire. Again, our people have been entwined with one another. It has made the biggest warning that Turkey will be disbanded by asking for division, asking for separate rights, asking for federation, asking for autonomy, or exposing a number of situations that would lead to separatism under the name of democratisation. This is a great game, a game of dismantling and dismantling Turkey, a game of disbanding its unity, he said. No, why the state, why the federation, why the federation? We are one nation, the Republic of Turkey will be a unitary state. They have declared their decision to claim the republic and its organisational struggle. Again, on January 11, 1971, in Adana, our nationalism was a unifying and integrating understanding that did not accept division, sect, religion, apartheid. We are Turkish nationalists who have chosen to have an honorable member of our nation with equal rights in the family of the world, who have gathered all members of our nation in fate, in joy, and in grief, in a common, undistributable state, around national understanding and ideals. We are proud to be Turkish nationalists. To our nation, a subject like Turkish nationalism, who left this holy cause... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0007par0069	I'll turn on your microphone. Complete, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0006par0070	...in his ideas, in his ideals, in his Turkish culture, in his history, in his politics, the millions of ecclesiastists who have been raised and worked for him will continue to live on his ideals and works. In this holy struggle, I salute the friends of the cause, who have brought the Nationalist Movement to this day, who have received the mercy of Hakk, who are alive, and who are alive with gratitude and gratitude. Chief, may your place be in heaven. "Happy is the one who says, 'I am a Turk.'"
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0008par0074	Thank you, Mr. Vural. We, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, celebrate the founding of the National Movement Party and the 19th anniversary of the death of Mr. Alparslan Turkesh, who served as President of the National Movement Party for many years. Now, I'm going to make a commitment to lawmakers who are entering the system and demanding a word by keeping an eye on the order of demand. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0009par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. The results of the war began to appear economic, cultural and social in Hatay, one of our cities in which the Syrian war was intense, and the people of Hatay began to live in very negative conditions than before the war. In the beginning of these setbacks, economic problems are increasing. How many files have been increased in Hatay since the war began? How much did the procedural bond amount reach? What's our number of citizens blacklisted for their debts? Given the special circumstances of Hatay and other cities affected by the war, do you intend to save money on the debts of our citizens who live here? On behalf of my people, who have been victimized in this matter, I demand this from your government. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0010par0085	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0011par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Brother Azerbaijan used his right to self-defense to launch an operation against Armenia on April 1st. He's taken back some strategic hills and residential units. Five Azerbaijan soldiers were killed in the conflict, more than 100 Armenian soldiers were killed. In spite of the ceasefire decision, Armenia continues to increase tension. Agdere, Terter, Hoxhavend and Fuzuli are attacking the Azerbaijan positions and firing on civilian settlements. We condemn these violence attacks against the two states, the one nation, Azerbaijan, and we invite Armenia to observe the truce. I ask God's mercy on our fallen Azerbaijan brothers, and upon the wounded an urgent cure. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0012par0090	Mr. Gazel...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0013par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Before the trial of Can Dündar and Erdem Gül on charges of espionage in İstanbul Courthouse, Sabah daily reporter Dilek Yaman was unfortunately attacked by Cumhuriyet daily writer Murat Soapcu. In this sense, I condemn this punching attack on our female journalist by a journalist who has a custom of defending freedom of the press in every environment. Meanwhile, we have seen from video footage that CHP MPs were also present at the time of the incident, and I submit this issue to the discretion of the General Assembly. Thank you all, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0014par0095	Mr. Sertel...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0015par0097	Mr. President, Mr. Aziz Kocaoglu, Mr. Ministers Bazili Yıldırım, Veysel Eroglu and Fatma Güldemet Sarı have called for a meeting at the CED summit, the most important summit of İzmir. Maybe this voice from İzmir will not reach here, and I want to repeat: St. Kocaoglu doesn't ask the government for stamps to build the solid waste plant, he just asks permission, the Gulf and the CED report. How can we save the port of İzmir, who wants to bring 4,000 tons of daily garbage to an economic value, and who wants to create a floating bay? Let not the AKP ministers and other bureaucrats who do not respond to the president's CED's request, who do not want money stamps, and who do not respond to the request of CED, and who do not forget that İzmir is being punished, not St. Bigoglu. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0014par0099	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0016par0101	Minister of Forest and Water Affairs Mr. Veysel Eroglu recently arrived in Niğde. Mr. Secretary, the Akkaya Dam, which has been transmitted to you every time you visit, remains an environmental problem. This was first addressed to you in 2009. I've been to Akkaya Dam's watering point one more time recently, and the water is green, it's foaming, and it's very difficult to stand there from the smell. However, Akkaya is said to have been cleansed for years, and there is no change; urgent intervention is needed. Between Niğde-Bor, next to the university, it's a total environmental disaster. We'd like you to pay us a visit, save the dam. And you have also brought up the matter of the waters of Ecemish, which came out of Aladağ, and flowed into the Mediterranean, into the plains of Nibde. There's not even a project for Ecemish Water that's been spoken of for the last 20 years, which has been often remembered in the last ten years. In this context, we wish to address the subject this time. I've also told you about the question of the Daunted Pond. The pond needs immediate attention. And I'd like to commend you on what's necessary in this matter.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0017par0104	Mr. Ceylan...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0018par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, on Sunday, April 3rd -- as of yesterday -- I wish God's mercy on the martyr we buried at Corum, and my condolences to the families of our other martyrs. Mr. President, recently, through social media, young people have been appealing to new legislation. Young people have expressed that the 1982 Constitution, prepared by September 12th coupgers, has built a system on the lack of accountability of bureaucracy, the state, and that the changes made to democracy are not enough because it is the product of a mindset that defines democracy as an abundance of clothing for the nation. By listening to young people's voices, this Parliament must draft a constitution that will establish strong Turkey, which will lay the foundations of strong economy, social justice, social reconciliation, which will end fights, build trust in the law, respect the beliefs of the citizens.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0019par0110	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0020par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. ministers, the mayors in the District of Karaköpörü, Şanlıurfa Province, are looking for us, the electricity is cut every day at twelve o'clock, and the electricity is given by TEDAŞ at 7 p.m. It's not a day, it's not two days, it's a constant victimization. We demand that this sacrifice be relieved. They call it. The second question is: When will the people of Yavuzturk neighbourhood of our province of Üskudar, Istanbul, have zoning and deed problems, and when will they be removed? In the same way, the citizens have zoning and deed problems in some neighborhoods in our Beykoz district, Ministers. Both Beykoz and Yavuzturk also have a lot of land and zoning problems in Chile. When are you going to deal with these deeds and zoning issues, and when will these sacrifices be resolved? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0021par0116	Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0022par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. This is the Minister of the Forest. On average, 8,000 hundred and thirty years of pine trees were cut off, being told that they would build a pond at the foot of the city with the husband. I went there yesterday, I saw it myself, and I saw this tree fall down, and those trees, that forest, that you see, are being cut even more inwardly. 12,000 cubic metres, about 60-70,000 pine trees are said to be cut down like this. There are three ponds about two miles that way, Mr. Secretary. It's said there's no irrigating agriculture there either. So there's no need for a pond there, and there's no way to make up for these two hundred-year-old trees being cut down. Please stop this at once and stop this massacre. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0023par0122	Mr. Tuncer...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0024par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. The Amasya Merzifon New Meltek Coal Company was handed over to Soma Holdings, who was responsible for the Soma disaster through redevance. Soma Holdings wanted to build a thermal power plant for this operation, but it has already failed to achieve its goal, so it has decided to banish the workers of the New Celtek Coal Company from Merzifon to Soma. The workers do not want to go to another furnace, and they have also begun to act against the mandatory migration. They've gone underground today, and they'll continue to act on their way to Earth until that decision is made. I support them in these righteous acts of our workers, and I demand that the workers be sent back from the mandatory migration to Soma. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0025par0127	Mr. Bay...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0026par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. According to my reports, as of today, I've been informed that there will be immigration entrances to Izmir, from Cesme and Dikili. What is to be done by adding Izmir tourism to Turkish tourism, which is already on the ground? Two live bombs were caught on the ferry two weeks ago, while the agreement with Europe and the implementation of Mr. Minister's statements conflicted. Will you vote for immigrants who are expected to settle down in İzmir in 2019? You're going to import terror into Izmir for the vote? We expect the relevant Ministry to make this clear.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0025par0131	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0027par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. With terror on the street, our Düzce County President was hit in the street. Yesterday, we condemn the attack on our fellow MP Mehmet Alleg, who attended the martyr's funeral at Balıkesir.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0025par0135	Mr. Saribal...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0028par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, we strongly condemn yesterday's attack on Mr. Mehmet Alley, our Balıkesir MP. We curse this fascist and reactionary attack. We know very well it's part of the game. Those who already feed on chaos, once again, to bring the country into more chaos, either silence all those who favor peace in this country, or kill it, or burn it. It stands before us as a new model of ingestion and destruction, and I curse and condemn those who do so once again. Again, Mr. President, this country has had a major economic difficulty in agriculture from Russian aircraft to today. The artificial chaos created after the crash of the Russian plane has also been added to climate chaos. After climate change and global warming, there has been serious damage to agricultural products in many parts of our country. I call on the political power and government to immediately develop an emergency action plan to address the hard economic difficulties of the farmer. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0029par0141	Mr. Birkan...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0030par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish all our martyrs mercy. I also ask for the mercy of our soldiers who were killed in Azerbaijan. I condemn terrorism. Terror is a crime of humanity, and a terrorist is a criminal against humanity. I also condemn those who praise terror, support it with their declarations, call the terrorist a freedom fighter and bless it. At least as much as a terrorist, I'm stating that these are partners in crimes against humanity. Again, I wish all our martyrs mercy, saying that our country will overcome terror with more freedom and more democracy, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0031par0146	Mr. Tezcan...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0032par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. April 1 7th, cancer week in our country. So I made a promise to create awareness, to raise awareness of cancer in our nation and our fellow congressmen. The second most common cause of death in our country after heart disease is cancer. In men, especially lung, prostate, or cholesterol cancers are the most common forms of cancer in women: breast, thyroid, and cholesterol cancers. 90% are caused by environmental factors, and at this point we know that tobacco, alcohol, and obesity are the most common factors. In the fight against tobacco, the EC PARTY government has been drawing attention to very important issues over the course of 14 years and has created awareness...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0033par0153	Mr. Ersoy...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0034par0155	The great man of the cause, Alparslan Türkesh Sir, I remember him with mercy and gratitude and gratitude for the 19th year of his departure. The great tree that bloomed in its coffins, May 3, 1944, left us by teaching its 80-year life span a great generation, the birth of a great political movement, the future of the Turkish nation and the Turkish state, how nationalism and democracy can be looked after side by side. Though he departs from us in the flesh, he, who dwells in our hearts, remembers us with respect, mercy, and gratitude, saying, "Your way is our way, Basbug."
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0033par0157	Mr. Erkan Akçay...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0035par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. We are in the 19th anniversary of the death of our party's founder, President Basbug, Alparslan Türkesh. I wish God's mercy and thanks to our late Prime Minister. At every moment of his life, Basbug Turkesh has claimed the issues of Turkey and the Turkish world and has been the architect of the ideals that will bring the Turkish nation and the Republic of Turkey into the future. Basbug Turkesh, one of the leading figures in our republic's history with his ideas and struggle, set nationalism in the struggle for the rise of the Turkish nation into the framework of a doctrine in accordance with the needs of the age. He has worked tirelessly and tirelessly to allow the existence of the Republic of Turkey, the Turkish nation, and the Turkish country to last forever under the principle of the state for a period of time. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as you know, were occupied in 1991 by the Mountain Karabakh, Azerbaijan. More than 20,000 Turks were killed by Azerbaijan, while tens of thousands of Azerbaijan Turks were forced to emigrate, and Armenia broke its ceasefire with Azerbaijan in 1994 at various times. Finally, 12 Azerbaijans were killed on April 1, 2016, including civilians. Although Azerbaijan declared a unilateral ceasefire in the region on April 2, 2016 as a gesture of goodwill, three more Azerbaijan soldiers were killed on April 4, 2016 as a result of the attack by Armenia. I think it would be helpful to have a joint statement, Mr. President, as political parties in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, informing them that we are with them in this righteous case of friend and brother Azerbaijan. And with that thought, I'm calling for a joint statement to the political party groups. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0036par0164	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0037par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to say that we have condemned the attack on Mr. Mehmet Allezir at a martyr's funeral, and that we've been waiting for an important explanation of his responsibility, which is due to the property, by the institutions or parties in which he belongs. As Turkey speeds towards one spiral of violence, the turning of martyr funerals into another violence will lead to many other traumas in Turkey. These irresponsible individuals need immediate exclusion from society and the removal of Turkey from the violent spiral. We're going through a period where we need to be very calm. I repeat, we maintain this sensitivity and condemn the attack on our friend. Also, the Republican People's Party, who always thinks that kindness is necessary in politics, expressed today's sensitivity of the Nationalist Movement Party on the anniversary of the death of Alparslan Turkesh, an important figure in Turkish politics, with respect and respect for its commitment to Alparslan Turkesh, again, asking for God's mercy. Today, in 1968, Martin Luther King was killed. The death of Martin Luther King, one of the world's political massacres, led to another revolution in peace, freedom, and human rights in the world. It's a very painful death, but it's clear how much trauma political death can cause in society. We wish that by considering these deaths and the violent environments that have been experienced, Turkey would be free of this violent spiral, and terror would be over as soon as possible. I declare that we condemn the violence of all organizations, regardless of the meaning of terror, wherever it comes from -- the PKK, the DHKP-C, ISIS -- whatever it means, and ask for God's mercy to all our martyrs. We also think that this conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan should be resolved immediately, and that both countries should be sensitive. We emphasize that the Minsk Group must take the lead in this matter immediately, and that it must act according to its organization, and that we wish Azerbaijan and Armenia a friendly and peaceful life. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0038par0175	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0039par0177	Mr. President, thank you. I ask God's mercy again for the 19th year of the death of former President of the National Movement Party Alparslan Türkesh. Alparslan Turkesh is a leader who has given his entire life to the nationalist cause, fought for it, and managed to build nationalism as an idea and politics that embraces everyone in communities like us. He is a political leader who has publicly demonstrated his political position and led the nation in 1969, the establishment of the MPP, the 1980 coup. Political leaders who played such a role in the common destiny and future of the nations are names that come from different rivers, and when they lose their lives, they find meaning in the common existence of the nation. Like other political leaders who have served this nation before, Alparslan Türkesh will be blessed with his services. On the other hand, the recent conflict between Azerbaijan-Ermenistan and the loss of lives have been followed by concern. There has been no peace in that land since Mount Karabök was invaded by Armenia. Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) has the right to resist this invasion of his own land and, of course, reclaim his land. This right is maintained in diplomatic ways, through various negotiations, and these areas are open. In this regard, Azerbaijan is doing his best not to have tensions in the region and to keep diplomatic channels open, creating problems, and continuing his cool state attitude towards escalation strategies. We support Azerbaijan's policy as the Republic of Turkey. As a third issue, we are deeply sorry to hear that Republican People's Party MP Mehmet Allik was involved in an attack by a person at a martyr's funeral in Edremit. The pain of the people is the pain of all of us, the pain of all of us. I find it inadmissible, in any way, to condemn an attack that I find unintelligible and absolutely unbecoming.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0040par0183	I'll turn on your microphone, finish your words, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0039par0184	We also view the attack on Mehmet Allah as an attack on the political institution in Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0040par0186	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0041par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the illegal and inhuman curfews imposed by the AKP government, unfortunately, are being carried out very recklessly despite all warnings. There is still a blockade and curfew against all city centers in Şırnak, Nusaybin, Turkey has returned to a house of condolence, a house of mourning, and a house of mourning. We'd like to say that there's been a major drama, a great tragedy, about the number of funerals that exceed the capacity of many morgues in the region. First of all, we say that we condemn this approach, that these illegal and inhuman blockades, this concept of war under curfew, must be withdrawn immediately. These blockades have been carried out in the field, as discussed here, as well as here, as the solution process continues, as part of a crash plan launched by 2015, and have again been carried out as a result of some settlements agreed on at the National Security Council. As of April 5, 2015, we think we should read the date when the isolation and torture system, which has been held for 17 years on the island of Imralı, should be turned into a aggravated isolation. Mr. Ocalan has been under the concept of special isolation and torture that no political leader or human being has been exposed to in the world for 17 years. From April 5, 2015, this particular concept of isolation and torture has been transformed into a heavily aggravated isolation system, which will not meet with their families, lawyers, and political delegations. Today, especially to bring attention to this concept of isolation, as has been for 17 years, our people, who are trying to create sensitivity on Mr. Ocalan's birthday, are walking to Amara, and calling for this isolation system to be abandoned. Unfortunately, however, with great pressures, bans and intervention, the will of our people is being broken.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0042par0195	I'm going to turn on your microphone and finish your words, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0041par0196	We'd like to express that we're condemning this prohibitive understanding. We want to express that we value the will our people have shown against isolation and the concept of war on Amara, and that Mr. Ocalan has shown a great war of will in the name of peace and resolution in spite of AKP's war policies. On the other hand, about the recent sad events between Armenia and Azerbaijan, both the AKP government officials and President Erdogan will deepen the crisis there, increase tension; just as in Syria, we find their statements that will be a part of the war unacceptable in any way. I want to say that what needs to be done is to support peaceful diplomatic efforts between Azerbaijan and Armenia, to contribute to these efforts, to include representatives of the people living in Mount Karabağ.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0042par0199	Please complete.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0041par0200	And finally, Mr. President, I would like to say that we also condemn and find the attack on Mr. Mehmet Allief, the Republican People's Party MP. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0042par0202	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0043par0203	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0042par0204	The Minister has a request for word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0044par0207	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement regarding the solid waste disposal facility in İzmir, especially with my name mentioned. We also have a request from our Nüğde MP for water, and three issues related to the pond. Now, especially when Izmir Metropolitan Mayor Aziz Kocaoglu himself visited me, he made three demands. One asked for a place in the woods for the solid waste disposal plant. Two, the Braves demanded that the dam be given water. Three also demanded that Narlıdere Dam be built by us. I said to him, "We'll do the Braves' Dam and Narlidere." We've already brought water from Manisa, you know, to Izmir. In fact, the construction of the huge tunnel in Buca is ongoing. We'll cover all the water requirements for this species, İzmir, but I thought I'd check out the forest area. When we looked into it, we found out that his request was the forest -- the ramparts, along with the nature parks -- but I instructed our forest director and the regional manager, that the best place, even with the Metropolitan City City authorities, would be found and provided. They've even found three or four places, and I've given it to Mr. Bakili Bey. So when the Mayor of the Metropolitan comes in -- however much this solid waste disposal facility is entirely owned, it's run by city municipalities -- of course, we're going to give all kinds of support, but there's just been a demand for us, a month ago and here -- but we're going to help. The second thing is what our deputy Niğde said. Sir, I was in Niğde on Saturday and Sunday. We've been to the water supply in person. There are two alternatives, but while we're solving Niğde's water problem...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0045par0211	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you one more minute, complete your commitments.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0044par0212	Yes, sir. Of course, we said that to solve all the water issues between Niğde, Aksaray and his neighborhood. Basically, we built a modern drinking water treatment facility for Niğde to remove arsenic, but we really need new resources for water in the future. It could be a source of death, a sugarpunch... We also discussed water supplying from some dams and formed a delegation on the subject. We'll do the most appropriate project. I'd like to emphasize that in a nutshell. And finally, about a pond, he said the pines had been cut. Sir, ponds aren't built without demand. Big demand, one. Secondly, we're making these ponds in the woods, and it helps a lot with fires. That's where the helicopters get water. So, maybe a very small amount of old pines will be cut, but we'll plant 10 times that. Three and a half billion so far...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0046par0216	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0047par0217	There are three ponds around you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0046par0218	We're going on the agenda...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0048par0219	Mr. President, may I add something?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0046par0220	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0048par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. I've just learned that, as expressed in the speech of the members of the members of the group, Republican People's Party Balıkesir MP Mehmet all of you, I regret to learn that there was a fistful attack at a martyr's funeral. I condemn this incident, and I want to express that I find it unacceptable. I remind all our citizens to stay calm and calm and I advise caution to everyone, everyone. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0049par0226	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As the district of Yusufeli in Artvin Province will be under the dam, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research on the 98th and 105th Articles of the Constitution in order to examine and eliminate the victims of the new settlement and our citizens. Due to the change of settlement in the district of Yusufeli, the new settlements in the district of Yusufeli have been announced for ownership and relocation of the residence of 16/9/2015. While the criteria for the spread of right ownership are positive, we find that there are many traps and regulations against the public, especially when the certificate of commitment is examined. It's a basic right for citizens to return unharmed when they don't like these buildings being built by the state. Here's the thing: there's no telling what quality buildings are to be built, and there's no telling how much it's going to cost. T.C. We understand that despite the fact that the amount of land costs will be added to the premises in Article 20/5 of the District of 2013/2013, which was issued in the Official Gazette of 08/5/2013, the cost of this building will be added to these buildings, without justification two years after the written promise made to the citizens. There's no telling how much the land will cost, how much the buildings will cost. Since there are many such ambiguities, it is vital that the citizen's right to give up his request for residence at every step of the way. So let's talk here about the traps in the contract in the housing announcement. This contract is in the official form of a contract and a bond. Once this document is signed, you've paid off the debt. In Article 4 of this document, when we give up ownership of the right, or the dwelling, it is arranged that we will pay our share of all expenses and for all expenses, without any prejudice and with legal interest, in cash. This means that when you apply for rights ownership and sign this document, you no longer have the right to give up. If you desist, you must pay the property price for the building that hit you with the lottery, immediately, with interest at once. So even though people who don't give up get an apartment in 20 years, you're not going to get an apartment, and you're going to pay the full price. This is where the biggest trap was set. At meetings, however, authorities told the citizens otherwise. As a second trap -- this is established in the 6th article of the commitment -- you cannot rent your dwelling for ten years; if you give it, your rights will be revoked and your apartment will be taken from you, and all the expenses of the apartment will be taken from you from the first day of delivery. You can't sell it until ten years are up. Again, the trap in the 8th article is even more severe. You'll get permission to send your son to military and school, or to hire him outside; you'll get permission if you're going to go on a short-term flight. Or your rights will be revoked and you'll have to pay all the expenses, including the land price. This means that these practices, which are offered as services, turn the district of Yusufeli into a semi-open prison, either leave it or live in a semi-open prison. Therefore, it is imperative that this ad and the crop be removed and corrected immediately. In light of the above issues stated, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental investigations of our Constitution's 98th and Interior Charter 104th and 105th Articles, in order to examine and eliminate the victims of the rights and citizens in the new settlement because of the fall of the district of Yusufeli, Artvin Province. [[Artvin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] [[Tunceli]] 6) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] 7) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Edirne]] [[Janitor]] 11) Gamze Akkuş İsgez [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Paddles]] [[Slap]] 18) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 20) Zülfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[Zonguldak]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] 26) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Children's homes and children's homes in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy have been opened under Social Services Act 2828 for care, care, and adoption of children who are in need of protection. They are assigned to protect children between the ages of 13 and 18 who need protection, take care of them, and have a job or a profession, and to grow up to be useful to the community. Young people who are cared for in foster homes until they are 18 years old have to leave their homes after the age of 18. It is known that those who left foster homes were often unable to receive enough support during their stay in these dorms, and for these reasons, they had to leave the institutions where they came in trouble before their problems could be resolved. This results in children facing severe and complicated problems that they can't overcome with individual efforts after leaving the dorms. At the beginning of these problems comes the problem of education for young people in this area. It is of great importance that tens of thousands of children who have been protected in foster homes are brought to society as healthy and educated individuals because they have suffered from various causes, have lost their family, have been abused, have been deprived of parental love and protection. Studies show that only 2% of young people who have left foster homes can win a four-year university programme, which shows the fact that academic levels and achievements of our young ones are significantly lower than those of their peers. For these reasons, our young ones who have left foster homes do not have the opportunity to work in qualified jobs, but are able to find a place in the subsidiaries, such as the plain officer, the servant. Young people who were expelled from their homes for turning 18 are left alone in a time when they are open to any threat, danger, and abuse without sufficient experience; they face other social problems, such as not only integrating, isolated, and lonely. In particular, young people who do not have a family to seek refuge, help, and support are forced to commit crimes and crimes by not adapting to society. This has led to many offenders who have been raped and abused, addicted to drugs and drugs, involved in theft and extortion. An important problem for young people in this situation is unemployment. The Law, dated 25/2/1988 and 3413, was issued to bring these young people into society by providing them with employment in public institutions and institutions. However, there are problems with the employment practice brought in by this law. Right now, there are thousands of people waiting to get a job taking advantage of that law. These people are suffering greatly because they can't be put to work. A large number of these brothers and sisters, who have no family or relatives to receive material and spiritual support, are having a hard time getting housing, and they do not have a home to live in for the rest of their lives. A healthy civil society is also needed to work in cooperation with public institutions concerned with a group of about 400,000 people and with family and relatives throughout Turkey, and to work with them to support them for the rest of their lives. Other than those mentioned above, the problems of our young ones who have left their foster homes must be dealt with thoroughly and quickly resolved. For reasons explained, we demand and demand the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Article 105 of the 98th and TBM Institution to determine the necessary measures to resolve the problems of our young people who left their foster homes after they turned 18 years old. 1) Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 6) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Janitor]] 12) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Edirne]] 15) Gamze Akkuş İsgez [[İstanbul]] 16) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Paddles]] [[Antalya]] 21) Zulfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[Zonguldak]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Amasya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully request and request the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission in accordance with Articles 104 to 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, in order to determine the current problems of organised industrial areas (OSB) today, to address these problems, and to investigate the measures that must be taken so that they can be dealt with better than they already are. 8/12/2015 We are always defending the engine mission of our Turkish industry's economic and social development. Therefore, we believe that the issue of the organised industrial region (OSB) should be first understood and then approached as a national issue of the importance of the government, then the whole community. The lack of legal regulation of our organised industrial areas, which have been in our country for about 40 years, was dealt with by the Law on Organised Industry Areas No. 4562 during the 57th Government. It was intended by this law to establish our industry in regular areas, to direct urbanization, to prevent environmental problems, to use information and IT technologies, to ensure a regular and adequate infrastructure, to build the manufacturing industry within a specific plan. But at the point where we're here, many of our OSB problems have not been solved by the current government since 2003. Today, our OSBs are facing many solutions, such as tax pressure, insufficient incentives, high energy input prices, transportation, production construction rates. But our OSBs are the apple of the eye of our country and the lifeblood of our economy. Therefore, it is a great task for our Assembly to investigate measures that must be taken to determine the current problems of organised industrial areas (OSB), to address these problems, and to improve their present situation. In order for our Supreme Assembly to carry out this mission, a parliamentary research commission must be established under the Articles 104 to 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBMM Council. 1) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 3) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 5) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Kayseri]] [[Samsun]] [[Ankara]] [[Mughle]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] 19) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Inconceived]] [[Osmaniye]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. According to the decision taken, we move to the special agenda's part of the agenda. We are starting talks with Diyarbakır MP İdris Bauken and Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel, who has been in the name of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on behalf of the 1st part of this part, as well as with the First Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ (11/3) as to the opening of a Gensoru on behalf of Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken and Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel (11/3), who has been under pressure and directed by Judiciary Erkini, on the principle of separation of the Forces and on the Constitution. Government? Here. Since it has been published and distributed before and has been read in the 62nd Union of the General Assembly of March 29, 2016, I am not having it re-readed. Members of parliament, under Article 99 of the Constitution, the meeting will be promised to a member of the motions, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a Prime Minister or minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. Now, I'm reading the names of the following members: The motion holder, Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan, Van MP. Political party groups: Mehmet Parsak, Afyonkarahisar MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group; Coral Danış Beştaş on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Adana MP; Bkent Tezcan on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Aydın MP; Orhan Atalay on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Ardahan MP. In the name of the government, Bekir Bozdağ, Minister of Justice. Now, in order, I'll meet your demands. On behalf of the motionmakers, the first speaker is Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan, Van MP. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0050par0425	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I've been promised here today to discuss Mr. Bekir Bozdağ's motion for the geneorization of our party. I'm going to refer to the reasons that led us to give the gene, but in giving this gene, there are also millions in the society of Turkey that say that almost everyone has a belief in justice and justice first, that nothing is going well anymore. Although the country has become a place of fire, it bothers us that those who need to feel responsible are not at all disturbed by the way things are going. As you know, we have been witnessing for a long time that international contracts, particularly the Constitution, and internal legislation have not been implemented and right violations have been legitimized. Of course, in all this atmosphere, Mr. Bozdağ has a high-level responsibility. Instead of representing social justice, the Minister of Justice has played an active role in the country's chaos and continues to play. Mr. Secretary, the community is under pressure by separatist rhetoric and disregarding the rule of separation of forces. Injustice is the most established problem of the Turkish justice system in the past. In the 1990s, some of the cases stemming from the state's severe rights violations in Kurdish geography were settled in 2015. He was acquitted in May of 13 counts of aggravated life imprisonment against Musa Çitil, accused of the death and loss of 13 civilians in Derek district of Mardinin, where he served as commander of the District General from 1992 to 1994. The persecution that began before the AKP's rule has also shown itself in the hands of the judge after AKP. Mr. Secretary and his judicial bodies are taking positions in the political climate as they make their decisions. Musa Çitil, who was acquitted in this climate, was promoted to Diyarbakır MP District Command in Şura, which was collected in August. Moses Çitil continued his new assignment as usual. It is no coincidence that Moses Çitil (Moses Çitil) commanded the curfew in Sur, which has been going on for over a hundred days, as in the 1990s, it is the most important indication that today's violations will go unpunished. The injustices of those exposed to the violence of law enforcement officers in the illegal districts and districts, whose rights were violated, their naked bodies exposed, their bodies tortured, their pictures displayed, have not been brought to trial, nor have they ever been investigated. The Constitutional Court's appeals for illegal curfews have been rejected, as well as the fact that the measures issued by the ECHR are not implemented and people are left to die is a continuation of the same policy. Remember that crimes against humanity and crimes involving all kinds of atrocities during this period are the work of your power. One of the prime ministers of today, who will fall into history as a page of shame, is the Minister of Justice. As you failed to implement the ECHM measures decision, you also targeted attorneys who carried Cizre to the ECHM and had them tried in court. On the one hand, neither national nor international legislation, curfews, non-AIHS provisions, and an ECHR decision that does not apply on the other. We think it's a big contradiction to pass laws over and over again as an excuse to enter the European Union when international obligations are so underfoot. At the coming point, the minister leads the judiciary by leading the double standard and punishment policies in the judiciary. The top of ISIS-related bombings are covered by a confidentiality order, including lawyers, no one has access to the slightest bit of information about the investigations. Suruç has yet to make progress in Ankara massacres. The indictment for the bombing of our Diyarbakır rally in June was adopted last Friday, but it is not difficult to predict in the present environment how this would turn out. Mr. Secretary, you are one of the most responsible for the bombings, the initial conflicting process. Mr. Abdullah, you have a part in the process being completed by starting the lockdown on Ocalan. During the negotiation process, peace and peace were born in the country, and for the first time, there was a process of rapid democratisation, and for the past year, you have prevented counsel, family, and committee from meeting with Mr. Ocalan. Since then, you have misused your mission by trying to legitimize all the illegalities of the existing conflicting process by the Ministry's hand. Dear MPs, as we all know, since Recep Tayyip Erdogan became President, an important part of the courts have been busy investigating whether he has been insulted. In the last two years, we're looking at almost five times the number of defamation cases against a president. The increase in the number of cases in the context of defamation of the President has also attracted the attention of the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe's advisory body on constitutional issues. According to the commission's report published on March 15th, the only way to eliminate the violations of freedom of expression due to the excessive and increasing use of this clause is to remove this clause, so it will not even be able to save Turkey after this period. As the office authorizing an investigation into the defamation cases of the President used as the only means to silence the opponents, the chief responsibility for not reading freedom of expression in Turkey is also the Minister of Justice. While the courts are working for the President, the President says he does not recognise the Constitutional Court's decisions. The Minister of Justice also supports the President's criticism, saying the Constitutional Court's decision is against the Constitution and the law. Clearly, we are dealing with a Minister of Justice who does not know the Constitution. Mr. Secretary, for once, I suggest that you remember that the Ministry is working for all citizens of the country and get your shit together. Your duty is not to bring the Constitutional Court underfoot, but to oversee the rights of the Constitutional Court and other courts and to ensure that it is recognised by everyone. You know, we've been through December 17th and 25th. As citizens of this country, we expected this process to be properly investigated for the biggest corruption claims in the country's history, but it didn't. For the closure of the investigation files on the ministers' cases, the draft laws containing amendments have been signed and proposed to cover the crimes of ministers under positive regulations eight months ago, and the HSYK has been directly linked to the Justice Minister three times in four years. The Minister is at a loss as to what he will do to protect his party and cover up his allegations of corruption. After all, we have replaced the judge, the police, the prosecutor, our own staff. Last week, he told the Justice Commission that the incidents had nothing to do with Turkey and that all Turkish relations were in accordance with the law. I ask you: Doesn't it make you suspicious that the Turkish companies in the US case against Reza Zarrab are being tried for fraud and money laundering by someone you refer to as a philanthropist? Will there be no investigation of companies mentioned in the indictment in Turkey? Again, shell companies, which ISIS provides all kinds of logistical support for, have been reflected in reports from the United Nations. We ask: Have any investigations been launched into companies whose names are mentioned in these reports? No one in the country has any faith in justice or justice. As Minister of Justice in charge of the establishment of justice, don't you feel any remorse for the despair of the citizens? For all these reasons, we, the People's Democratic Party, feel that one of the prime suspects in law enforcement and suspension is the Minister of Justice, and we believe that he should answer in front of the citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0051par0443	Thank you, Mr. Ozky Ertan. Mehmet Parsak, MP of Afyonkarahisar on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Parsak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0052par0448	I have made a pledge on behalf of the Millitarian Movement Party Group concerning the Council of Ministers for the Opening of a Gensor on Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, the People's Minister of Justice, the Honourable Turkish nation, (11/3), on the First Judge Erkini Presses and Directs, the Rules of Determination of Forces and the Constitution, and on the charge that he is in the Infrastible Approach to the Constitution. On this occasion, I salute the Veterans' House. Before I begin my remarks, I remember the 19th year of the death of Alparslan Turkesh, the founder and first leader of the National Movement Party, the legendary leader of the Turkish world, the righteous statesman of every era, and also the last of the Turkish nation. Basbug Alparslan Turkesh is a person who is no different from mud. Through his words, we understand his philosophy and the purpose of fighting each passing day. Also, again, people endure poverty, hunger, thirst, but they will never tolerate injustice, contempt, humiliation, and humiliation. The words of Basbug are one of the important ideas that makes sense again today. Honourable MPs are, as Basbug Alparslan Türkesh said, a preeminent concept of injustice, poverty, and hunger, which will never be tolerated. You can make roads, you can distribute bread, food, and even rants through government resources, you can make these situations the main backbone of your political propaganda, but unless you can get justice for everyone, you can't really have power, and you can certainly account for it one day. We believe that the proposal for the opening of the genome of HDP (HDP) has been malicious and is intended to humiliate the state of the Republic of Turkey under the name of Turkey, to prevent the fight against terrorism, which will not surprise any of us again. According to us, this motion should not be submitted for reasons stemming from the fight against terrorism, but for reasons why terrorism has not been fought enough. However, it must be known by everyone that indirect or direct terrorist support has never been in any part of our history as the National Movement Party, and will never again be found. As the Nationalist Movement Party, despite all the persecutions of those in power of state, our perfect commitment to the undivised integrity of the Republic of Turkey's state and its nation will continue to declare. The AKP governments have a report card for the fight against terrorism. When the AKP government again saw the bloody and treacherous face of terror, which had no opportunity to negotiate with terrorism, to fight terrorism, the AKP government had come to its senses, even though it wasn't determined and sincere enough to fight terrorism. Under the circumstances, an approach by AKP to combat terrorism, even if only half-mouthed, should at least not be expected from the National Party of Action. Members of parliament, AKP governments and Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ have a record of injustice, particularly the fight against terrorism. The policies carried out by AKP governments to disrupt and change the mechanisms of justice and justice will never be erased from the Turkish nation's memory. The structure of the HSYK and the Constitutional Court has changed in the 2010 Constitutional referendum, while the AKP has not avoided interfering with these institutions via law after a December 17th-25 investigation of corruption and bribery. Again, as a result of operations carried out under such so-called coup attempts as, "Balioz", "Ergenekon," "I'm sorry." As the AKP's head of the process today, the AKP's half-brother was actually pointed out to be the minor power of the period. By today, the index of trust in the judiciary is lower than ever, and it crawls on its knees. Even in a simple divorce trial by clients, do you know who the lawyer is? The question, such as "Do you know who the lawyer is?," clearly reveals the situation in which the Turkish judicial system has been reduced. Claims of court and prosecutor's examinations were vital for the judge to present the latest state of Turkish justice, which has been discharged and rendered unequivocally, in almost every critical case, including my judge's fights, the 17-25 December corruption and bribery investigation. Before deciding on a case given to judges appointed in the Hitler era, imagine how the Führer would have decided in my place, and make your decision just like that. The advice sums up the judicial system of the government's imagination in the best possible way. On this occasion, to the so-called new Ottomans, ours also happened. We, too, would like to remind you of the loyalty of Sultan Mehmet Mehmet the Conqueror, who has been judged by his wife in such an age of tongue emoticon. As we all know, if you had trusted your kingship and disobeyed my decision, I would have crushed your head with this mace and killed you right there. As for the woman's words, so did Sultan Fatih the Great. If you had made a different decision in my kingdom, I would have cut your head off with my sword. Let us think together: Do the justice policies of the AKP government over the past 13 years resemble Hitler's system or the justice of Sultan Mehmet Mehmet the Conqueror? Precious lawmakers, all kinds of terror, especially PKK terrorism, were dealt with and supported during the AKP administrations. Together with the PKK and its political extensions, we are living as a nation today with the heavy consequences of the treason process under the name of the solution. On the other hand, in the internal turmoil in Syria, the elements of the Free Syrian Army, PYD and ISIS were dealt directly with, the armed members of these organisations were treated in our country, these organisations were given infrastructure support and were even allowed to hold meetings in our country. We come to Istanbul, we come to Erdogan's house, we talk, we talk, we talk, we talk, then they call us terrorists. During the AKP period, laws on the fight against terrorism were designed to avoid the struggle against terrorism, and our security forces and the judiciary were tied to the hand of the court and opened up a space for terrorism and terrorists. The issue of inadequate legislation has been added to the problem of not implementing these legislation, thus reducing acts involving direct terrorism to crimes such as opposition to the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations. On the other hand, as a result of the implementation of the treason policies under the name of the Anti-Terror Code, terrorists walked past military troops with their weapons, which was explained to the Turkish nation that a picnic would take place in the mountains. Unfortunately, an arrangement in the Anti-Terror Law that authorises the fight against terrorism or allows the fight against terrorism was almost complete due to acts of treason by AKP governments. Many articles of the Anti-Terror Law have been removed over time, replaced with new regulations, and the law system has been broken, allowing terrorists to benefit from the loophole of legislation. The fact that a terrorist in our current legal order is on trial without arrest and carried out a live bomb attack in the Security Park is a key proof of how many people we are in our words. Members of lawmakers, in order to truly fight terrorism, sincerity is essential. This is also a sign of intimacy, a deterrent and preventive legal arrangement against terrorism. Our laws on terrorist crimes are disorganized, affordable for arbitrary implementation. Laws on the subject must be adopted under one basic law. There is an urgent need for a new anti-terrorism law that the government can use in any period and against any kind of terror. In addition, this law must be organised to provide sufficient power, efficiency, and power to the police, Turkish Armed Forces and Turkish judiciary in fighting terrorism. Since terrorist crimes are crimes committed in extraordinary situations, other than the usual circumstances, they should be punished by specific regulations and should not have jurisdictions intertwined with the usual period. The discrepancy between the Anti-Terror Law and the Turkish Penal Code must be resolved, including crimes committed through the media and the situation of juvenile offenders. The Anti-Terror Act 3713 is usually prepared against terrorism in rural areas in 1991, and must be reorganised in the city centers to provide a wide range of means to combat terrorist supporters with qualified and university graduates, qualified and a certain income. Some new terrorist crimes must be added to the law. Many crimes committed in one law must be organized separately and thus made clear to the law. In the event of a crime being committed for terrorism, the limits of punishment should be increased, at which point the extent of the discretion granted to judges must be reconsidered. The publication of public officials who have become the target of terrorist organisations due to their work has to be blocked -- in a way that no terrorist organization can target public officials. Since Article 10 of the Anti-Terror Law has been revoked, the reports include the names and registration numbers of police officers involved in the fight against terrorism. At this point, as in the past, public officials must be protected, not included in the open identities of the editors of the report. Special authorities, such as the state security courts established to prosecute crimes against the state, have been closed, so no special trial has been left to the authorities to make the trial. The biggest problem is that a state with a terror problem has traffic courts, while private government terror courts do not exist. A court's search or seizure decisions are not carried out throughout Turkey, since the general arrangements for the search, seizure, search of computer logs are not sufficient. At this point, the procedure must be waived from the state's attorney general's office or the procedure of the court. For example, in Ankara's bomb attack, even though the crime was committed in Ankara, all the evidence was linked to Gaziantep, the person who committed the crime and his contacts, and the search and seizure were not done quickly, and the perpetrators fled the country. In such cases and so on, legal arrangements are needed to ensure that the investigations into terrorist crimes can be conducted as quickly as possible. The general detention period is also implemented in terrorist crimes, which is usually not enough for the investigation of complex crimes such as terrorism. In terrorist crimes, detention times must be implemented at least half as high as the general procedure. Children who have been arrested for terrorism are often not arrested because the last clause of the Anti-Terror Law, Article 5 of Article 5 of the Anti-Terror Law, is being held in a way that cannot be implemented on children. It is important that terrorist organizations use children for this reason, since their detention period has been numbered for two days in one day and is not effective for children who commit terrorism. With a new regulation in the law, it is urgent that our children be prevented from becoming the target of the terrorist organization by preventing such setbacks. Since the criminal responsibility of corporate persons is limited to the security measure, terror crimes committed through corporate personalities must be recognised as a restraining order against the courts. In addition to the needs of all these amendments, if the real destruction of our country's troublesome terror is required, there should be a transparent and decisive anti-terrorism policy. Terrorist organisations must not be dealt with by side elements. Quality intelligence must be provided. Technological information and developments should be used against terrorist organizations. It is necessary to cooperate with the intelligence of other countries in the interest of our country. The quality of training of the police and the carabinieri must be increased. The powers of the law must be complete. The countries that support terrorism must be put under pressure. Military and armed forces must be used against the terrorist organisation's armed elements, providing sufficient propaganda for the fight against terrorism by providing information and persuasion. However, if these requirements are met, the results will be positive. The Turkish nation and the country's capital movement, the late Alparslan Turkesh, shall serve me long ago in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and within a year I shall root out this terror. Six months of preparation and six months of execution is sufficient. He expressed his expressions sincerely, with the love of his own country and with the importance of determination to fight terrorism. If he had that kind of authority, I don't think anyone would have suspected that he would've done what he said. Members of the government, let alone a year, you've been in power for 14 years, I ask all of you, what have you done but strengthen terror? What did you cause, beyond the fact that this holy nation received dozens of martyrs every day? How do you explain to yourself how many mothers shed tears every day when you were propaganda with their slogans when the mothers won the election? I'll tell you what you've done: you've made commercials with sacks of money, and you've made people watch it. You dropped the flag in a corner of my country, but you sent it to commercial films. You've made thousands of mothers cry in one corner of my country, but you've used our smiling mothers in commercials. You couldn't protect my soldier who stood guard in the corner of my homeland, but you made him watch the soldier figure who laughed and played in the commercials. Yes, you've never given these people peace and prosperity. You just made me watch. And by reminding you of the promise of the fish, you have not yet processed the immunity files of terror crimes pending within the Karma Commission. On March 3, 2016, the AKP's ruling closed its ears and ignored our right application. I repeat, Mr. Prime Minister is waiting for the Turkish Grand National Assembly to challenge him, not in front of the cameras, but to take an urgent step forward on the application for the processing of immunity files on terrorist crimes. Dear MPs, I would like to remind those in power and those who, despite the custom of not doing justice, the camel's tale of the Viceroy, which, as you know, one of the people of the Kufe. While walking through the streets of Damascus, someone approached him and said, "Give me that she-camel." Of course, the discussion grew, and the man who came from the city was mine, and he was not a female, but a male. But he did not agree. The matter was reflected in the deputy, and the people gathered in the square, and when he had listened to the deputy, and the Indian who had taken possession of the camel in Damascus, he said: "This she-camel belongs to Damascus." Then, when he returned to the gatherings and asked, O congregation, who is this she-camel? The congregation cried out together: "This is the she-camel of Damascus. Tell Ali what you have seen when you return to Kûfe; and when you look after the she-camel in a daze after its camel, the deputy calls to him, saying: "O Küfeli, listen, we know that this camel is yours, and this she is not yours, and this she is yours; but when you return to Kûfe, tell him what you have seen, O Ali. The court does not belong to the court. One day, those who commit injustices will come down from their seats and will answer for their injustice. When that day comes, there must be no loss of justice, no loss of justice, and no loss of justice, no loss of thought, and ears. Members of parliament, as a result, it is necessary to express that HDP's request for a gene is, in a nutshell, unacceptable because of its approach to terrorism? In our view, if a gene is to be given, why can't terrorism be fought enough? A gene should be given. With these thoughts, I salute the Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation once again, in the 19th anniversary of his death, our late Prime Minister Alparslan Türkesh Bey and all our martyrs through him, with respect, mercy, and thanks to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0053par0475	Thank you, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0054par0476	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0053par0477	On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Coral Danış Beştaş, Adana MP, but without inviting Mr. Danış Beştaş, Mr. Demirel stood up. I'm listening, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0054par0479	In his speech earlier, the HDP announced that this motion as our group had an ulterior motive. That's why I'm demanding word for bullying.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0053par0480	Mr. Demirel, I don't see this as a taunt, but as a political evaluation. Now, your spokesman will come forward, speak his mind. If you'd like, I can promise you from your position according to the 60th article, but it's not true, sir, if we consider every political criticism a taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0054par0481	Mr. President has already stated that he finds the motion unacceptable...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0055par0482	He's mean...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0054par0483	He's already expressed his views on this issue, and there's no mention of his political opinion or refusal, but as an ulterior motive...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0055par0484	It's an art-intentioned taunt, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0056par0485	You see the word "art intent" as teasing.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0054par0486	Yes, I'm referring to the use of the proprietary intent as a taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0056par0487	Here you are, Mr. Ironel. Because of the intention, that word, because of that sign, I promise you for two minutes not to be bullied again.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0054par0491	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, now you may not accept the motion, you may have criticisms, you may have evaluations, it's quite natural in this Parliament, but it's not right and it's not acceptable to state that this was given in the name of ulterior motives. We all live in Turkey, and in a country where justice has been brought down, there is no more natural situation than making a motion to make a motion to ask about the Minister of Justice, because we know very clearly that everything we step into in the country we live in faces illegal practices, arbitrary practices. Yes, in a process when the judiciary becomes political and the judiciary is used as a pleasure, it's a situation where the Minister of Justice has to be evaluated, and that's what we're considering in the General Assembly today. We don't know which one to sing, and the speakers will speak on behalf of our party. But let's make it very clear that the Minister of Justice is taking everything in this country in an arbitrary way, even the legal aspects that we criticize, and we're dealing with an application that falls behind them in Turkey against many cases that we criticize even the law. The state of the prisons is still dealing with arbitrary practices that have not been sent to the Forensic Medical Association of the people who have lost their lives, whether we tell the public, the families, the judges, the approaches to reduced sentences, the rights violations in prisons, the rights violations, the rights violations of prisons, the rape, corruption, but should we express the academics who have been sentenced to propaganda for freedom of thought, freedom of expression? I'm saying it's really not going to take time to express it all here. I'd like to say once again that we support this gene. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0057par0499	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0058par0501	Mr. Parsak will make a brief statement from his location.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0057par0502	Here you go. I'll turn on your mic.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0059par0505	Sir, thank you. We, the National Movement Party, have shared our assessments within the framework of our own policies, with the Gazi Parliament and with the great Turkish nation. We insist on our assessments and our approaches. In this frame, I felt the need to express it in terms of the transcripts. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0060par0508	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0061par0515	Mr. President, thank you. I salute the House. Actually, before I start talking, I want to tell you why we're interviewing this gene before Monday. The fact that it's being brought to Monday is a grave suspicion, rather than suspicion, because today there's no Parliament broadcast, and our people will not be able to listen to what we're going to talk about, their views, their views, these injustices and illegalities, at least alive. Of course, there are other reasons, but this is confidential from the public, and I would like to point out that the right of public information to learn about what is happening in the country has been eliminated once again by the power of the people. Now, as it's known, today we're discussing a motion to ask about the Minister of Justice. Well, really, is there a Minister of Justice in this country? Where? I mean, we'll discuss it. As of last May, our country has been rocked by bombs, the ground has been moving. Hundreds of people die in massacres. But, with all this going on, we don't actually see the Minister of Justice anywhere. Let's not be unfair, but let's hand it over. Mr. President, I'll only remain silent about the Constitutional Court's decision, that's all, but I don't have to accept it. I don't obey the decision, and I don't respect it. After what he said, we saw Mr. Bozdağ right behind the President, not at all, not at his side, not at his back. But, as I said in the beginning, no hand in our country has ever been seen anywhere in need. And Mr. Minister of Justice, after the President's words that directly influence the judiciary, instruct and threaten the judiciary, the president has freedom of thought and expression, just like everyone else. I can say, really. Moreover, as a Minister of Justice, he himself criticised the Constitutional Court's decision, expressing that it was justified. In fact, he's right, no one in this country has freedom of thought and expression. The President does, but the President can say anything, instruct anyone, design the judiciary, put a job in front of the House. But when political parties express their views in their field, when they do politics, freedom of opinion and expression in this country will be wiped out by threats of prosecution, arrests, detention. In fact, the Minister of Justice's statement that the president's statement, which says only this statement, that it is part of freedom of thought and expression, has never held the title of the Ministry of Justice, has no knowledge of justice, and I do not recognize the decision of the Constitutional Court, no matter where it is in the world. A president's statement, not under the freedom of thought and expression, reveals that he views himself directly as one person and one person. Now, I mean, there's so much law and injustice that I don't know which one to say. Let's say it in headlines. Mr. Ocalan, who has shown tremendous patience and endurance to truly establish peace in the process of resolving the future and peace of this country, is now in isolation. Tomorrow's a year, a year. After April 5th, the isolation of Mr. Ocalan was aggravated. Well, why? Because the ruling party and the palace and, of course, the Minister of Justice ended the process with that isolation decision, one of the decisions that ended it. Why, can they put him on lockdown? No. Can they apply it according to the Penal Code? No. According to the Turkish Penal Code, is there a place for this isolation, according to relevant legislation, regulations, and the European Convention on Human Rights? Absolutely not. This isolation decision is still being carried out as a completely illegal, completely arbitrary decision, accompanied by the war resolution. In this regard, the two prisoners who were with him were taken to Silivri, and they are now in isolation. In this regard, now the Kurdish people, the people of Turkey, the government and the Justice Minister who want peace, the peace, the continuation of the solution process, are being carried out in a completely arbitrary manner in a field that is subject to serious criticism of everyone at both national and international levels, and when the solution process is over, the lockdown can never be explained by law, by law, by law, and by contract. The other thing is, it's a matter of sick prisoners. In parallel with isolation, they leave today during the solution process, leaving tomorrow. We've made this change, and it's going to be like this. Over 700 patients are now being deliberately and deliberately killed in what they call the area. In the grip of death, in prison conditions, but isolated, but isolated, preventing the rights of treatment, with changes the Department of Justice has not made, with instructions, sick prisoners continue to be killed day by day, left for dead. Now, the ME's office. The Coroner's Office, of course, is the back yard of political power. From the time of the diagnosis of the sick prisoners, from the period of the report to the autopsy, the Forensic Medical Association has signed the most brutal decisions concerning the mental condition of the rape victim children. So what is it? Backyard, of course, and it stands before us as an institution that's always next to power. And once again, in order for the justice system to show how corrupt its wheels are, we would like to say that we really need to follow the Forensic Medical Association very carefully and very carefully. There is also a change in the Forensic Medicine Administration on 16 January 2016 regarding the bodies, the funerals. Through funerals and corpses, the Department of Justice and the government have come to an incredibly ugly stage of war against the public. This regulation decree: bodies will be handed over directly to the management of property to be buried if the public order can be corrupted or assessed by the manager of the property in which the body can be submitted or buried. Such a document cannot be handed over to the legal authority. It's a change that takes away the rights of families to bury their own children, their own brothers, their wives' funerals, and it's being raised today through funerals. Already, 80 funeral families have been buried without notice, and families are visiting the province giving blood samples to identify their children's bodies. Funerals currently in Tyre... have been given DNA samples for 20 days since March 14th, blood samples. Parents started fasting for death, and you know what they want? Let's get these DNA samples to Forensics, find out if they're our kids so we can bury them, use our burial rights. Now I'm going to make sure that... I mean, even torture is really too light. I don't suppose there's any explanation for the unjust killing, the courage to bury the bodies after a massacre and not even send DNA samples. Funerals continue to be one of the darkest pages in the history of Turkey. Now, the funerals are being robbed and exposed, the women's bodies... we've said that a lot from here, so don't go into detail. This is the activities of this era again. Again, autopsy procedures... no lawyers are allowed to perform autopsies in Silvio, Cizre, no forensic experts are taken. We're looking for the Minister of Justice, and he says, "Can lawyers enter the autopsy?" He doesn't know the law, he doesn't know the truth, he doesn't know the justice! The Minister of Justice is in charge of establishing the justice of this country, and it's really pathetic. Of course, the live bombs, the investigations that started as a result of these bombs, the case files that killed hundreds, thousands of people... again in Suruç, Ankara and other massacres, what did the investigation authorities do, the judiciary? Nothing. It has been decided by Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office that some of them have lost their lives because they were gased in the Ankara massacre and were taken too late. But in other matters, prosecutors are very hardworking in cases where hundreds of people have been massacred, prosecutors don't move their hair because the order is reversed in the massacres, because of the accusations of insulting the presidency -- but from the class, but from the school, but from the house, but from the middle of the night, because of a Facebook message. There's still a confidentiality order in Suruç. Dear friends, the decision of secrecy is not to conceal the perpetrator, but to expose the perpetrator; it is to force the investigation to eliminate all evidence. Again, we have repeatedly expressed from this platform that the decisions made on curfews have nothing to do with law, legislation, contract, decisions, and there is a Minister of Justice defending it. In the case of the Tahir Elçi, we made a motion to investigate, and in one sentence, what did the lynchers do to Tahir Elçi? They rushed him from the bar room, from the legal aid office, to Istanbul to take his statement, but they continue to protect the people who killed Tahir Eluş. When there is a speech, immediately the prosecutors who are motivated and instructed to be present are standing by immediately, but after the murder, the perpetrators of the Tahir Evot -- at the moment -- the Minister of Justice and the government continue to hide the perpetrators; they are responsible. I'm just giving examples of the painting, of the academics, of the painting: currently four academics are still in prison; Coral Camcı, Elvira Munchan, Kıvanç Ersoy, Muzaffer Kaya. Why? They're not arrested for doing anything, they're not for saying a word, they're for not saying a word. I mean, in this country, there's a lot of interesting criminal types in the history of law, not that it's a crime. Why didn't you condemn the PKK? Does it have to be condemned? What's it to you? He says, "We will not be a party to this crime in the face of the massacres. " The instructions for academics were given by the President, followed by a witch hunt, and are currently being tried to threaten an entire society, the academic world, scientists, through academics. But, of course, they'll be the losers, so we'll see about that as soon as possible, no doubt about it. Again, December 17th and 25th, there's been a lot of talk about it. The only thing I can tell you about December 17-25 is that children are being punished for stealing bread in this country for stealing cake or small thefts -- whether the key is broken or not -- for decades -- five years, ten years -- because they steal bread in this country. But in grand thefts, especially if the government is the perpetrator of these thefts, what do we do in this country if they're protected? The law will be changed, the court will be lifted, the new court will be set up, the prosecutor who opened the investigation will either be arrested, fired, or transferred. On December 17th and 25th, when against the government, Turkey and the world watched by example step by step how they were truly competent -- let's hand over their rights -- how they made their decision to avoid stalking and their so-called exoneration. I'm not going to get into the issues, but I mean, we're not going to go through the immunity... We really think the Minister of Justice's speeches are unfortunate again. He's the one who's standing behind him saying yes to theft, fraud, all kinds of corruption, and he's trying to lead someone through pressure, but we don't give a damn, because of the arguments that we've made, that we've done politics, that we've defended democracy, that they're a threat to themselves. We know what we're saying, we know what we're defending, and we have no doubt that democracy will come to this country with our words and our struggle. Of course, the changes in the duties of judges and prosecutors, the allegations of bribery, which court should be dropped, who's close to the AKP, who's against, the chips, they're going around. I met a prosecutor on a plane, and I don't want to name him, of course, he'll be arrested or killed. He says that after December 17th-25th, they came to HSYK and took us to the buses. Is there such a thing? They took the buses and the prosecutors to camp after the amendment. The prosecutor says it's the only thing in my life I won't forget. Let's not be dismissed, but I can't bear to be rushed on a bus and sent there with the Ministry of Justice.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0062par0536	He's lying.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0061par0537	I want to tell you his name, but I have to protect him.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0062par0538	And don't tell me his name. Nobody's lying.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0061par0539	He's not lying.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0062par0540	Nobody's lying.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0061par0541	I'm not going to go to any private court or anything, but I'm running out of time with the lines. There's really no justice in this country -- I'm not arguing about it -- but for someone, they keep building justice for themselves. The ISIS people are allowed to commit all kinds of crimes. In the main case against ISIS last week, in the case of the construction in Turkey -- we have said again from here -- all arrested defendants were released during the fourth hearing of the 96 defendants. ▪ LIGHTISTS can drop bombs easily now. This is the decision. We're behind you. Our support wasn't enough, and we did this investigation unfairly. We're sorry. It's a statement. But, on the other hand, the operations against democratic opposition, democratic forces, media organs, journalists, academics, students, women, and, of course, our party's liquidation operations, political genocide operations are being carried out without slowing down. Now, in this period, the judiciary has been transformed into an instrument used by the Minister of Justice and those who have given him instructions to eliminate any opposition. Only crime against the government can be committed, another crime cannot be committed. There is such a perception, and indeed all other crimes remain unpunished. And even stranger, we met something called "conjunctural crime" as lawyers. We're going to ask our college teachers today -- so we're asking every day -- what's a conjunctural crime? In the circumstances of that day, who's a terrorist organization? It's really weird. Mr. Minister of Justice has begun erasing his tweets today. Fethullah Gulen was not a terrorist at the time of the conjunctural launch, and he had no organization, but now he has been declared a terrorist organization. ASALA is the new terrorist group again. I don't know, other terrorist organizations were invented. What's this? We're dealing with the invention of conjunctural terrorist organizations in the period. Mr. Minister of Justice -- we don't know who entered the tweets, we suggest who wrote them, but we recommend the investigation -- and it's a very heavy tweet, and he says: "We're following these people in the archives, and we're following them like we're tweeting." So we're waiting for an explanation from him: "It wasn't a terrorist organization at the time, but now that we've decided, the laws will change according to this, so I have to delete the tweets. " Again, I just want to remember Joseph Yerkel, who was kicking and kicking in Soma. Crimes against workers are also punishable, crimes against women are not punishable, abuse cases are not punished, massacre cases are not punished. In the 1990s, there was only injustice in unsolved murders, and now, the AKP's ruling and the Justice Minister do not feel responsible only for clearing this period, they continue to protect crimes committed in the 1990s, plus crimes committed during their time in their own time with a total lack of punishment. The fact that the verdicts of acquittal are being made quickly makes that clear. I mean, it's free to kill people, it's free to burn, it's free to smash, it's free to torture funerals, it's free to kill babies -- but it's a crime to talk to the President, the Minister of Justice comes right out of his back. So, as a result, Mr. Minister of Justice, your name will really go down in history as a black page, and Mahmoud Assad Bozkurt will probably turn over in his grave after you. You've actually signed a period where there's no justice in this country, no justice in this country, and all the citizens of the world and Turkey see it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, that's the gist of it. In the final sentence, I'd like to say a word from Montesquieu. Time's up, but...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0063par0549	Here, I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0061par0550	When a regime becomes unbelief in justice, the regime is condemned, and right now in our country, faith in justice and trust are at its lowest, because injustice is at its peak. Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0063par0553	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bulent Tezcan, Aydın MP. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've got 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0064par0558	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, first, if you'll excuse me, I have to share a situation. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a genus culture, it needs to be a genus culture. The gene is one of the Council's most important control mechanisms, and one of the most important methods controlled by government members, controlled by law, controlled by governance. We're not the ones giving the gene, and we're not the ones dealing with it, but I'm looking at the ranks of the Grand National Assembly, particularly the ruling wing of Turkey -- our fellow lawmakers are not even present and listening. What kind of a thing is that, I offer it to your appreciation? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, before we begin to talk, one more thing should be highlighted. While the speaker was speaking here earlier, Mr. Bekir Bozkurt, the minister of justice who was given the geneor, was unaware of a comparison between the late Minister of Justice and Mr. Mahmut Assat Bozkurt, and he said that even Mahmut Esat Bozkurt would turn in his grave. Mahmoud Assad Bozkurt is one of the most important states in the creation of a modern Turkish Republic based on the basis of the legal state by bringing modern-day Civil Law to Turkey, and we certainly don't find such comparison right. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, Mr. Minister of Justice Bekir, we're discussing the general question regarding Bozdağ. The definition of the problem from our point of view is very clear and clear. The problem with our window is that politics intervenes in the judiciary; the problem with our window is that politics gives orders to the judiciary; the problem with our window is the issue of independent judiciary. We're looking through this window, and unfortunately, during the AKP administration period, including the Minister's term and previous periods, Turkey is going through a period in which, one way or another, the judiciary is under the jurisdiction of politics. It doesn't matter, actors change, but it's the same problem. That's what the community's judgment was doing yesterday, the alliance of the government and the congregation, the ruling bloc, was controlling the judiciary in this way; today, the block fell apart, the conflict began, and today the government's judgment. It's the same painting. Today, we're dealing with a painting, like a boatman's quarrel, or, for some reason, that puts the same understanding under the control of politics and destroys the judiciary. Now, Mr. Secretary deleted his tweets, deleted the tweets because he couldn't account for the previous term. Dear friends, would you look at this? There's a Minister of Justice who says, "Stife," and has to erase it, and if justice can't reveal it in that country, that's just an indication of how well the minister of justice has been treated. What will the citizen do if the Minister of Justice is in this situation? What will the citizen do in this misery? Look, there are other statements to this failure. You know, I told you, the actors are changing, the problem is the same problem. Aren't you the one who fed and raised that terrorist organization? Aren't you the one who put that terrorist organization all over the state? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, look, March 25, 2011. I'm going to read a passage to you, and listen carefully: "Fethullah Gulen is a precious asset that this country has raised. You don't like him, but he's a valuable man, a wise man. He serves to bring up generations of national and spiritual values in this country. Everything is open, under the supervision of the state, and everything is done in plain view. What does he say: "Everything is open, under the supervision of the state, and where is this conversation being held?" It is held on the bench at the Turkish Grand National Assembly in 2011. What's it about? When the book of the Imam's Army of Ahmet Şık is published, the arrests on that book are being made during discussion. Who's doing the talking? The speaker is Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ, the Deputy Chairman of the Justice and Development Party of the period. Here's to you a partnership of the congregation and the government. So now, you're going to say... yes, that's right, everything was done in front of the government, everything was made clear in front of the government. The argument is that there is a community organisation within the judiciary. It says that the Republican People's Party MP, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, has left this bench at that time, has agreed to place this alliance in front of the state. Dear friends, this is the main problem today. See, the 138th article of the Constitution is clear, what it says: no body, authority, authority cannot command and instruct the judiciary; again, the 138th article: ▪Yamma and executive bodies must obey the court's decisions. I mean, you, me, the other, the President, the government is separate, the Prime Minister says, the Ministry of Justice is separate, and everyone will obey. Now, it's an article by the Secretary-General of the Presidential Office, which has been declared to you. Who'd he write to? He wrote to the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. What's he saying? Due to a news report on the real Agenda website, notice that the legal action against the responsible is to inform us immediately of the outcome.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0065par0568	There's a direct order.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0064par0569	Who's singing? The President's Secretary-General speaks for the President. Who's he talking to? Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. Isn't that the direct order in Article 138 of the Constitution? What else does he have to say to get instructions? Look, dear friends, you all know the verdict of Can Dündar and Erdem Gül, a wrongful arrest. The Constitutional Court has ruled that the fundamental issue of the Constitutional Court has been violated: One, freedom of thought and expression; two, freedom of the press has been violated. The president is the head of the executive body. He says, "The president and the government form governance." The Constitution says, "You will obey; I will not sleep." Not enough, he says to the court: "You also oppose it." There is a President who urges the court to go to the Supreme Court's decision, to revolt, to violate the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0065par0571	What's the Minister of Justice doing?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0064par0572	Now, look at the climate in Turkey as a result of these explicit instructions against the Constitutional Court, Article 153, Article 138, and Article 138: There was a trial on Friday, and the court correctly followed the Constitutional Court's decision, and decided to evacuate. On Friday, all of Turkey opened its eyes, opened its ears, carefully watched the trial. You know why? I wonder if there could be an arrest despite the Supreme Court's ruling. Even this is a disgrace in terms of Turkish law, in terms of the Turkish judiciary, without arrests, in itself, an embarrassment! Is it possible to talk about the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, my friends, my fellow parliamentarians who are responsible for maintaining the rule of law in Turkey? Look, from God, independent court, Ankara 14. The High Criminal Court has turned a deaf ear to these suggestions, and it did not comply with the President's provocations, incentives, and stimuli, but there was someone else who responded to them; it was very interesting. The court did not comply, it was correct, but it was wrong of the President's Constitutional Court to say, "Don't obey it." Unfortunately, the Minister of Justice is a satellite, Minister of Justice. Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, who is head of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, as well as head of the Judiciary Organization, has been appointed Minister of Justice, who is also under the Constitutional obligation to maintain judicial independence, as well as head of the HSYK, said the Court has exceeded its authority. This means one thing, my friends, if he is also the President of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, and he is also a natural member of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors, there is only one expression: to strengthen his commitment to the court; to encourage the president and the Supreme Court to rebel and violate its ruling. What kind of Minister of Justice would that be? What kind of legal system is that? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, dear friends, of course, the Minister has a bad record on this matter, it's not a new job. He's got a habit of, you know, getting used to something, you know, bad habits, the Minister's got a habit of interfering with the judiciary. How do we know that? We know that from December 17th to 25th investigations. There's a minister, a minister of justice, who has two arguments about him, as well as arguments, not other arguments -- and there's another one -- a minister who has two arguments about interference in the judiciary, two of them. This one is dated January 7, 2014. During a gang and corruption investigation in İzmir, İzmir Chief Prosecutor Hüseyin calls there and says, "Change the prosecutor, take this investigation away from that prosecutor." He says, "Minister, this Minister says, "Take the prosecutor from the beginning of this investigation." He says, "This is one." It's not over... Second: The same Minister -- again the second trial -- on 1 January 2014, when Adana MIT trucks were afraid of the investigation of these MIT trucks, they arrest the journalist, they instruct the prosecutor -- calls Prosecutor Süleyman Arriyanık, he calls the prosecutor, says, "Change this prosecutor, change the prosecutor's prosecutor." He's got a bad record, obviously, a bad record. And now I'm going to read you another passage. A Minister of Justice who says, "Take the defenders out of the office." Write it down, and it will be on the sidelines. Watch out for the passage I'm going to read now. On March 30, 2011, during the relocation of Ergenekon Prosecutor Zechariah Öz. Someone says something, and I'll read it, and be careful: I'm uncomfortable as a lawyer. About the ongoing cases, if the prosecutor doesn't have an alibi, if he doesn't have an alibi, if he doesn't have one, it affects the case, it means intervention in the process. I'm against changing prosecutors. This means intervention in the process. Who says that? Today's Minister of Justice, Bekir Bozdağ. Mr. Secretary, find a way, make a point; if a snake goes after you, it won't follow you, it'll break your back. (CHEERING) Yesterday you said that, today you said that; which is true and which is true? Dear friends, now, in such a time as this, the Justice Department allows us to investigate all of them, no matter how many cases come before him for insulting the President. Article 299 of the Turkish Penal Code organises an insult to the President. So far, he's authorized 1,584 investigations. According to Article 299, the investigation depends on the permission of the Minister of Justice, which is under the permission of Mr. Bekir Bozdağ. It depends on the Minister's permission to be investigated, sued for this, prosecuted for this. Now, the 299th article of the Turkish Penal Code is open; it is a special offense to protect the neutral President described in the Constitution. There's a general insult, when you're insulted by me, by someone else, and there's a special insult. The presidents are neutral there, not in the debate, not on the political side, not dealing with the citizen, everyone becomes president, embraces everyone. So, since he can't answer, and he can't answer the insults against himself in a polemic way, let's organize the insult against the president separately, let's punish him more severely, let's subject him to a special status. The law says. Who? This is Parliament. This Parliament has brought out the Penal Code and has organized 299. Well, in the painting we came from, 299 is now a crime that can't be committed. Why? Because he doesn't exist. There's no president who doesn't agree with the debate, who doesn't mess with the nation. Look, we have a president who believes he has the privilege of committing a crime. He believes he has the privilege of committing a crime for himself. I'm not making this up myself, his own statement says: "You can't judge me." Would a president say that? You can only judge me by the votes of three quarters of the Assembly for treason. I do what I want. He says. So it says: I'll use the immunity as armor, I'll do everything, whether it suits the president or not. There's a painting like this now. Now it's okay to just say it, but it says something else, it says: "This Constitution doesn't apply to me." It says, "It's time to put it in its name." So there's a president talking about a civilian coup. The regime has actually changed, so let's call it what it says. It says, "I am not bound by the Constitution." It says, "The judge is a liability to me." What else does it say? I do not abide by the Constitutional Court's decree, and do not obey it, judge, the court says. What else does it say? If you agree with the content, you don't participate, the academics sign a statement, express their opinion. You're a traitor to the state. A president who went into polemics with academics is a law order where academics are arrested behind his word. They will answer for the journalists of the Dot magazine. A President who says, "They will answer." Can Dündar and Erdem Gül have been asked to intervene in the case of the President who has filed a complaint... Dear friends, now, which one shall we count? Three academics are now under arrest; Kıvanç Ersoy, Esmeralda Munchan, Muzaffer Kaya. Only because they signed a memo. There was one more time in our history when we had a petition for the apostles, you remember. At that time, the President was Kenan Evren the coupger; even then the intellectuals were not arrested; they are being arrested today for signing; come and do the comparison. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, in this painting, the crime of insulting the President has become an unresolved crime because the President has become an active actor of politics, a president who struggles with everyone. Mr. Minister of Justice, in what conscience did you grant 1,584 investigation permits in such a painting? What thought did you give it to him? What lawman did you give it to? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, in this painting, Mr. Secretary, he called it "protecting the President and not the law." Our view of the matter is within that framework. Now there's an operation against the Versus newspaper. This operation started because of the news in the newspaper. We're in a Turkey painting like this. There is a Minister of Justice who is incapable of upholding the law, who considers the law of the President superior to the law of the nation and acts under orders. So we're going to say yes to this gene. Thank you all, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0066par0593	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0067par0594	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0066par0595	Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0067par0596	Mr. Orator, I'm not sure I'm...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0068par0597	Leaks and dawdles...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0066par0598	Here you go, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I give you my word under Article 69.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0069par0603	Mr. President, I've heard the secretary accused me of being careless. Let me read a sentence or two, and we'll discuss which one of us is off the hook. Turk is the sole master of this country, the sole owner. Those who are not of pure Turkish descent have only one right in this country: the right to be a servant, the right to be a slave. Let friends and enemies and even mountains know this truth. - Mahmoud Assad Bozkurt. The worst of Turkey is better than the best of non-Turkish. There are many more words. You can support the owner of these words, you can be proud, you can stand behind them, but the owner of those words has a racist and fascist mentality for us. It does not change the fact that the Law of Civil Law is taking advantage of Switzerland or doing different things. So, frankly, I must say I'm surprised that Mahmoud Assad Bozkurt is being supported today by the Republican People's Party MPs and his spokesman with such an appetite. But let me tell you this: be truly proud, and may this be your glory, and blessed be Mahmoud Assad Bozkurt, but we will continue to be ashamed of the words of Mahmoud Assad Bozkurt. Because not only the Turks in this country, the Lazlar, the Armenians, the Circes, the Nusayris, the Arabs, many ethnic identities, the people live together, and the most important basis for them to live together, equal, free, and sisterly, is pluralism. We leave you alone with Mahmoud Assad Bozkurt. You guys just keep supporting it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0070par0607	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. Mr. Tezcan...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0071par0609	Mr. President, he has made an accusation about Mahmut Assat Bozkurt, the skullist, the racist, and that we are in the same frame. I'm asking for a say in bullying.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0072par0610	Be proud. He said.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0073par0611	I said be proud, I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0074par0612	Here you go, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0075par0615	Dear friends, we have no intention of entering a special pollen. History knows everything. How Turkey has brought to this day the struggle to survive with the awareness of what tremors and what nation to come out of, and what challenges it has brought to this day, and what challenges it's facing today, everyone knows that. Historically, the assessment of historians is separate, but the politician needs to know that Mahmoud Assat Bozkurt is one of the key figures of Turkish enlightenment, an important politician who laid the foundations of the Republic of Turkey, where he, as Minister of Justice, brought the Civil Law to Turkey in 1926, gave him the right to speak from this stand. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And another important point: Mahmoud Assat Bozkurt, a member of the Republican People's Party, led by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, is that understanding... there is no ethnic emphasis on nationalism, there is no faith, there is no religious emphasis. He described a nation in the unity of everyone who lives in this geography. If we remember that recipe, we can solve the fundamental problems of Turkey today. I felt the need to get back on the stand to explain all this. Thank you all, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit01spe0076par0621	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0076par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 66th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (11/3) We will continue talks on whether or not the primary Gensorial Introduction (11/3) should be taken into consideration. The government is in place. Mr. Bostanci, I see you've entered the system, I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0077par0011	Mr. President, thank you. I don't know if I have to keep your name in mind as if it were a myth. Friends will remember this poem by Attila Ilhan. It also reminded me of the poem of Attila Ilhan. He kept his speech very broad for the President, and I understood that Mr. Tezcan keeps his mind in mind like Mr. Tezcan ikh, which, of course, is normal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] But the important thing is that criticism of Mr. President can be expressed, of course, but whatever he said can be expressed in the context of what he said and the way he said it. First of all, he didn't follow this basic rule, so he did some very enjoyable quotes. As they say, to bring the ball into the penalty position, he expressed his own criticism after some kind of engineering, workmanship, and at the pleasure of editing the statement. That's not going to help politics, let me make it clear. Second, we're having a gene interview. The person given the gene is a minister of the Republic of Turkey. When it comes to his work, actions, activities, criticism is expressed within a fundamental language and style. In a way that goes beyond that, personal inquiry and thesis are not true. For example, if a snake were to come after you, the snake would break its back. So perhaps Mr. Bulent wanted to give his speech a -- if necessary -- a taste of a lecture, as in the joke, but in this language, the meaning of the generic talks, and the respect of all of us to the state and to the nation, the people who came to certain authorities at the end of his will -- and respect for them is also self-respect, so let's not forget -- is out of respect. I've been promised that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0078par0018	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Sky, I see you have a request. I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0079par0023	Sir, when Mr. Bostanci started his speech, I think the poetry lines of Attila Ilhan. Because, as he has already made a statement, the AKP Group-Bakhan-President-President-President has continued to maintain an understanding of a co-existence, which Mr. Minister must answer to, and the AKP deputy leader has shown again how much they are obliged to each other by feeling that he needs to give an answer. We're interviewing a gene. It's about justice. Why is it uncomfortable that the concept of justice is given here in Turkey with striking examples of how much it has been emptied? Of course, one of Turkey's biggest problems is the President's destruction of Turkish politics and the concept of justice. The President says something, and an hour later, Mr. Attorney General repeats it. Mr. Minister of Justice's spokesman? It is up to the Minister of Justice to ensure the independence of justice and to raise his dignity. Of course, complaints and austerities on this subject have become so unfairly applied that our speaker here has voiced a very justified cry for Turkey. Don't let anyone feel uncomfortable about it. Every subject, every speech, every word is documented. Of course, Mr. Minister will answer that, and we're wondering what he'll actually say, but I'm forced to do that. In his understanding, it's probably not up to the AKP to defend the Minister. My respects.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0080par0026	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Ardahan MP Orhan Atalay. Here you go, Mr. Atalay. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0081par0034	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on behalf of Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, the Minister of Justice of HDP (HDP). I salute your esteemed delegation. Dear friends, it's very easy to talk about the history of the judiciary in particular in Turkey, because in our 90-year history, there is a very broad literature that compels us to talk about justice. But when you talk about the Turkish judicial system in a way, there's still a lot to talk about the judiciary, even when you look at it in terms of rights and freedoms, democracy, national will, the need for solutions to basic social problems. It is hard to imagine that the Republican People's Party would not know that the party, which should be silenced when it comes to judgment, is the party that is supposed to be held down, as if it did not have a shred of information about its history. Because from the early years of the republic, the seeds of many problems in Turkey -- including this issue -- have been planted during the 27 years of Republican People's Party's ruling, most of them to eliminate the destruction created by toxic foods in this society, the EC PARTI, since 2002, is indeed going to pass as the dawn of history, to build the next thousand years of this nation on solid ground, to solidify its foundations. Since 2002, the EC PARTY has been the name of a time in this country, which has not only led to the economics of this country, but also to open the way for the people from the justice system to the outside policy, but also to make them meet their historical roots, in which they have established the unity of seeds that had been planted into solid depths a thousand years before the AK PARTI era, the law, the morality, and the future. Dear friends, when it comes to judgment, we immediately think of a court of honor. Isolation courts -- don't be fooled -- have basically done nothing but French revolutionary courts or Bolshevik revolutionary courts. As a matter of fact, it was a revolutionary court. It is the name of a court that has judged many of the commanders of the Salvation War, who took many of them at evening prayer and executed them before the morning prayer. I'm the Ardahan MP, and you can see both Major Hilmi Effendi of the 1st term and Halit Pasha of the 2nd term, in accordance with the legal criteria, how he executed the MPs, how he executed them, how he executed them, the library there, open and open and read where the country came from in the 90 years of judgment, and you can see it clearly and clearly. Rauf Orbay is one of the great pashas of the Supreme Court. Let's hear it for Erzurum Mebusu Hüseyin Avni Bey. Hussain Avni Bey was a really brave, open-minded, brave MP. Hüseyin Avni Bey is also tried in Elazig İstiklal Courts. When the court sentences him to a life sentence, he stands up: "This court has executed a very decent person. Did he see a flaw in our integrity that he did not hang us? He expressed his surprise and his cry. Jamal Kutay has become a full political institution between 1923 and 1927, making certain private thoughts and issues that cannot be expressed in the country's difficult and threatening placement, a device that strengthens and establishes the institutional institutions in the name of the faith, he says. This was the opinion of the Republican People's Party. The situation in Şark İstiklal Courts is worse. Let us listen to the late Abraham Arvas, former Van MP. Regarding the judgment, the judgment of the judicial courts, he says that no matter how many fathers and sons were convicted, he would have hanged his son before your father's eyes, and then he would have hanged the father. The cry of your father would not have touched their hearts, nor would it have touched them even as hard as an atom's weight. Dear friends, when we come to the May 27th coup, it is the will of Salim Başolal, the president of the Court of Yassia, who put you here. We keep the word in our historical depths, in our memories, as a nation. 12 Marta, the situation hasn't changed since we arrived. And I remind you of the famous saying of Ecevit: "The judicial body is in the hands of revolutionary, progressive elements." They saw their own future in the hands of the judge. And when we came to the coup d'état of September 12, it became a mechanism between 1974 and 1980, which, unfortunately, prevented Parliament from functioning as its original function, which made the environment ready for the coup. In his speech on October 3, 1984 -- remember -- are we not going to hang the traitors and feed them? Erdal Eren of the Left had not yet reached the 19th, that he had been executed, or that he himself had been killed, and that Mustafa Pehlivanoğlu had been hanged from the right by the judge's own confession. When he was found not guilty, the word, the news, the information reached Kenan Universe, and the information came to me, but it is too late, we cannot return from the execution, he said. We are ready to visit the Universe and fulfill your orders, sir, of the members of the High Judges and Prosecutors' Council. When the judgment comes to the 1989-1990s, the situation is fundamentally pathetic. He was vetoed to release his headmanship in the First Autonomous Government of 45, and the second amendment was passed during the Second Autonomous Government of 1988, but was cancelled by the Constitutional Court on the application of the Universe in 1989. The third law, which allowed the headscarf again in 1990, took it to the SHP Constitutional Court, and was rejected by the law. When we arrived in February 28th, especially with the fact that religious beliefs were a coup against free living, there were convictions that were often subject to disciplinary or administrative investigations. Responsibility to e-mutuals on April 7th was briefed by judges and prosecutors on buses, taken to chiefs of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, aside from reacting in the name of justice. They applauded their own teachers. As a matter of fact, Hasan Celal Güzel:, who are the most responsible for the last 50 years of coup? If you ask me a question, I will show you the judicial system in Turkey and its judges who have done the judicial work as a servant before the coupgers and the coup provocateurs. Dear friends, remember, in 2007, they asked for the number of 367 necessary for a sufficient number of decisions in the presidential election, and unfortunately the Constitutional Court signed under such a freak. That wasn't enough, the 411 MPs raised their hand to free their headscarf, and the Constitutional Court cancelled it. This is the case, my friends: Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's statement against the high judiciary says that Özyürek, the 411 MPs have merged, the Constitutional Court has changed a clause of the Constitutional Court but if 550 MPs are merged, the Constitutional Court will have to cancel the decision if it is wrongly decided. The Prime Minister must know this truth.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0082par0050	Orhan, why don't you come to the next question?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0081par0051	What is the difference between that mentality and that mentality, friends? There's no difference. The Constitutional Court will call it off even if 550 MPs change a Constitutional clause here. Dear friends, our friends who have a shred of legal knowledge, law formation, know until we reach our children in elementary school that the Constitutional Court has changed a Constitutional clause that 550 lawmakers have changed by the Constitutional Court, in its own capacity, in its form, in its form, in its form, in its form, in its form, in its form, in its form, in its form, in its form, in its form, in its form, in its form, in its form, then the Constitutional Court's decisions will probably be greeted as well as you, friends. As for the parallel structure, the February 7th crisis, the 17th and 25 December coup attempt, this time some judges were eager to throw away the national will on the judicial channel in Turkey, where they thought of the banana republic. The judgment of the revolutionaries in the 1970s was sought this time by parallelists seeking to form a state within the state. These too have considered the people's power of attorney to be virtuous, and have been struck by a political will of steel and shattered and disgraced.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0083par0054	You're making the wrong comparison, the wrong comparison! Don't equate the revolutionaries with the parallelists, Orhan!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0081par0055	Just like the work of the Aquif, the rebel, this hand of Ismehlal, the three or five fools who provoked you! / Why didn't you expect this wretched end? Like in the series, they've become everythreatening by crashing their own vile fates into strong political will, such as steel here. Dear friends, the position of the Minister of Justice has been criticised by the President's views on the Constitutional Court in the relevant gene question. Mr. President, for the first time in the history of the republic, a direct attack on our elected president, from outside and inside, is being carried out with stubbornness. When we look at the reasons for the outside attack, we see two reasons: one is drawn to Israel, the other is greater than five. The world is greater than five. However, all Middle Eastern people know that these five great men, who are also arms dealers, are as Ahmet Arif. As Ahmet Arifin said in his poem Adilosh Bebenin's lullaby: these are the Vipers and the cyclics / These are the ones who took care of our vaccine, our bread / Be aware of these. Yes, the people of the Middle East have recognized these five greats and the bravest of all five greats...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0084par0060	You're doing nine flips in front of Israel, and you're still saying, You've done nine flips against Israel! You have left no honor, no dignity...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0081par0061	... turned into a brave voice, the world is bigger than you. He told the world that they should be drawn into what is rightfully theirs. The second reason is that the inner cause, friends, is a great jealousy. It seems to me that it's not strange to be jealous of a man who formed a party in 2002 and came to power alone in 2003, who went before the people 10 times today and was at every time a great tribute to the public. Because jealousy is the greatest idol under the heavens, says the prophet. As a matter of fact, that sneaky, deep, powerful feeling that caused Cain, the son of Adam, to become the murderer of Abel, his brother, to throw Joseph into the well for the children of Jacob. It is possible to meet objections, criticisms in a democratic country, but if it were to refer to the president as an attack site, an assault platform, and an attack site, it would only be explained by this. So don't be jealous, guys. If you work, if you listen to the needs of the people, the wishes of the people, if you make peace with the past of this people, with the language of this people, with the history of this people, with the culture, with the perception of civilization...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0085par0064	You've always been pagans, pagans.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0081par0065	.... And if you give this trust to the public, the people will choose you, and they will make you president, and they will make you prime minister.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0085par0066	Don't be a pagan.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0081par0067	If you can't see your lack of self, your own shame, your own flaw, and you just shake it, know that this nation will not go astray from what it knows, that it has decided who to choose, that it will continue to stand behind what it decides. My dear friends, the third part of your gene question is about our Minister of Justice.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0086par0069	Finally you've come to the point, Orhan.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0081par0070	The HDP also knows that in the 1924s, there was a climate in the period beginning in the 1925s and leading to the AK PARTI administration that actually created what we call the Kurdish problem. A strong political leader, who says, "I am willing to drink and solve this problem, even if it is hemlock venom." And from the end of the 2012s, a new process of solutions began. Because when we looked at the events that happened before this process, it was said that it would only be handed over to the security bureaucracy, killed to death, never and never to the floor to attract this problem into a democratic, political area, from Ozal to Demirel, that there was a series of attempts made from Erdal Inön to other prime ministers, but unfortunately, it didn't succeed.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0087par0071	Don't forget Erdal Bey, Erdal Inön.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0081par0072	Dear friends, the thing that brought up the Kurdish problem was fundamentally the expression of the ancients,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, assimilation. During the 27 years of Republican People's Party's rule, he had a goal to assimilated Kurds; Ismet Inönu also said that, Nihat Erim said so, and Mahmut Assad Bozkurt, mentioned here earlier. There's no point in hiding it. At that time, anthropology was done, people's skulls were measured, but for the first time in the AK PARTY, we actually came up with the will to solve this problem in the context of basic human rights and freedoms and the basis.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0088par0073	What happened?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0081par0074	The solution process, as our Prime Minister said, was the greatest achievement of the last century in this geography.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0089par0075	What happened? What happened?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0081par0076	Today, it's the only way, and it's the only way. However, from the beginning, Kandil continued to poison this solution process.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0090par0077	You'd be ashamed. Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0081par0078	After the demonstrations of the Travel Park, Kandil and Travelers and international actors held hands and tried to overthrow the AK PARTI, again to transform this country into an Egypt, a Syria, an Iraq, but each time, as I said, this nation had chosen, the AK PARTI, which it had chosen, crashed into the steel will of the PARTI. Dear friends, I'm calling from here to the HDP: HDP has to stop being a political spokesman and listen to what the Kurdish people want. Kurdish people don't want self-government. There's no resistance here called public resistance. There is only one thing that the people want: in this geography it is the will to live with all their brothers and their brothers for a thousand years. All the Kurdish people want is for you not to tear down the houses of the people who voted for you. They want you to read the message. Kurdish people want peace, Kurdish people want peace. The Kurdish people want to live in their own language, in their own language, in their custom. The Kurdish people want the bandit, who turned their cities, ancient cities, into ruin, to disappear from their own people, their own lands, their own cities.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0091par0082	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Atalay, complete.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0081par0083	If we do our part in this House, if we can actually make a constitution like the man who can satisfy everyone's feelings of equality and justice, then we can solve these problems in a real way. Unless this is done, as long as we don't take advantage of it, unfortunately, those who come up here will continue to be the spokesman for Kandil. They will continue to speak for the terrorists there, and the martyrs will continue to come. That doesn't solve the problem. That's where the problem is, where the problem is; it's the middleman, it's the real politics. There's no other way than here and politics, my friends. Please, to understand this fact and contribute to a constitution that will lead to the future that history has imposed on us at this stage without running away from the table. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0091par0086	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0092par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0093par0088	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0091par0089	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0092par0090	Sir, in many parts of the speaker's speech, he has made unjust accusations against our group regarding the Republican People's Party. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0091par0091	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0092par0095	Mr. President, it's not surprising that the esteemed MPs, on behalf of the AKP Group, have divided the twenty-minute part of the speaker's twenty-minute speech into the Republican People's Party. We didn't expect anything different from the AKP Group, which was already dealing with its values, its founding values, but it's only possible for the AKP Group to attack the Republican People's Party from the genome given by HDP without mentioning the concepts of justice. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the speaker, say: "The seed of many issues has been thrown out by the People's Party of the Republic." Now, the speaker seems to have forgotten how the Republican People's Party has made a nation that is about to be destroyed, and how the Republic has established a nation that has been destroyed in the period it has turned from its past. The speaker seems to have forgotten the days when the Republican People's Party had fought against imperialism in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey, and in Turkey. You're looking at the current Turkish painting, Turkey's eastern and southeast circle of fire, which seems to have begun to divide between Turks and Kurds, and the speaker is taking it upon himself. Shame on you! (HPP) You are responsible for the martyrs in this painting that Turkey has come to. Turkey has been having zero problems with its neighbours, and has now become a country with problems with all its neighbours. You forgot the sultan in the dorm, the sultan in the den. You're trying to divide, divide Turkey by all the innovations brought by the Republican People's Party in Turkey. The Republican People's Party won't give you a chance. That's why you're always yelling at the Republican People's Party, but the Republican People's Party is all around you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0094par0099	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0095par0100	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0096par0101	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0094par0102	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0095par0103	Mr. President, the speaker speaking on behalf of the AKP Group has accused us of being the spokesman for Kandil.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0094par0104	I can't hear you, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0095par0105	He teased me about speaking as the speaker of Kandil.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0094par0106	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. And I promise you two minutes. I'll listen to you later, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0097par0110	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, let me say that Kandil didn't need us to speak for him, and we have no intention of speaking for Kandil. Therefore, if you want to criticize, criticize HDP's statements and policies. Now, Congressman, you've tried to explain what the solution process is for, but we've always expressed it, so put your hand on your conscience and put the fact that all the public accepts in one place to reason. I know you well, and you're in control of the Kurdish issue. We all know that you broke the solution process because HDP decided to enter the election as a party and broke the presidential account, and because Kobani was saved from falling in historical resistance to ISIS gangs. Again, you introduced the concept of war into the field through these two perspectives, after the June 7th elections, to get 13 per cent of the HDP (HDP) by crossing the 10 per cent threshold, to get Tel Abyad (Tel Abyad) and Gire Spi (Islamics) by the YPG, to be liberated. All that stuff on this is demagogue, hammock. I mean, Mr. President had decided that he was going to drink the hemlock, but he didn't drink it, so he gave it to the community. Since HDP crossed the dam, the solution process was broken because Kobani and Rojava didn't fall, because of their own political ruling account, it fed the hemlock poison to society. The whole community knows that. On the other hand, we've finished the denial, we've finished the assimilation. For God's sake, I mean, put your hand back on your conscience. Thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of laws, regulations, regulations, regulations, there's no mention of the word "Kurt" anywhere, there's no word of "Alevi" going on, there's no word of "Armen" or "Asuri" or "Suriyani." Is that how you ended your assimilation? Your sense of denial, your sense of assimilation... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...subject laws, the constitution of coups, continue the same way. So I say, don't mislead the people here, defend your own policies. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0098par0119	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0099par0121	Mr. President, when Mr. Levent spoke, he used the statement "AK PARTl" (the values of the Republic), which is a clear taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0098par0122	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0099par0125	Mr. President, dear friends, I believe Mr. Levent sees the values of the republic and the values of the Republican People's Party in a historical identity. The speaker of the EC PARTY group criticised CHP, which does not mean the values of the republic. We all know the history of the republic, the values that form the republic. When Ataturk founded the republic, he wanted to crown it with democracy. If we look at the political tradition that established democracy in Turkey, developed democracy, provided freedoms, Mr. Levent, since 1950, we can see that today is the tradition represented by the AK PARTI. Of course, all political parties, CHP, have their contribution in this framework, but the perpetrator is Menderes, the Justice Party, the late Ozal, and today is the AK PARTI, the real perpetrator; everyone has their contribution. After all, democracy is possible with the development of a country, with urbanization, with its enrichment, with its institutions, with all this. The role of the EC PARTY here is certainly a political stance that investigates the values of the republic and prepares the financial and moral conditions for the presence of the Republic of Turkey as an honorable state. So using the Republic of Turkey as a shield to meet criticism of your party is not a good logic. The Republic is our common value. First of all, let me make this clear. Secondly, Mr. Baluken mentioned why the solution process was over and what happened today. In any case, terrorist attempts are no reason to rebuild the table. You can't look at terror with that kind of logic. We will fight terrorism, the state will fight it, and we will continue to embrace it. That's the job of politics. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0100par0129	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0101par0130	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0100par0131	Mr. Sky, just a moment... Mr. Erkan Akçay is demanding a statement according to Article 60. I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Akchay. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0102par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. We've just watched the speech of the speaker, who represents the Justice and Development Party on the stand, astonished and exemplary. I want the Justice and Development Party to make a decision and stop fooling people. Now, referring to the Prime Minister's words, he said that, well, he said that this solution process was the greatest success of the last century, according to him. Yes, speaking those words is a mockery of the human mind. And topple the table... so we didn't end this process of resolution, the other side ended it. And there are words that suggest that AKP would come back to the table with the elements of that terrorist organization called the okeysolution process. So one eye of the AKP is again, again, in the process of the old solution that has clearly, clearly appeared to be a threat to our nation. There's a saying in Asia Minor, which means he's got a hand, a dawdle eye. Second of all, he's talking about.......... How many times do I have with this Israel, hand me a hat and a cone, and how many wheels, and how many flips? Now, what is the opinion of Israel? Let the government make a statement. It's still stuck in the........ in the x. That's what we call the AKP. The last trip to the U.S., the meeting with the Jewish lobby... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0103par0144	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0102par0145	One sentence...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0103par0146	Here you go, finish up.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0102par0147	He spent almost all his Jewish lobbying meetings with support and support. The Secretary of State says we're not going to be cross with the United States for the PYD. I mean, yesterday, today. Let the Justice and Development Party be clear in its rhetoric and policy, be clear, be honest. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0103par0149	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0104par0151	Sir, Mr. Bostanci...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0103par0152	Your voice doesn't come here, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0104par0153	In the speech of Mr. Bostanci, his assessments -- by name as well -- are wrong, and his evaluations are a new challenge to our group. I'd like a word in that regard.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0103par0154	I mean, what sentence did he make, Mr. Gök?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0104par0155	Sir, after receiving a promise from the Republican People's Party that many issues were seeded by the previous speaker, he said that I was referring to the relationship between the Republican People's Party and the founding values of the republic.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0103par0156	I see, well, here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I promise you in two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0104par0161	First of all, I'd like to say that I am very pleased with Mr. Bostanci's understanding of the republic's values, and that's how we want to see you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, the worthy lawmakers are an understanding that the republic is the one that unites a disintegrating nation and establishes the new Republic of Turkey, the secular republic. He has founding values. These should be the values of all parties, not just the Republican People's Party. You should all be as sensitive to the importance of secularism as the Republican People's Party. Look at the Middle East geography today, under the leadership of the Republican People's Party, the secular republic founded under Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is clearly a blessing for Turkey, so please don't deny it. To create a nation... Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his staff did not remain one man, they introduced Turkey to multi-party regimes at a reasonable time, but now you want to write the scenarios of the transition from multi-party regime to one man, that's what our opposition is. (HPP) The victory of Çanakkale, the War of Salvation, the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, giving women the right to choose and be elected, the multi-party regime, the construction of a nation from one community, these are not little things; let us appreciate them, dear friends.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0105par0165	We're saying the same thing.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0104par0166	Let us appreciate these things so that the glory of this assembly we speak of becomes even more evident. These are our objections. When we talk about the values of our republic, of course, as the Republican People's Party, we are sensitive to them, and we say that you should be sensitive to them. Because we don't think we should play with the most important elements for the construction of our government. In this regard, I congratulate Mr. Bostanci, but the speaker had just said the opposite of that, and I objected to that. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0106par0169	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0107par0170	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0106par0171	Wait a second...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0108par0172	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0106par0173	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0108par0174	Mr. President, speaking from the stand, Mr. Bostanci also mentioned my name and used sentences I had never said to return to the table while the terrorist attacks continued.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0106par0175	He attributed an opinion to you that you did not suggest.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0108par0176	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0106par0177	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0108par0179	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have been told from the very beginning that your war on this field is not a state defense, but a state war, but a palace defense and a palace war. And I regret to inform you that all social areas, including CHP, are in danger of the state's opposition, fighting terrorism, breaking down terror, house-cleaning, whether it's over today or tomorrow. You have received a war loan by deceiving them, but that war loan is running out.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0109par0181	Terrorists are starting to shrink.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0108par0182	Now, all the social groups are starting to question your policies about the outcome of their loan. Strongly, they began to say out loud that the palace was in danger, not the state's bed. Strongly, we will break the back of the terrorist. They began to question what terror they had committed to the funerals. We're finishing the PKK. They now see that the people who say "PKKK" are expanding the PKK to a level that will not be in PKK's history, especially after the recent massacres, are from Cizre.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0109par0183	Your co-chair didn't say, "Put down the gun." He didn't say to the PKK.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0108par0184	...that you have sent hundreds of thousands of young people from Silopi, thousands of them, to the PKK's ranks.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0109par0185	First say it, put down the gun. He didn't say it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0108par0186	Therefore, the loan of your war is now over, and you can no longer convince the fighting forces in the region.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0109par0187	Your war, not ours.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0108par0188	Look, thousands of Special Ops are petitioning for a reassignment.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0109par0189	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0110par0190	Didn't you explain that on July 11th, there was no harm done?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0108par0191	Yesterday, I was in Bingol, Diyarbakır, where tens, hundreds of soldiers, police, petitioning for resignation to be no part of the palace war, resign!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0109par0192	Don't be a tool!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0110par0193	Did he or did he not make a statement on July 11th?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0108par0194	Therefore, if you fight for 40 years, if you commit 40 times heavier state terror, your destination is the negotiating table. When the road is near, do so without costing our people more. This is what we meant when we said it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0111par0197	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0112par0199	Mr. Baluken is not the defense of the country, but the defense of the palace.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0113par0200	He's your talker, Hodja.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0112par0201	...but he also spoke in accordance with the terrorist organization's strategy, and he also criticised the AK PARTY Group for its fight against this terror.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0113par0202	Right, Göbels.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0112par0203	According to 69, I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0114par0204	Mr. Bostanci, come in, but I beg you, let's end this, and I believe you will speak in a manner that will not be challenged by a new taunt. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0112par0207	Mr. President, one of the so-called chiefs of the PKK's terrorist organization says that this means that our goal is Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and the power of the AK PARTI. Mr. Baluken, as a political party who has thanked you on democratic grounds, in a manner appropriate to this strategy, this is not a country business, it's a palace business. What context would you call it? How can you judge that? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] This is what is done, our beloved nation, that the terrorist organization has launched an attack against this nation, its presence, its common destiny, and its future. The same terrorist organization is trying to make this work as part of its dirty strategy by presenting it as a part of domestic politics, saying "Sararay" and "AK PARTY" and "All opposition forces except the AK PARTY" are trying to make it a partner in its own dirty strategy. These people don't play this game, Mr. Baluken, these people don't play this game. The terrorist organisation, even its chiefs, says that what they do in the cities is wrong, that it brings destruction as a result, and that it is also painful for them. I hope Mr. Baluken and the HDP Group have shown a self-criticism for their comments, which so far appear to be part of the same strategy in the public. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0115par0212	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0116par0213	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0115par0214	So again, he taunted us by saying that we were speaking in accordance with the same strategy as the PKK.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0116par0215	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. I'm asking you to express your thoughts in a way that does not challenge a new taunt, and we'll end it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0115par0218	Thank you. Mr. Bostancı, we are not responsible for your remarks about the PKK.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0117par0220	Why are you answering?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0115par0221	You'll probably get an answer from the TKK's presidential council or co-chairs. But what the HDP has said is clear from day one. As an MP in the solution process, we agreed that if a surveillance team were to be established at the last meeting in Imralı, and if Mr. Ocalan is to go to the island a week after his message to Diyarbakır (Nevroz), the formal talks would begin and the call would be made to the PKK to put aside the armed struggle against the Republic of Turkey, and that the democratic political struggle would be carried out. If you read the government's transcripts, you'll see the agreement there. However, a 40-year war...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0118par0222	No war, no war!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0115par0223	President Erdoğan said, "I don't approve of the monitoring committee." He said, "There will be no monitoring committee." He said, "What table, what side? There is no table, there is no side; these are the words that legitimize the Imran. He said, "He has even gone further." He said, "The Dolmabahçe agreement is wrong, there is no Kurdish problem." So once we answer all of this, it's a lie; in fact, you have to answer it. In two and a half years, if you've considered the solution process as the most important project of the century, as your proxy just referred to the Prime Minister, then you should have come forward and answered. So it's very clear who broke the solution process, who knocked over the table, who started the war. Of course, if you come with a public war, we'll bow to it and bow to it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Your waiting is not a realistic comment. We will continue to fight against you and against the palace.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0119par0227	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Speaking on behalf of political party groups on whether or not the motion to be brought up has ended.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0120par0232	Mr. President, the debate on the solution process is in the public eye, and the concerned ministers have made the necessary statements.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0121par0233	There's no explanation, Mr. President, it's not true, it's a lie; there's no explanation-- they're just mugalataing, it's a debate.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0120par0234	The statements are clear, and the people have an opinion.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0122par0235	Well, thank you, Mr. Botanci. It's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0123par0237	In order to get it into the transcripts, I would like to say that we are very concerned about Mr. Arinc, who is the founder of the AKP (AKP) today's call for immediate return to the solution process without asylum, and that all AKP MPs should read it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0122par0238	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0123par0239	I also recommend that the AKP MPs read again, which criticised Mr. Arinc's stance on the balance sheet division over the dead.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0122par0240	Thank you, Mr. Baluken, it's been filed. Now I promise the government. Minister of Justice, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0124par0246	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I stand before you on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the basis of a motion to ask for a gene. On this occasion, honored members, I salute you separately. First of all, I'd like to point out that the gene is not based on any concreteness; in the framework of a purely specific perception operation, it's all distortions and baseless comments. Giving such a motion and using a very serious establishment such as the geneor, it has been extremely wrong. It is clear in the Constitution and the Civil Charter that it is what it is; it does not fit any of them, and I would like to express it specifically from here. Turkey is a state of law. The EC PARTY governments have signed serious reforms at the point of strengthening the legal state. The steps we took during our administrations, through our reforms, we have consistently strengthened the state of law and judicial independence. Now, I'd like to ask your grand delegation: in Turkey, where DGM is not even encouraged to speak, by removing DGMs and OSMs, did we take the state of law back?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0125par0250	What about the terms of the peace?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0124par0251	Have we weakened the legal state? In Turkey, where the Constitution forbids it, we removed the barriers to seeking rights and weakened the legal state?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0126par0253	You're not implementing court orders.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0124par0254	Did we take the state of law, the democratic state, back to the nation, by removing the interim 15 put-outs of the Constitution, which prevents the trial of those who did the coup in Turkey?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0126par0255	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0124par0256	We've done things to applaud, things to appreciate.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0126par0257	Well, then you apologized because we did it wrong!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0127par0258	What are we clapping for?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0126par0259	We've been tricked. You've apologized!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0128par0260	Did we reverse the rule of law by putting the civil rights right to the officers to the Constitution, which gives them the right to a collective agreement on international human rights, the rule that gives them the upper hand over international contract provisions in the event of a conflict of agreements on international human rights? Who did this? We did it, we did it, we did it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0127par0262	Look at the app, the application!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0128par0263	We signed all the contracts. We took the step that put them all above the law.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0129par0264	E, you're not doing the court's orders!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0128par0265	We brought positive discrimination in favor of women, positive discrimination in favor of children, the right to protect personal data, to the Constitution, and to our law. That's how you take care of the legal state. You don't go out in front of coupters, clapping behind them, you go out doing what's necessary.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0129par0266	You've silenced a man!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0130par0267	You said it was a national conspiracy! The plot of the parallel!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0131par0268	There are 40,000 applications to the Constitutional Court regarding rights violations.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0132par0269	Look, in the period before us, the President, the Supreme Court, the State doesn't have the authority to elect a direct member, the appointment; neither do the judicial, administrative judges and prosecutors on the stand. For each empty member to choose three, the Supreme Court will then elect the President. It said that our Constitutions and laws, you can't do it, you can't choose it directly. There's no secretary, no budget, no building, even the Ministry of Justice, even his tea maker, is bound to the Minister of Justice. So what did we do? We gave the president, the Supreme Court, the Court of Justice, the General Assembly of the Justice Academy, the judicial and administrative judges and prosecutors who were on the stand a direct membership in the HSYK, the state of law, backtracking, did we do it wrong? We did it right. We've reduced the role of the Minister of Justice. He doesn't agree with the work of the agencies, he doesn't have the right to vote; we've only made him chairman of the general council on certain issues.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0131par0270	Why did you give up the presidency?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0132par0271	The review board was under the Ministry of Justice, so we connected it to HSYK, did we do it badly? We did good. Our arrangements have been to strengthen judicial independence, separation of forces, the state of law, and I want to underline that especially here. As a result of these steps, as there have been very positive developments in Turkey, our report card in the European Court of Human Rights has also changed. On December 31, 2012, the number of instigated applications, 16,876, declined by 50 per cent on February 29, 2016, to 8.500 per cent.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0131par0273	Why are you twisting it? He's going to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court. How do you twist it like that? How many thousand applications to the Supreme Court!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0132par0274	These are clear that the steps we take are extremely successful and correct.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0133par0275	Don't flex.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0132par0276	The independence of the judiciary is an integral quality of the state of law. This is an undisputed issue. Judicial authority is used by independent courts on behalf of the Turkish nation. Judges are independent in their duties. They do their duty with their consciences bound by the Constitution, law and law. Their devotion should be solely to the Constitution, the law, and the law; it is an integral quality of judicial independence to reject all other commitments.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0134par0277	You have only one allegiance, and that is to the palace. You're bound to the sultan.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0132par0278	A judge, a prosecutor, if his conscience is not bound by the Constitution, the law and the law, then he can act on ideology, other things, the conjuncture that such a person cannot be independent, such a conscience cannot lead to justice. For him, we took important steps. Look, everyone had secrets that they talked about, and now they're saying it here. That some judges and prosecutors have acted on behalf of the Turkish nation instead of using judicial authority with a conscientious opinion based on the Constitution, law and law and the establishment of a parallel state...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0135par0280	It's parallel to you, you!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0132par0281	...the allegations of how the documents would be decided were raised by those who acted in the name of Pennsylvania or Pennsylvania or so on.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0136par0282	Well, aren't you the one who wrote "beautiful" to Pennsylvania, or did we?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0135par0283	Greetings to Pennsylvania!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0137par0284	Thanks to you, he's out in the open.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0138par0285	Look, do you know who's making the most of these allegations?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0135par0286	He says hello, he says hello to Pennsylvania!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0138par0287	Now, I'm looking at what's been said about these allegations, what's been said.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0139par0288	You're making fun of people's minds. You have thanked Pennsylvania many times.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0138par0289	Look, Mr. Kilicdaroglu: I'm really sorry that I called the prosecutors and the judge who handled these cases...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0139par0290	Oh, for God's sake! So, brother, you have the documents, you live in space?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0138par0291	I apologize to the honorable, trustworthy, conscientious judges and prosecutors...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0139par0292	Oh, the papers, the speeches!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0140par0293	You're scared, you!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0139par0294	Yeah, is the parallel parallel to us? It's parallel to you!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0141par0295	I'm speaking to all my people from here, no matter how long it takes, I'm going to have to answer to these prosecutors and judges who are continuing these cases, who have murdered justice. You massacred justice, justice, you called yourself a judge and a prosecutor. You're not a prosecutor, you're not a judge. It's not a lie, it's the documents here. There are dozens, dozens of other... Look, there's a research motion issued by CHP to set up a parliamentary research commission on some issues related to parallel state construction, Mr. Kilicdaroglu's signature is in 9/3/2005. Again, look, in the following period, Mr. Kilicdaroglu is saying an approach to some judges and prosecutors. On the other hand, I'm looking now, Mr. Demirtaş: which governor, which chancellor, today, can make a serious decision without consulting the traditional secret core committee of the congregation? I'm curious, and I'm asking, how many governors have seen this power in you? Are there many prosecutors and police chiefs of special authorities able to make decisions without consulting the semi-secret arrangements in the cities of this congregation?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0142par0298	Can they now make decisions without consulting the AKP?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0141par0299	Now, why am I saying this? I'm not accusing you. It's so wrong to take some of the words I've said in the past and carry them here today, it won't save you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0143par0300	Why, are you ashamed of your past?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0141par0301	I've always expressed, expressed...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0144par0302	I mean, we don't know if you said it or not. Well, then, you did.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0145par0303	Mr. Secretary, you come in here and smack us in the face with what our leader says, asking us to pay for the years we haven't been.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0141par0304	I told them when I saw them doing the right thing. After they realized that they had done wrong, there was not a single word, not a single sentence that I spoke to in their favor, but look, those who are saying that here now, on the one hand, are Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and on the other hand, like the speaker of the parallel structure in Parliament. I wonder if they gave you this gene, did you give it to them?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0146par0305	It's parallel to you, you!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0147par0306	Look, look, look, look, your tweets are here. Read it, look.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0148par0307	You're parallel, you're parallel! Speaker of the parallel!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0147par0308	You're the parallelist, you're the parallelist!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0149par0309	Congressmans, please, sir, let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0150par0310	Look, I'm very clear, as Minister of Justice, that if I didn't hear these allegations about the Turkish judiciary, I didn't hear the talks, I ignored what was going on in the judiciary, it would be a violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0147par0312	Look, look, it's yours, look at your tweets!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0151par0313	You parallel!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0150par0314	As Minister of Justice, I have done my duty; I have kept the Constitution, the law, the law, and the independence of the judiciary; and from now on, I will continue to take care of it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0147par0316	Look, look, these are your tweets, look!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0150par0317	The words that speak in favor of parallel state construction these days, the ones that can't find words, the ones that go through the books in the past, and they say the words in their favor.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0152par0318	The parallel is here, parallel!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0147par0319	You'll blush. Look, your tweets are here. Bekir Bozdağ, you will apologize for that promise. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0150par0320	They don't do what we say today, they do what they did in the past. That's why I'm telling them that words from the past don't wash away those who are involved in this pollution.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0152par0321	Mr. Secretary, look here, your speech at the Turkish Olympics is here.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0147par0322	Don't you talk like that before you blush!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0150par0323	And you and I, we need to fight this parallel structure that's stacked up in court together.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0153par0324	They fed, raised, and now they're fighting!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0150par0325	Let me make this very clear: this is not about political polemics. Yesterday you said, "You said it today." If you open a book, I'll say a lot to you, and you'll say a lot to me.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0154par0326	Here, here, here, say hello to Master Hodja!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0155par0327	In the same tie, you apologize to Mr. Fethullah.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0150par0328	So I say, "Come, let's not forget who said what about the judge yesterday, what says today?" In order for our judgment to be independent and impartial, we need to fight with Parliament's cooperation against the Constitution and illegal organisation.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0155par0330	Mr. Secretary, here you are apologizing with the same tie.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0156par0331	Mr. President, please keep the silence.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0157par0332	Congressmans, please, sir. Please let's hear from the Minister, sir. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0158par0333	Otherwise, what you're doing will only give power to those who cause many negatives that cloud the judgment, power.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0159par0334	Don't you blush, Bekir Bozdağ!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0160par0335	There's God up there!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0158par0336	So, let's be together. This struggle must be carried out under the common responsibility of this Parliament. Not just the Minister of Justice, not just the government, but we all need a common struggle. I'd like to express that in particular from here. We have removed the special courts, removed the DGMs, and established a judicial judge.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0161par0338	What about the punishment for peace? What about the peace penalty, by the way?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0162par0339	What happened to the terms of the peace?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0158par0340	Now, what happened? Look, we've established a court of justice. Look, I'm going to read something here. The Supreme Court is sending a statement saying: "It is proper to make this long-standing change over which there is debate. " The Supreme Court gives the opinion of why the judicial justice must be established; the date is 10/12/2013, and that's when they sent it. I'm not the Minister yet, not before. Again, the HSYK's view is 6/12/2013, and he praises it in the same way. It's a 2012-2016 strategy document, and they praise it. The European Union also praises it. Do you know when the justice of the peace was bad? After we established the justice of the peace, the parallel structure launched a black propaganda: it dried up for this, this was built for this.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0163par0342	It's parallel to you! It's parallel to you!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0158par0343	Yes, the writings are here, everyone praises: The Supreme Court says it's true. The HSYK says it's true. The EU says it's true. The Constitutional Court says it's true. The Constitutional Court says it's legal, but you look at it, in a parallel slander, there's no injustice left to these courts, there's no injustice left. I'd like to express that here in particular. It is very important for a judge to make all decisions regarding judgment during the investigation phase to examine the decisions made during the arrest phase. He's an expert, he only looks at those issues, but he used to judge, he does other work, while making decisions about arrests or other measures.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0163par0346	The parallel is here, parallel!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0158par0347	This arrangement we've made for him...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0163par0348	Mr. Secretary, you spoke in the same tie at the Olympics, at the Turkish Olympics!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0158par0349	...it is in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution, it is in accordance with its speech, it is in accordance with the legal state; it is incompatible with the rhetoric, its spirit, its spirit, but it is in harmony with those who obey it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Apocalypse has been raised over my criticism of the Constitutional Court's rulings.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0163par0352	The parallel is here, parallel!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0164par0353	Here, here, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0158par0354	Yeah, what's with the apocalypse?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0165par0355	Counting Minister, one moment, sir...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0158par0356	Are the Constitutional Court's decisions not criticised, sacred texts?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0165par0357	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0166par0358	Mr. President, we're having trouble understanding the preacher!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0167par0359	Mr. Secretary, the parallel is here!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0165par0360	Congressmans, please, listen to the Minister quietly, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0168par0361	Enemy to us, parallel to you!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0169par0362	People showed you the card, people showed you the card! You've seen the red card, people!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0165par0363	An important matter is being discussed, we're having a meeting with the minister, let's hear it, sir. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0170par0365	It's not the sacred texts that can't be criticised. It is a democratic right to criticize court decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0171par0366	You put our scientists to bed inside!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0170par0367	As Minister of Justice, if you have any criticism of a court order, you can say so. What are we criticizing? The most sensitive place to uphold the constitution and the law is that it does not show that sensitivity. Now, what does the Constitution say? He says: "The things that must be observed in the ways of the law cannot be discussed." What does he say? Parts can only discuss this, they cannot discuss it in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0172par0368	What's he gonna do? If the trial lasts long, they'll be locked up inside? That's where the law runs out with an appeal to an arrest warrant. I guess you didn't know.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0170par0369	But now the charter has been changed, it's being discussed there, and only the law can go through exhausted issues, and it's getting to the bottom of it, and it's making decisions. So what I'm saying is that when I overstep my authority, you criticize me when I'm wrong, you criticize me when I'm wrong, but when a court is wrong, we need to criticize it. The individual appeals to the Constitutional Court do not make the Supreme Court a first-degree court, not an appeals court, not a super appeals court, his authority is limited. When he stays within that boundary, of course, our respect is infinite. Can we say something else? But when the border is crossed, it is our most natural, democratic right to make our criticism of it. Mr. President represents the unity of the Turkish nation according to Article 104, which monitors the implementation of the Constitution and the regular and harmonised functioning of state bodies.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0173par0370	It doesn't say "Bozar."
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0170par0371	Mr. President, it is a constitutional duty given to him by the Constitution to observe the proper implementation of the Constitution. Now, there have been a lot of words, criticisms, against our President. I'd like to point out from here that the item in Article 299 of the Turkish Penal Code is not just in our law. Similarly, in the law of other countries, this issue has been identified as a crime. Let me read some of them, and you may wonder: between one and five years in Italy, three years in Poland, five in Germany; Greece, Iceland, Portugal, Slovenia, Norway, and many European Union countries are guilty. Well, why aren't there so many?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0174par0373	There is no President like this!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0175par0374	That's because he doesn't exist!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0170par0375	There are no citizens who collectively consider insults to the President and start campaigning on it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0176par0377	The presidents there respect everyone.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0177par0378	The presidents there are presidents, not like here.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0170par0379	Now the groups are launching campaigns against our President.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0176par0380	The presidents there respect their people.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0170par0381	Everyone says: "There is an opinion against the president. He has been arrested, an opinion has been filed. The Minister of Justice has given permission. Look, the words are here. No one's getting hurt just because she's been tweeted.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0178par0382	The President here is acting like the AKP's President.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0170par0383	No one gets hurt just because he did. What's he doing? He's making squirrel swears. My face is blushing, I can't read, look, it's all red in here. I'll give it to the people who want it. (AC PARTY) Look, is it proper for this nation to take a stand with your mother, your wife, your sister, your children, your past? It's embarrassing. We don't defend them, we don't protect them. I'm blushing, I can't read. But now, look, on all sides, campaigns are being carried out under the assassination of a reputation against our President. The Venice Commission arrived last time. I've spoken to the president of the Venice Commission in the past. So when he told me about some issues, he said to me: "Our job is to advise governments in the process of constitutional construction." But, now, he's coming to conduct a study on the 299th article. What, is the 299th article incumbent on the Venice Commission? It's not the Constitution. The European Council has decided to enter. In which country of the world are decisions made about the study of these substances? No. Did this clause come into our law in 2004? No. Is this part of the Turkish Penal Code, which was adopted in 1925? I do. Has it been implemented for over 90 years? Applying. Has it ever occurred to those who have practiced it to this day that they might claim it to be contrary to the Constitution? They didn't, because there's nothing against the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0179par0386	Why open this time when there's not been so many insulting cases in 90 years? Did you question that?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0180par0387	Cross-reference with the former President, cross-reference.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0181par0388	Mr. Secretary, I'll turn on your microphone, give you an extension. Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0182par0390	But, unfortunately, it's come to another point today, and it's wanted.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0183par0391	There was a President in accordance with the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0182par0392	Look, I'll tell you this: no matter how big campaigns you run to discredit our President himself, you can't win because you can't destroy the heart of the people who have love in their hearts until you rip out that heart! Whenever you do it, you'll get no results. By God's leave, this nation will continue to know who it will love and how it will love.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0184par0393	I'm afraid you're tearing people's hearts out. Where in the world is the president so disrespectful to his people?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0182par0394	Of course, there's a lot of stuff in here about me, about curfews, and there are other issues.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0184par0395	You said the same thing about Master Fethullah.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0185par0396	Same words, same words! Master Fethullah in the heart of the nation! Don't speak ill of Mr. Recep tomorrow!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0182par0397	I would like to point out that all of these issues are in accordance with the law in Turkey. Turkey's fight against terrorism is in accordance with the principles of the legal state.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0184par0398	It's hard to defend something else every day. Allah will make it easy for you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0182par0399	Turkey is the only country in the world to continue its fight against terrorism in accordance with law. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, there was a terrorist attack in France, what did the French government do?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0186par0402	The whole world knows it!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0182par0403	He told the European Council of Europe's Secretary-General that he had suspended the European Convention on Human Rights, and he sent a paper.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0186par0404	Isn't Turkey the best country in freedom of the press?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0182par0406	I'm fighting terrorism, and I'm suspending the Convention on Human Rights. France did this. So, what do they say in France about the fight against terrorism, what do they say in Turkey? Has Turkey suspended the European Convention on Human Rights? He didn't. We're doing our duty to him properly, we're fighting our battles.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0187par0407	No need, you're doing it well!) You don't have to suspend it, you don't apply it!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0182par0408	Did he go to the Supreme Court? He's gone. Did he go to the European Court of Human Rights? He's gone. Both the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights basically rejected these issues. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In five cases, the ECHR issued a precautionary decision, and then removed them. There is not one file that has been issued a precautionary decision at this time. On the other hand, it is said to be unlawful. There's no law against it. Lawlessness is building barricades, digging ditchs, dropping bombs, shooting bullets at civilians, soldiers, police. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) It's to go door-to-door and use this bench to make terrorists look like civilians. This is the shameful one, and this is the wrong one. We know who's a terrorist.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0188par0413	It's over. It's over, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0182par0414	The soldier, pointing a gun at the police, firing a rocket, throwing a bomb, putting a mine, for God's sake, is the soldier going to go with a cannon? You threw a bomb at me, look, a lot of my brothers are martyrs. Is that how he's gonna look at her?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0189par0415	Don't question them. The governor who says, "Don't investigate them." And don't question the governor. What about him?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0182par0416	What's he gonna do? He'll answer her in the language she deserves. That's what's done.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0189par0417	Don't question the governor. What about him? Don't touch the governors. What about the governors?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0190par0418	Who says don't touch the governors when they come with guns?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0191par0419	Mr. President, the bench is now occupied.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0192par0420	We will continue to speak to terrorists and terrorist organizations, his supporters, the language they deserve, and from now on, the language the terrorists deserve.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0193par0422	You appointed the governors together, appointed the police chiefs together.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0194par0423	Who says don't touch terrorists?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0192par0424	I leave this unjust and unjust question to the consciences of the High Assembly, and I commend you all to God.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0195par0426	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0196par0427	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0195par0428	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0196par0429	Sir, in Turkey's research, the judiciary is the 7th of the trusted institutions. A Minister of Justice, who had brought the judiciary to the 7th place in his day, should have talked about them, while he said in his speech how the judiciary should have come to the 1st place, how justice should have come to the 1st place, how our spokesman acted as a spokesman for the parallel structure.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0197par0430	Isn't that right?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0196par0431	It's a heavy sentence, and we'll return it to him. In that respect, we'd like a word, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0198par0432	You demand word according to Article 69.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0196par0433	Yes, Bulent Tezcan will speak.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0198par0434	Here you go, Mr. Tezcan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is two minutes. Please use your right to answer in a manner that does not challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0199par0440	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I'm not going to do a polemic, I'm just going to read a few things. My regards to Lord Fethullah Gülen Hodja, from Antalya.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0200par0442	It was then.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0201par0443	Look at the date, the date.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0199par0444	The stadiums will be narrow to the Olympics.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0200par0445	Tell me your date, your date.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0199par0446	I thank Lord Fethullah Gülen Hodja Efendi.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0200par0447	Now you say hello.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0199par0448	These are the words Mr. Bekir Bozdağ posted from his Twitter account, one.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0200par0450	Tell me your date, your date. I was wondering if you could tell me your date.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0199par0451	Second: March 24, 2011, look, I leave this word to your conscience, and there is no need to comment on: "Fethullah Gülen is a precious asset raised by this country; you love it; but you don't like it, but he is a precious man, a wise man.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0202par0452	Yeah, when it suits you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0203par0453	Let Ekmeleddin tell you, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0199par0454	▪ He serves to bring up generations of national and spiritual values in this country. Everything is clear, under the supervision of the state, under the supervision of the state, and everything is in plain sight.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0204par0456	Your former president brought up the concept of f-type construction. Deniz Baykal brought in the concept of F-type organization, Deniz Baykal.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0205par0457	Congressmans, please, listen to the speaker, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0199par0458	It's unacceptable to accuse clean people of the gang. It's also Mr. Bekir Bozdağ's words, which are his words to the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0206par0459	You say it now, what's your word?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0199par0460	Dear friends, whatever we said yesterday, we're saying the same thing today.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0206par0461	Say it from the stand, from the stand.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0199par0462	Yesterday, Mr. President, when Fethullah Gulen said that he was trying to take over the state, you were walking parallel with him, we were against it, and we are against it today.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0206par0464	Who's that on your arm?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0199par0465	You were the one who appointed the 160 judges to the Supreme Court and corrupted the Court. You brought the congregation into the Supreme Court, and we were the ones who opposed it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0206par0466	Tell me where you are!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0199par0467	It was your president who said, "What did heaven want and what didn't exist?"
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0206par0469	No, where in the hell are you?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0199par0470	We don't have a black page in our book, no matter what book you open, the black page is in your book. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0207par0473	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0208par0474	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0207par0475	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0208par0476	I mean, I can't hear myself over the hum.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0207par0477	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one moment, sir... please, I invite you to remain calm. Mr. Bauken, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0208par0479	Mr. President, as a member of a cabinet, Mr. Justice Minister Bekir Bozdag argued that the HDP had co-operated with the parallel structure, so he argued that the HDP had co-operated with the parallel structure.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0207par0480	You're going to talk?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0208par0481	On behalf of our group, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0207par0482	Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is two minutes. Mr. Danış Beştaş, please use your right to answer in a manner that does not create a taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0209par0487	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, Mr. Justice Minister, have not answered our questions. We really didn't understand anything. I mean, I've only heard an answer to the Constitutional Court's motive for dozens of reasons, but other than that, we haven't been able to respond to any of the policies, any of the 1990s policy on child mortality or child mortality. As Minister of Justice, you've told me about the same courts you've put up here with the same names as yours. You've removed the SOCs, you've set up courts with the TMK, you've handed over the same powers, and then you've handed over the same powers to the judicial courts. So when we listened to you, we really didn't understand anything that we were asking with our gene, anything that was a motive. We didn't understand what we said, and you didn't understand what you said.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0210par0488	Then you'll give it again, you'll understand, give it again.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0209par0489	I'm asking you, Mr. Attorney General, why can't we go to prison? After November 1st, why don't you allow one HDP MP? You're completely denying it by breaking the law with an arbitrary attitude, even though you don't have the authority, and we've started the legal procedures for it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0211par0490	Why ask permission if he doesn't have the authority?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0209par0491	We certainly expect a verdict from the judge as soon as possible. I mean, there's nothing we can say about the AYM decisions, but it's your time again to beat up the lawyers in the courthouse halls, to arrest them. So you've done very well as the President's attorney, you've done well indeed, congratulations, that's what we've already said.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0212par0493	We're all in charge of defending our President, all of us. Your duty is to defend the President.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0209par0494	We didn't say anything else, but if you're going to defend the President, I suggest the example of protection in America.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0212par0495	Yes, because it's our duty, our President.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0209par0496	He makes other noises there, and then maybe you can shut him up, and it doesn't work any other way.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0212par0497	He's our President, so start defending him.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0209par0498	So let me tell Mr. Minister of Justice that there's a saying in our Diyarbakır. It's really legal. It's not what you call it. Diyarbakirs say that we admire us, we are victims. I mean, he came, he praised himself... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he destroyed all the statistics and didn't answer any of our questions. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit02spe0213par0503	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. Talks have been concluded on whether or not the motion to ask about Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ will be brought up. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes on whether or not the motion to be brought up. All those who have agreed to the motion of the gene... to accept the motion... yes, the motion of the gene is not accepted. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0213par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 66th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We are starting talks with Diyarbakır MP İdris Bauken and Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel, who are members of the Group for Peoples' Democratic Party Group, as well as with his First Minister of Family and Social Policy Sema Ramazanoglu (11/4) as well as with their main directive (11/4). Government? He's in position. I do not re-read the motion because it was previously published and was read in the 62nd Union of the General Assembly, dated 29 March 2016. According to Article 99 of the Constitution, the meeting will be promised to a member of the motion holders, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a Prime Minister or minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. I'm now reading the names of the members who have been quoted: Huda Kaya, İstanbul MP. On behalf of political party groups, I read the MPs: Deniz Depboylu, Aydın MP for the People's Democratic Party Group; Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, İstanbul MP; Candan Yüker for the People's Party Group; Tekirdağ MP for the Justice and Development Party Group; Mehmet Akif Yılmaz for the People's Party Group; Mehmet Akif Yılmaz for the People's Party Group. On behalf of the government, Sema Ramazanoğlu, Minister of Family and Social Policy. We will now begin the meeting of the motion. On behalf of the motionholders, Mr. Hüda Kaya is an Istanbul MP. Here you go, sir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0214par0017	Dear President, I have received a pledge from the HDP (HDP) who promised that Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Sema Ramazanoglu, had neglected to prevent sexual abuse of children and violence against women. Of course, we know that women and children have not only been attacked for fifteen years, but have been exploited, abused and raped throughout history, been violent, taken the biggest blow in wars, political and economic social crises. Today, at the same time, the attacks of traditionalist, religious, conservative mentality, while the common attacks of capitalist, seculist and modernist mentality, have been the most severe process in the history of the world for all women and children. Of humanity's cradles, Mesopotamia, the Middle East and Asia Minor geography have undoubtedly been seriously affected and continues to be affected by these human crises. Overcoming these historical and deep crises may only be possible by returning to nature, by returning to nature, through a revolution of mentality that transcends laws, legislation, ideology, parties, organisations, communities, foundations, economic models, all projects and all humanism. So it's difficult and difficult to find and find a radical solution in existing systems, states, laws, parties, cities, metropoliss, structures. However, those who hold power and power at all times and place are primarily responsible for the consequences and cannot escape responsibility. For years, Turkey has been playing the most turbulent, violent, bloody roles in its history, and in one of the thousands of examples of sufferings, the AKP has not taken on a single responsibility and taken the position of reckoning in accordance with its executive morality; it has always played the responsible, the victim, the oppressed, and continues to play its roles. The AKP, Turkey, the world's worst victim, even the world's most vulnerable, has taken over all institutions, including those who should be independent of power, state, and state, has had no more than an attempt to make it seem as if it were the most rehabilitated and targeted. Hundreds, thousands of murders, massacres, corruption, human kindness, harassment, rape, and so on and so forth, that we remember one of them every day, from Roboski to Soma, from Pozant to Berkin, and we continue to live. In particular today's operations with all the power of the state and all the means of war, the word will remain inadequate to human and illegal practices, and the government, even if it is for show, has not moved its hair and has developed comforting rhetoric and actions to make sure that all sorts of limits are crossed. The AKP, which has built its future in a state-run, coup-maker structures, is stuck in the classical swamp of power, and we're raising a generation of religious people by saying, "Believe." We see and know that the power generation is manipulative, competitive, not necessarily pathetic, locked up in doing great things. Today he will bring peace and security to the region. The only one - as you can see here - is the Turkish army. Is it possible that an army writing this could be the army of God? What greater calumny could there be to God? In the verse, who is a greater wrongdoer than to slander God? Why don't you make a noise? Here's the only army of the only commander, his religious army, and two of the thousands of epics he's written! And this is what a soldier did and wrote in a woman's private room, in a family's bedroom. These are two examples of thousands of epics he's written! You and we know very well what they enter in the streets, what they do in the houses, what they write of epics! You say religious generation, but what religious generation of religion? That's not what you're saying. In the Qur'an, neither the unbelievers nor the idolaters were atheists, all are devout. There is not a prophet who has not struggled with conservative religious powers. So it's not about being religious; it's obvious which religion has been brought up by its religious generation. As to the point, in the recent cases of child abuse and rape -- which I think is an apparent part of the iceberg -- power and its allies have taken the same roles of victims and oppressed as always, and have been tried to cover up what happened. Why? For a sacred cause, every means, every kind of price is legitimate. For every life, right, justice, freedom, society, peace can be ignored for the cause and for the purpose of this purpose. Because it is not about right, justice, peace, freedom, and survival; it is about being in power in a greater and more lasting way. Thus, what needs to happen for this primary purpose can only be used or dismissed if necessary. So, the AKP's power is literally caught in the whirlpool of this mindset crisis. After all the violence, rape, execution, torture, murder, corruption, and any injustice, even if the perpetrator is close to it, the power that can gain power, not to the palace, but to the hearts, is my fault, and not to the account. The recent case of child molestation and rape was met with a classic AKP response, and someone said, "It's an isolated situation." Someone said, "We can't keep it," and someone said, "Someone completely ignored it, and someone here is busy making them pay the price."
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0215par0027	You're without conscience, Ms. Hüda, it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0214par0028	Yes, there is harassment and rape. No one will be asked who is responsible or who is responsible.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0215par0029	Or it fits!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0214par0030	As always -- not right, not child, not human rights -- the institution's reputation has been exalted, its struggle and its anxiety are held on. But it is the duty of those who fear none except Allah to exalt the truth, and to raise up justice. But power, not right and justice, is also concerned about raising the palace, the power, the institution. Although power may seem difficult to escape from this vortex of persecution, we will continue to express the facts and call them to the truth. Today's gene question is a factor. I hope, at least, that when it comes to children's rights, the power, the party, the state's rights, justice, conscience, and morality are superior. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0216par0033	Thank you, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0217par0034	I'd expect a conscientious approach from someone who says these things, but you're being unfair, you're being very unfair, it's beneath you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0214par0035	I'm following my conscience.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0216par0036	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Deniz Depboylı, Aydın MP. Here you go, Mr. Depboy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0218par0040	Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers, we received a painful news today before we started speaking, an expert sergeant and a guard of ours have been killed. I offer them God's mercy, my condolences to their relatives, to the Turkish nation. Again, I pray for God's mercy on our fallen descendants while protecting their homeland in Azerbaijan. Today is the 19th anniversary of the arrival of our party's founding leader, the late Alparslan Turkesh Bey to eternity. And I remember him with mercy. He himself called us: "One of the requirements of the Turkish tradition is a high sense of duty, and it is a duty to do it at all costs. Another requirement is to make all kinds of sacrifices in behalf of society; to give up personal interests and personal pleasures in the service of the nation. People sacrifice themselves for the nation, and so will the greatness of the Turkish nation. You will keep him alive, and you will exalt him. I begin to speak with care of the responsibility and the responsibility that he has given to me, one of the precious principles he has taught us. Sadly, the physical and most common sexual abuse of children who have recently come to the attention has hurt us deeply and upset us all. One of the worst and most damned of these events took place in our Karaman province on March 12th. When I think of the uglyness of it, it saddens me to mention the name of our beautiful province in such a terrible event, but it is impossible to put our most precious assets, the location, the people, the problem of our children in the first place, in order not to hurt them. Whatever the matter may be, the ministry for the child's superior benefit must be a priority for all of us. Hopefully, after this date, our Karaman province will be remembered for its beauty and goodness. After this sad incident, the Turkish nation was deeply hurt by the fact that our motion to investigate the abuse of children on which we presented to Parliament as the National Movement Party on February 17, 2016 and brought to Parliament's agenda on March 23, 2016 was initially rejected by AKP votes. However, it is a positive development for the AKP Group to agree to the decision to submit a joint motion by understanding its error and that all groups in parliament can make a mutual decision by having a problem that concerns our children. After all, a commission has been established to protect children from abuse, to investigate sexual abuse, and I wish this commission to be a blessing. In addition to our motion for further research on child abuse, we had a motion to investigate, which was related to our missing children, and unfortunately, again, the AKP vote rejected this motion. It was a motion to investigate the fate of our missing children and to take the necessary precautions against the disappearances. And I want to remind you again, hopefully you'll come back from this mistake because we're very interested in the problems of our missing children, and in the end, we haven't even been able to clear up the number of our children. In addition to the possibility of our children being used by criminal gangs and terrorist organizations, there's a good chance of being physically or sexually abused, I'd like to remind you. Precious surrogates, child abuse is a social problem that affects every aspect of society. Children are unfortunately vulnerable to abuse because they are easily trusted, intimidated, and deceived. The most painful thing about it is that children who have been abused have stopped talking, that they can't ask for help. The abused child is silent because he fears that the family union will be broken; he thinks that no one will believe in him, that his value will be reduced to his parents, that he will be labeled. He can't ask for help because he's intimidated, intimidated, threatened. He won't be able to make a sound because he can't resist the trauma he's been through. He can't because he didn't fully understand what was done to him. The abused child does not know how to express it if I cover the abuse and he does not fully understand why. In his own silence, he is alone in the deepest of pain, loneliness, shame, sadness, and accepts himself as part of this sin. When a study conducted to those who had been abused as a child and did not report it, it revealed that most of them considered themselves guilty, which is 57.7 percent, which is not a number to be underestimated. Some families and adults who witness abuse may not know what to do or where to apply; families may remain silent, thinking that they will be left alone, that it will be reflected in the media, that family honors will be dishonored. The abuse has a negative effect on the family and society he lives in as well as on the child. For these reasons, adults who witness family or event feel that the law can't protect themselves enough, and that if abuse happens within the family, they will be harmed and even killed because they will continue to live with the perpetrator. At this point, one of the most important things about protecting children is the knowledge of how much the law protects children. In this way, each individual with the duties and responsibilities of children will be able to understand their duty better, intervene where they need to, and ask for help from the necessary organs. There are many descriptions of sexual behavioral deviations, paraphilia, explained by psychologists, psychiatrists. I don't want to dwell on these definitions, but I'd like to give you some information about these paraphilims, which I think is important. These people, pedophilians, are not people who are out of sight, who are trying to catch their prey in the dark; anyone's friend may be a well-integrated, unsuspected person. They can be teachers, consultants, senior managers, scout leaders, truck drivers, factory workers, clergy, doctors, anything. And they never talk about their pedophilia tendencies. They try to be in the malls, in the stadiums, in all the public places where children can be found. The fact that a person performs or acts as though he is performing his religious duties does not guarantee that he will not steal, not lie, not steal, not commit corruption, not abuse women or children. You can't separate perverse people as race, religion, gender, profession, age distinction, that's not possible. 60-70 percent of the perpetrators of children's sexual abuse are relatives, teachers, or authoritarians. They rarely force or pressure a child into sexual contact. They often associate with each other through trust and friendship, and in time they begin to use violence and threats. Unfortunately, some of our cultural predispositions make this abuse clear to the children. For example, many factors, such as economic difficulties, girls getting married, children having to study away from family; multi-childhood, living in a small house, can make abuse easier. If we look at all of this information, no matter what the nature of the abuse, no matter where it may take place, the state has to be alert, take all kinds of protective measures, create all kinds of preventive mechanisms, not only the person or persons who committed the crime, but also those who are negligent and imperfect. After this recent traumatic incident, the Minister of Family and Social Policy's ▪ Bad intentions can always be people who abuse things. Once it's been found, there's no reason to defame an institution that's come forward with its services. We know the Ensar Foundation, and we appreciate its services. Its first statement in its form is unfortunate, sad, and wrong. Minister, from the moment you take this assignment, you are no longer a protector of a community, a group, a congregation, a party or a group, but a protector of the state and the nation. No matter what it's called, its purpose, its mission -- which this group can be very well-intentioned, or it can do well-intentioned acts, and you can feel connected to it in your heart, but it's no longer in front of the state and the nation. For you, it is not a group, but anyone who is bound by citizenship to the Republic of Turkey - your priority is the Turkish nation. If you are looking for a group that deserves priority among the Turkish nation, this group must create priority victims. The victim in this case is not the foundation, unfortunately, but the alleged 45 children, 10 found abused children; unfortunately, these are the victims. Children's information is disgusting, creepy, and worrying. Our concern is that we face more than the alleged number of abuse victims. Again, we are concerned about similar neglects and flaws in countless homes and dorms, which are driving us, which are not controlled by the state. Is it unfortunate, reckless, that such a man is involved with the staff or volunteers? No matter what happens, it is the negligence and flaw of the foundation that this man has committed to many children over two and a half years of working and harassing many children over and over again. Even the fact that such a sad and bad event has happened once shows that the government, which governs the state, is inadequate in the measures that children need to take over their safety, and that it is their fault. Because the safety of children who have been promised a better education from their family is not only the responsibility of the institutions that have done so, but also the responsibility of the authorities who have allowed it. Families act on the attitude of state elders who support those institutions and even open them themselves, visit them from time to time and even mention them with praise, thinking that those institutions are trustworthy. That and your attitude will increase your responsibility for institutions twice more. After such an ugly and tragic event, the Minister's approach and explanations are flawed, but he is not the sole owner of the flaw. The minister in charge of the foundations is flawed, imperfect, neglectful because of the lack of regulation of the legislation required for the activities of these organisations, the lack of supervision of services provided by the foundations, the rapidly increasing sub-basement and homes, risking the safety of our children and young. The Minister of National Education, who shuts down village schools and forces our children to move to boarding schools or boarding schools and then closes several boarding schools and then needs our children and young people without control in their homes and homes, is flawed, imperfect, and neglectful. He put on a tie to our children, to our young people, to criminals brought to trial by physical or sexual abuse against our women. All these mistakes are not the product of the last five months; as long as there is power, the AKP governments, who have served and have not corrected these and such problems for thirteen years, and the concerned ministers in these governments have been flawed and negligent. Foundations have a special place in our culture. Among these institutions, some who are responsible and respect the culture of the state and maintain their services with precision have helped to transfer our culture from generation to generation throughout history. In recent years, however, the structures that have begun to take on the responsibility of the state have been a false practice. It is the government's duty to provide services that our children and young people will benefit from during their education and training, to build their homes, to ensure that they continue their studies by completing their needs in a secure environment. It is negligence and irresponsibility for the government to leave its duties and responsibilities to social institutions that it does not control, take precautions, or supervise. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy needs to be a ministry that determines the problems of groups that should be supported by family, children, young, old, disabled, veterans, and martyr relatives. However, when we look at their actions, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is viewed only as a ministry that offers assistance, leaving behind the issues that the Ministry needs to see. So it would be one of the biggest mistakes in our future to look at our ministry as a social fund, to manage the Ministry as a social fund. Unfortunately, until today, the government has seen this Ministry as the institution of continuous election investment. Mr. Secretary, I've been closely monitoring your work plan for family and social support programs, and I wish you success. But there's something you've done wrong about it. We understand that our Finance Ministry has completed visa procedures for the employment of occupational workers through staff service, as long as they have graduated from social services, psychology, sociology, psychological counselling and guidance and so on, so that the programme can continue to be carried out by the budget and tender. However, it is primarily against the Constitution and our laws to receive services through the tender of officials who will be employed under the Family Social Support Programme model. In Article 128 of our Constitution, the main and permanent tasks required by the state's public services are seen by officers and other public officials. Besides, the government's intention to recruit private service recruitment staff employed in public, while the government's ability to employ new subcontractors to carry out its original and permanent duties, demonstrates its inconsistencies. Under the current Constitution and laws, under the ASDEP project, it is contrary to the higher legal norms for graduates, such as social services, psychology, sociology, psychological counseling, and guidance, to employ services based on hiring staff, and a technical requirement for that effect. These friends of ours need to be recruited as staff officers, not subcontractors. Mr. Secretary, apart from all of this, I'd like to remind you that the task you're taking is quite heavy and that it's very sensitive. When you took this assignment, I thought it was the right decision because you were a member of a profession where you worked with people's problems, took care of them, and you were a physician, and you were also a mother. You've learned from experience what a special and heavy responsibility it is to have a child. That's why I thought you'd take advantage of the children if you had any problems with them. In addition to your initial reaction to the abuse, in a documentary prepared by your Ministry -- which I hope you didn't withdraw in the early period, that many people didn't -- it's very important that a young child be shown dressed in a wedding dress to be condemned and associated with it. I'd like to express it to you. Dear Regents, we are here on a very important and very responsible mission. In particular, the responsibility of the ruling Justice and Development Party is many times greater. You do not have the luxury of making mistakes, neglect, imperfection, deception. Our job right now is to warn you where we find you wrong. As the National Movement Party, we have warned you about many things, especially the process of betrayal and dissolution, which you call the solution process, and unfortunately we have experienced many predictions made by our leader, Mr. State Garden. However, you have a habit of not caring for our opinions and opinions, listening, rejecting any suggestions and motions from the opposition. You may have received 49 percent of the vote, but there is a majority left who have assigned us to represent. The fact that you ignore our proposals means that you ignore the majority of them, which we do not recommend to you. One of the biggest mistakes a human or human community can make is vanity. Making a mistake, knowing all the truth from yourself, leads to delusions, mistakes. Just because you're asked to do so, individually, your own opinion, reason, and reason, aside from your conscience, wishes you to give up the illusion of following the decisions you doubt, the Veteran Assembly and...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0219par0067	Mr. Depboy, I'm going to turn on your microphone, please complete your statement.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0218par0068	I'll repeat my last sentence then.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0219par0069	Yes, of course.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0218par0070	And just because you're asked to do so, I personally urge you to put aside your own opinion, reason, and conscience, and to give up the illusion of following the decisions you doubt, the Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation, I salute you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0219par0073	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, İstanbul MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0220par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, as the People's Democratic Party, I have made a promise to the Minister of Family and Social Policy about his client. There's no government, there's no power, there's about 30 deputies, and we're talking child abuse, and I'd like to present it to the knowledge of the children and our people.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0221par0081	The government is here.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0222par0082	The government is in the back, the Council of Ministers is in progress.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0220par0083	As you know, in the houses of the Ensar Foundation and KAIMDER, it has been discovered that so far, the boy whose number has reached 45 ▪ has been sexually abused. So far, the perpetrator is one, but actually a lot of connections have surfaced. This person's activities from 2012 to today were included on several news sites with details. As a result of their experience with Karaman, a psychologist who did not want to go to school identified this abuse and applied to the prosecutor's office. On March 4th, the police who went to school detained the perpetrator teacher Muharrem Büyükturk, and the next began the cover-up process. There is nothing more destructive in society than to have influence and to use your position and influence to your advantage. Imagine if the local website, which reported this incident, were to remove the literature. In Karaman, people are afraid to talk about power and influence, and they're afraid to turn a blind eye. As you know, there is protocol for opening a home through the Ministry of National Education, which can be opened and operated by this protocol. These dorms can only accommodate middle school and higher education students, whereas we are talking about children of nine to ten years of age. Houses and lodgings, called the yurt, are run without protocol, and these houses are very common in Anatolia. The law says it's a crime, but it's condoned; everyone knows that these houses exist, and when it turns out that there's child abuse in the homes, there's not a single comment from the Ministry of National Education or the Ministry of Family and Social Policy on the status of these illegally operated homes. What are the standards of opening the Ensar Foundation's institutions? What ministry is the ministry that supervises standards and allows them to open? What are the basics for child care services provided in the application for a permit, and what are the hiring grounds for personnel? What maintenance model is being implemented in these institutions? Answer: There is no standard, no principle, no permit, no criteria, no control. Since children living in these houses are in elementary school, these houses cannot be home status. Since children are not in line with the definition of the law that they are in need of protection, these houses are not in the status of private day care homes. On 11 June 2014, the invitation to the KAIMDER poetry play said that the poems would be read by students staying at the KAIMDER student house. Karaman County National Education Director Asim Sultanoglu is attending this event. Muharrem Büyükturk, suspected of abuse, is performing with the children that day. Again, Asim Sultanoğlu is being photographed with students staying at the KaIMDER house and Muharrem Büyükturk. After his visit, we came to chat with the students at our home. Mashallah, the children are like diamonds. He writes. However, the same National Education Director answers to the question of whether the prosecutor's office is the homes of KAMDER and Ensar Foundation in the city. What happens when the trial of this person who has made a false statement to the prosecution has to increase the sentence by half, since the crime is tied to his duty by a public official? This person is practically promoted to Antalya County Directorate. Yes, everyone is being denied what they know. Although the Children's Ensar Foundation told them that they were staying in their homes, even though everyone in Karaman knew who owned the houses, the Ensar Foundation could say that the houses had nothing to do with us. In addition to the State National Education Director, did you open an investigation into Karaman Governor Murat Saca, director of KAIMDER, Karaman Ensar Foundation President Ali Bağcı, Ensar Foundation Chairman Cenk Dilberoglu, to open an illegal studenthouse, and to make evidence a mistrial, Mr. Secretary? Yes, the State and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy responsible for protecting children have a responsibility to prevent them. A policy against child abuse has not developed a national action plan for many years, while the relevant ministries should give public self-criticism, while the responsible ministers should resign, statements from the ministers have come to support the foundation in succession. The most hurtful thing was that Minister of Family and Social Policy Sema Ramazanoglu (a.k. a.k. a. once-in-a. a.k.a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. Is that a minister's priority and first word? How did you know it happened once? Is that where you've been sleeping? Besides, why wouldn't once be a reason to defame an institution? Has your child, your relative, ever been abused? If you did, would you protect that institution first? There was a reason that so many government officials came to the Prime Minister. The foundations were consciously protected, protected because it wasn't actually abuse at any foundation. We're going to raise a generation of Dindar by Erdogan. It was the collapse of the education strategy he shared with the public. Erdogan described the state as a hard-working institution that fell into the hands of cumbersome, misguided minds, with a huge gap between society and individual, and he was posting the training mission on these foundations instead of the state. Who could have said anything about Erdogan's project? Neither have you, nor have you surprised any of us. But as much as the foundation was stretched out, it was not easy to cover it up. Following the minister's remarks, many other names related to the Ensar Foundation have been sexually abused by children using their previous positions. At the Erdogan Ensar Foundation event, we removed the nine-year-old debris. When you say, someone used the morality they had taken on their influence and monopoly as a stick on society to turn the children's lives into a wreck. In an interview last year, the President of the Ensar Foundation said that after closing houses in the Laughing Congregation, they quickly opened dorms to meet the need for housing. So a project was launched, and instead of the benefit of the children, political advice was at the forefront. The standards, the qualifications and characteristics of staff and volunteers that children's institutions should observe were of no importance, such as monitoring. Being respected in society was basically enough to be close to their own politics, to open a country, to volunteer. All these lack of control and political decisions have led to the abuse of children. I want to say it over and over again: you hurt the children, you hurt the children badly. I don't know how you're going to make it up to me, what foundation, what project or project was worth it, what kids were going through. As a minister who is responsible for protecting the children, those responsible will be identified. How, instead, do we know each other? You could say, "Trusted." What effect do you think those words have on the public? Will everyone who has a responsibility be tried, or will there be a preventive policy against child abuse now, or will institutions close to the government be protected? Is it a minister's duty to protect the institution where the abuse took place, or to give self-criticism and resign because he failed to fulfill his positive obligations to prevent child abuse? The press today reveals information about the government's captors. He is a professor of theology at the University of Thrace and Vice President Hüseyin Sarıoğlu, professor of theology; his books are published by the Ensar Foundation. İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality has received a large amount of books without contract from the Ensar Foundation. The municipality paid $110,000 for these books in 2011, $123,500 in 2012, $111,000 in 2013, and $147,663 in 2014. The FBI has informed us that the person in question has downloaded several children's pornography videos. This person's house was operated on, and his computer had several children's pornography videos on it. Are we going to live as a country that gets information, tips, intelligence from the U.S.? By what right can the city, which has not opened enough shelters for women in Istanbul for years, have budgeted our money to buy the books of these abusers? Again, Mehmet Nuri Gezmis, president of the Rize Ensar Foundation from 2001 to 2003, is a person who spent between 1983 and 1987 under investigation on charges of sexual abuse of young boys during his teaching in Kulp district of Diyarbakır. Despite this investigation into you, the Ensar Foundation has not been blamed for being brought into the presidential office. Furthermore, he was brought to Rize County Department of Social Services, served as the head of the Redlay Rize Branch in 2005, abused and eventually arrested two more children while carrying out the mission. Another name, Mustafa Islamoglu, has been invited to the Artvin Ensar Foundation Kutlu Birth programme, despite being convicted of child abuse for two and a half years, and has spoken to children at the conference. Now we're back to the days when the torturers were promoted, and the rapists were promoted, and you're not responsible at all? The Lanzarote Convention, approved by Turkey on 7 December 2011 and entered into force on April 2012, responsibilities the entity states to register and preserve information of convicted sex offenders. In Turkey, however, child abusers can even chair institutions that work with children, much less watch the past. How can there be no background, no record of abuse, of someone who's going to be put in charge of an institution that works with children? The news of child abuse came from all over Turkey following the news of what had happened in Karaman. Yes, it turns out that Sefer A., a retired teacher of Koran at Hatip High School, Hağuren Anadolu Imam Hatip High School, sexually abused 12 girls. At the Sivas Boys' Nursing Home last December and January, 35 students from the 12-18-year-old group were said to have been living together in a dorm where older children were raped, while officials at home did not even write up a report. The dorm manager has left his post in a hurry. A 17-year-old girl studying at Anadolu Health Care High School in Ağrı took her own life hanging herself in a headscarf at a student's boarding house. In the investigation, it turned out that sexual abuse caused the suicide. Friends, one of the five children in the world is said to have been exposed to a form of abuse. Unfortunately, the only data we have on Turkey -- the only data transmitted by the institutions -- is how many child abuse cases are being filed, how many have been sued and how many have been punished; we have no other information. Research was left to the initiative of NGOs and academics. Official agencies don't keep data, they don't do research. The Council of Europe Convention on Lanzarote has no monitoring mechanism for sexual abuse and exploitation, which is essential to preventing abuse, and neither children nor perpetrators are being monitored. Given what needs to be done to prevent child abuse, is the state watching the child from the pregnancy? No. Does a family doctor and a pediatrician follow the teacher periodically until the child reaches the age of school? No.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0223par0103	It does, it does.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0220par0104	Is there a neighborhood-level community service that supports the child at all times? No. Have all the public officials working with the children been informed to pursue child neglect and abuse? Are health workers and educators trained to report child abuse to legal and social workers? Is there a child protective system consisting of public servant, teacher, doctor, social worker? Does the child regularly conduct contact with the government through these officials? No, no, no. Are the children's capacity for self-preservation strengthened? Do children train against child abuse? Do we know if the children want to go to these houses of their own free will? No. Do they know they can report it to the public personnel they're in contact with if they're being abused? Do they have access to justice? No. Those who commit crimes against sexual immunity are being punished for the child's consent. Is this the way the legal process works when the law predicts only one interview with children and that this meeting be recorded for further use? No. Most of the children are interviewed multiple times, and the children receive several physical examinations. When there is abuse, do children feel that the great injustice that has been done to them has been compensated, that the criminal has been punished, that justice has been done, that they no longer have to worry? I'm afraid not again. On the contrary, punishment discourages children and relatives to seek justice for sexual abuse. We'd like to put this whole thing in a row, and we'd like to say that you're pretending to do what you can't do, and don't talk about good faith or anything like that. The roads leading to hell are paved with good faith stones. You know we have a saying. Besides, you're putting the kids through hell today with this practice or not doing it. Children are smart, sensitive, and it's possible to make up for their injuries, but when we look at your way of making amends and practices, it's a nightmare. You put them in rehab, where even their favorite snacks are collected, where they have no freedom. You're trying to build F-type children's homes so they don't hurt themselves. Know that We do not give them their account in the Hereafter. When we say "kid," the water stops flowing. And courage is also contagious, friends, but if we can't conclude that courage with access to justice and accountability, and if we can't satisfy the feelings of justice of the children, those who love them at all, none of us can walk around this country with our heads held high; no political economy, position can hold your head straight. So you're in this position today and you're in charge, Mr. Secretary, and you're going to have to give this account today. Why did you go to America during all this, Mr. Secretary? Is it time to go to America with all the child abuse screaming going up everywhere? Aren't you supposed to be in Karaman, Manisa, or elsewhere where there's news of abuse? Do you know how many children are being abused as we speak? Leave the children alone, think for a moment. Imagine some rude man forcing you into a room, touching your body, destroying your privates; it may be painful, hurtful, but think about it, you can't tell anyone, you can't reach them, and how would you feel? Yeah, you didn't do anything about not just the kids, you didn't do anything about preventing violence against women. The LGBTs don't even exist in your power, they don't exist, you think they don't exist. And the Ministry is a ministry of welfare based solely on kindness. You are expected to be the Ministry of Social Policy, not social welfare, but civil rights. Yes, Mr. Ramazanoglu, and you didn't do anything to make sure the budget didn't have a war budget. In the southeast, when women and children were dying and naked bodies were dragged on the floor, you didn't say a word about it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0224par0112	I'll turn on your microphone, finish your words Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0220par0113	Thank you. You are responsible for implementing the National Children's Rights Strategy Document and Action Plan, under the Children's Rights Convention, Mr. Secretary. But as we can see, instead of doing something about this responsibility, you choose to protect the indictee institutions.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0225par0115	Sing for the children on the mountain, and say two words for them.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0220par0116	As a result, Mr. Ramazanoglu has created a serious public suspicion, encouraging the perpetrators, by securing responsible institutions, such as abuse and violence, which he cannot prevent. For all these reasons, it is imperative that the Minister be removed from his post. We need a minister who looks after women and children more than ever today. We have no patience, no patience. Now we want to live in a safe country for ourselves and for the children, and all our people want it, and the people who have collected almost 300,000 signatures want it, and we will always continue to raise their voice in this House. My respects.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0226par0119	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Candan Güceer, Tekirdağ MP. Here you go, Mr. Supreme. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0227par0124	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group on the motion for a geneorization of Mr. Sema Ramazanoglu, Minister of Family and Social Policy. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, in fact, I wish no child had been hurt, but the members of power, including Mr. Secretary, wish they hadn't thought, "Woe to us, they're touching our people!" (Laughter) But when children are abused, once they are raped, there is no reason to defame an institution with their services. If it is said, there are many questions, many things to talk about. [[Applause from CHP rows]] First of all, it's important to point out that no one's smearing anyone; whoever hasn't done their duty, whoever hasn't done their inspection, whoever's ignoring them, whoever's letting these foundations open, whoever's opening these foundations, whoever's just watching them, we want them to be exposed. It's not slander, Mr. Secretary, it's searching for the truth; it's just searching for the truth. These children's parents trusted their parents, entrusted their children, and if you've watched them be abused while you're looking after these children, then we'll have to answer for it, and we'll have to answer for it. If the government doesn't even bother to inspect these homes, if they don't open their homes and leave children at the mercy of cults, foundations, associations, then we'll ask them if they allow them to be opened even though they're never legal. We have to answer for this, if someone's holding these children, where they're going to surround their families, saying, "Don't let our parents get hurt first. " To ask this account, there is no need to be guilty, to be MP, not to be part of a party, precious MPs, it takes a human being to ask this account. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Let's put aside international contracts, commitments, Constitution, legislation, what happens if he writes it in the law or not. I'm sorry if those innocent kids are hurt, kids are hurt, and someone still needs to defend someone because they're close, and if they're trying to clean them up, then I'm sorry, the bill must be paid, precious MPs. Such violence, such abuse, will not be ours. Children in question, child abuse is at stake; what kind of mental illness this is, I really find it difficult to understand. Government officials, government officials, are not required to defend the Ensar Foundation. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, look at the service. No, they're fine. It's not really your job to say it. Your job, opposition parties, let's set up a mission, investigate.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0228par0130	The commission has been established.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0229par0131	First you refused, and then you came back ashamed of the public reaction.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0227par0132	The commission, yes, it's established, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's Would it be too much if the first opposition party MPs had given it, if the commission had been set up? Why are we setting it up? Would we lose too much or lose too much?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0228par0133	It's all set up, it's all set up.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0227par0134	Would we suffer from researching sexual abuse, researching the causes that have abused our children, dear congressman? Do you really want to say that just because someone's close to someone, someone's seeing the president of this foundation after their wife, what should we do, not investigate it? I don't accept it, and frankly, I doubt the humanity of those who accept it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0230par0135	He won't accept a public conscience.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0227par0136	Dear lawmakers, I think we can all agree that if it's about children, child abuse, there's no religion, no dianeti, no politics; there's no me, there's no you, there's no one here; there's no one here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, of course, there's the principle of the personality of crime in this country, but if there are 650 children, under the age of 11,052, aged 12 to 14, 2,651, aged 15, 387, victims of sexual crimes, about 20,000 lawsuits against children's sexual integrity, if almost half of all sexual assaults are committed against children, then 650 children must be investigated each month, not covered up until the end. If 11.095 children are victims of sexual crimes, Turkey should be asked what is happening if it is ranked third in the world's child abuse ranking. Which, to be realistic, is just the tip of the iceberg, and we know that the numbers that correspond to the forensic authorities in child sexual abuse, the numbers that reflect 10 to 15 percent, so you guys think about the size of it. God knows how many other abuses there are that don't show up at the courthouse, don't report to the police. We don't just talk about statistics, no matter how many incidents there are, we're also talking about injuries that can't be closed. I'd like to point out that we're talking about these innocences that the government is supposed to protect but can't. We have to talk this through, so we're here. How do we eliminate this situation, why can't we stop the abuse of children? What obstacles do we have ahead of us, what measures need to be taken, but we can't prevent child abuse? We've seen that it's not enough to come up here and curse, curse, punish criminals, and our society has to face these crimes. ▪ Not in our society. It means the same thing as just burying our heads in the sand. That's right, our society is very sensitive about this, but it has to be said that these child abusers didn't come down from heaven, they didn't come from space, that's the result of something going wrong in our society. It's said that this heresy is also found in other countries. To say that, I assure you, the valued lawmakers do not make this violence understandable, nor can they remove problems from society. So, other societies, the societies that have been seen, they can face this problem, they don't cover it up, they go at it. Look, after the abuse of children in Karaman was discovered, there were dozens of similar abuses and rapes reported within a week. There was a new abuse in Niğde, Gaziantep, Diyarbakır, Ankara, Burma, and Sivas. I mean, the worst thing to do against child abuse is try to cover it up, ignore it. Experts say that -- you know -- families tend to cover things up so that our child doesn't become an outcast. In fact, it's the worst thing that's ever been done, to ignore it, to pretend it didn't happen. Well, that's what our society has to face. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, but it is the state we must face here, the government, the rulers. If the foundations, which are expressed by tens of thousands, are legally illegal, and they are not supervised, and these dorms are tolerated, and these foundations are supported, and unfortunately, those poor family children are being sentenced to these dorms so that our children can read, we must face it. I've expressed it before on this bench, and I don't have a tongue in Karaman, but one of them raped those children over and over again for two or three years. If no one realizes it, if they don't see it, then the ears are deaf, the hearts are deaf. And we have to face it. The Forensic Medical Association has committed suicide ten days after this report, and in suicide, the court did not need to prosecute or prosecute. The courts also included the rape of 26 members of the state institutions, N. C. He didn't stand up to rapes, as in his trial, and he had the right to do so, and if he didn't even punish the perpetrators on such absurd grounds as he was aware of everything, or the report of sexual abuse of the Chapa and Surgeon General Forensics Department against the risk of sexual abuse by the European Court of Human Rights, the courts have acquitted the young girl's father, and there's no harm if they see him. I'd blow myself up at the checkpoint if I had to fight a Syrian girl in TRT, with all the opposing views closed, or with that understanding, we'd be indifferent to the question of the children in a magazine published by Dianet, where they'd be able to make children the subject of war without any supervision, legitimizing live bombs, justify the actions of jihadist organizations, and we'd have to face that understanding, or we'd be indifferent to the children in a magazine where death and martyrdom were raised. Is this the future you're giving the kids, the life you're going for, for God's sake? Instead of giving children a beautiful future, I'd like to say that I'd rather be a live bomb than a living bomb, to glorify death, to make children victims of abuse, traumatized by trauma -- I'm sorry -- I don't accept it, I don't accept it, I don't accept it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, of course we have to face you. I'm so curious. When you put your head on the pillow tonight, do you sleep well? So instead of hugging the children under your responsibility, are you really comfortable embracing a foundation that you feel close to? Do you have inner peace? Did you really feel embarrassed when your party rejected our proposal to the lawmakers' research commission? A Koran student at a public education centre in Ankara is on trial for thirty-six and a half years on charges of sexual abuse against a 7-year-old girl, but still at his post, are you not offended by this? Or don't you feel uncomfortable writing under the image of a little girl who was used as a bride in the Women's Day video by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy? For God's sake, don't you have something tied up in your throat when children wear wedding dresses the size of their hands? I'm so curious, is this really how you protect children's rights? Look, why do you feel you have to defend the Ensar Foundation in a disgusting incident in Karaman? If they have any negligence -- if they have any flaws -- which they have, let them do their time, why are you at the front of the line of defense? Why are you defending me? Is it your job to look at the victims' children so they don't have to be other cases, to investigate, to increase the control mechanisms, to protect the children, to prevent that abuse, or to defend a foundation that you find close to yourself? You must resign, Mr. Secretary. There is corruption in this country, and no one thinks of resigning. Every day in this country, people live in fear of terror, daily news of martyrdom, the Home Secretary doesn't have a resignation in mind. The governor, who watched this violence in Karaman, does not even consider resigning from the head of borough education, who does not oversee the foundations, the dorms. So quit and set a good example, or at least apologize to our people. (HPP) Apologize, say, "Yes, a child can't protect itself, it's for adults, it's for the state, and I can't do it." Say, "Resign."
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0231par0147	Your president has lost seven elections, why isn't he resigning, Congressman?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0227par0148	I assure you, by doing so, you can at least contribute to the solution. Dear lawmakers, no doubt we all want to offer our children a better life than the one we inherited. We want to give them a peaceful, peaceful future. I'm sure one of the most important gifts for all of us is the laughter of our babies, of our children, and I'm sure we can agree on that. Unfortunately, in this country, children's laughter fades, their faces fade. Not just because of abuse, but because they can't benefit from education, because they're forced to get married at a child's age, because of poverty, gunshots in the streets, the deaths next to them, the laughter of these children fades. There are over a million children working in this country in the age of play. One of every three marriages is a child. They have their own babies where they can play with dolls. (CHEERING) In this country, children can't get out of the spiral of poverty. They're born in poor homes, they're born in poor homes. He can't take advantage of his education rights in this country, kids. The government leaves them at the mercy of the dorms, the foundations, the cults. Their minds are being shut down in this country, your children. They want our children to always bow down and listen. They want them to be spiteful generations. All this makes your children lose their smile. In addition, they are abused in schools, dorms, courses, nursing homes. We rain curses, but we can't protect them. The number of cases reflected only in the courthouse in a year is 11,000. It's the truth; it's a very painful fact. Dear MPs, I am coming to the last moments of my speech, and I sincerely want to express with my heart that if we are going to make law, let's make law, let's sit down and talk about punishments; let's talk about wrongs in our education system, let's get these cults, these foundations running around the table as they please. Let's face the fact that sexual abuse is not uncommon, that it is common, that one of every five children may be sexually abused at least once in their lifetime. Let's not be taboo, let's sit down and talk about it. Let's not put politics and protection reflex ahead of child's rights, turn this sensitivity in our society into awareness. Let's fight all the children's sexual abuse. Let us set an example from here, from our country, to the world, to the international community. Let's change the future of our children. Come, let's not let our children's laughter fade. But when the child's sexual abuse is over, when we don't hurt our children, we can build a healthy country and an evening future. There's an Iranian musician, Farid Farjad, who puts the pain in the notes, and he has a saying: I say pain, sir, it has to be universal, and if a child has a thorn in his hand, man must burn. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0232par0154	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mehmet Akif Yilmaz is an MP from Kopeeli. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0233par0159	The AKP is sending a message here, even by making men talk, so really. Bravo, I mean, bravo!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0234par0160	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0235par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge to my group on the abomination and inhuman sexual abuse committed by a scoundrel who has sold his soul to the devil and on the violence against our women, on the cases of our mothers, on the family and social policy minister Sema Ramazanoglu. I hereby salute our great coven and our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers, today we're talking about the moral problems that, as a universal moral problem, not just our country, but the moral problems that rot the world's societies from the inside, from the outside, from the nature of man to the inferior form of animals. They accuse the continuation of our generation and the fundamental stake of society of adultery, adultery, prostitution, co-sexuality, rape, child abuse; alcohol and drug abuse that threatens the human mind; human murder, terror and violence against women who are trying to kill us; all of these moral crimes are forbidden by our Grand Creator, the One who created us, created us, and ruled the universe. God, the Almighty, warns mankind of these immoral acts: There is no human being in the world or in the Hereafter who can claim that there is a painful punishment in the world or in the Hereafter, to destroy our world, to cause great corruption among the believers, to spread corruption on the earth, to spread corruption that cannot be avoided. Human history is full of examples of people rotting away by the spread of these crimes. To us, the life, the mind, the property, the generation, the family, they are all the most precious holy to a healthy society, the continuation of human existence. It must be the most important duty of us politicians, who carry the burden of the nation on their backs, preventing the spread of evils that I consider to be the protection of our holy ones. By turning this matter into a substance of abuse, our civil society organizations, particularly our Ministry of Family and Social Policy, who are interested in education, who are concerned about the problems of our young people...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0236par0165	Who is it? Who is it? Tell me about it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0235par0166	...and using them to undermine power...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0236par0167	What are you defending the Ensar Foundation?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0235par0168	...trying to collect political rants from such an important moral problem is not and should not be the method of opposition to society.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0236par0169	Who's the NGO? Let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0235par0170	All the parts of our society, especially our NGOs...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0236par0171	Oh, you Ensars!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0235par0172	...the responsibility of written, visual and social media is no doubt too great. The ideal of building a decent, virtuous, powerful, and prosperous society, which we describe as humane, to add value to society, should be our common goal. I would especially like to thank our Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the President of the Diet Affairs, who has created important work in co-ordinating this goal in order to create a strong moral system as a matufic.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0237par0174	Oh, shit!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0235par0175	I also condemn any opposition parties who try to prevent the spread of religious and moral education, starting in the pre-school years, and prevent all legal regulations and practices from adopting our moral values as a way of life.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0237par0177	Oh, shit!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0235par0178	For a hundred years, it has been those who have viciously attacked the Koran, the Koran, the people who have seen the Qur'an as a crime by defending the abandonment of Islam, those who have been disturbed by religion and moral education, those who have laid the groundwork on the swamps that have produced this immorality.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0238par0180	Bakara reel!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0237par0181	The ones who call it "Bakara?"
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0235par0182	These shameful events should teach us all a lesson. In order to ensure that our society's confidence in our official or private institutions remains intact, it is our basic approach to ensure that the administrators and teachers of our institutions, whom we entrust our children to, are carefully elected, never compromised by the principles of driver's license and integrity, and that the necessary control mechanisms are operated in a very strict and disciplined manner, and that the managers with the slightest negligence or flaw in such events are punished. The intentional wear-down of our official or civilian institutions, which strive to achieve this goal, is to overcome the purpose of criticism and turn it into a political lingo, putting a bullet in our foot as a political institution. Dear lawmakers, what have we done as a political party in our country for 14 years, in the face of these moral problems of the modern age, which are so rapidly spreading with technological advances? We began with legal and institutional arrangements for family, children, women, disabled, elderly, martyr relatives and veterans, as a priority for the disadvantaged parts of our society. We have combined social aid and services under one roof by revising and multiplying social programs that have been outdated and do not serve the purpose. In 2011, we committed our Ministry of Family and Social Policy to the merger of our five headquarters. During 14 years of EC PARTY governments, our citizens met the social government closely and saw the power, resources, and compassion of the state at their side. We've divided the income from economic growth and development into social policies. For a comparison of our nation, I would like to mention in particular: the budget for social policy in 2002 was 121 million,620,000 dollars. Ten years later, in our time, with our ministry being committed, the rate has increased 28 times and increased by 3 billion to 280 million euros, and today, 203 times in 2016 to 24 billion 779 million euros. My esteemed representatives, at the beginning of our ministry's most important tasks, we are coming to conduct and coordinate protective, preventive, educational, developmental, guidance and rehabilitative social services for our children. Our ministry adopted our children's service policies with a new family-oriented understanding, the use of adoption or foster care for the purpose of returning them to the family first, as a goal for children to be placed in places that we have created, where we call foster homes when that is not possible. I'd like to share with you some of the activities that our ministry has been implementing in matters of child abuse and violence against the child. With the assistance of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice and staff, 48 Children's Watch Centres within the Ministry of Health hospitals have first come to life during the EC PARTI rule. In these centers, services are offered to prevent the lives of the victims during the process and to ensure their privacy, to ensure that legal and medical procedures are carried out in a centre of educated people in this area and at one time. For the first time, our children's support center, called the Children's Support Centre, was first committed during the EC PARTI period; the victim of crime, 67 CODEM centers were established to serve in the streets and at risk to children, and today we serve our children across Turkey. In 2014, the amendments to the Turkish Penal Code and crimes against sexual immunity were reorganised, and the punishments envisioned for these crimes were significantly increased. In addition, the National Action Plan for Violence Against Children and Women, which will cover 2015-2019, was drafted in the co-ordinator of our Department of Child Services. My esteemed representatives, for the first time in 24 November 2011, the Council of Europe's Convention on violence against women, preventing violence and domestic violence against women and fighting them was approved by us in this Parliament before any other country. The Law on Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against Women was adopted on March 8, 2012 and entered into force. The Turkish Penal Code, which took effect on 1 June 2005, had modern regulations on gender equality and violence against women. The charge of deliberately killing was sentenced to the highest punishment of the perpetrators, adding a statement to the article, which required a life sentence of aggravated life imprisonment. It was drafted by the National Action Plan to Fight Violence Against Women in 2016-2019. Across the country, the number of women in the Ministry -- the number of women who were subjected to violence -- the number of women in our state's guesthouses where our government reached out their hands in 2011 was 65, and now the number has been reached to 137, and has our women at 3.442 capacity. In order to serve women victims of violence, we continued to serve with 25 centers by opening our first reception units to our women's guesthouses. We tried to take care of them by assigning allowances to our women and children who served in our guesthouses. Forty-three anti-violent and monitoring centers have now entered the ministry and continue their activities in our time in order to prevent violence against women. Our esteemed representatives, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy, also carry out an intensive education and efforts to raise social sensitivity in the issue of child abuse and violence against women through the protocols of our National Education, Justice, Internal Affairs, Health Ministry and the Ministry of Diet Affairs. Here, I've shared with you a very small portion of the work that has been conducted in coordination with many of our ministries. Our ministry, which provides a selfless study of the most disadvantaged parts of our society, is going on these issues with zero tolerance, as our Minister puts it. We would like to share with our Parliament and our nation specifically that we show no hesitation in the fact that from the moment the incident occurred, we will begin the necessary investigations, and that the low-down and low-down perpetrators will receive the most severe punishment necessary, and that those who have been negligent and flawed in the matter will also be given the necessary warnings and punishments, and that we will not hesitate in any way. As for the general question we've been discussing, during the pre-EC PARTY republical governments, we've opened our resources to all the communities that the state has never looked at, let alone reached out, and we've fought to take care of them as much as possible. Our lonely, victimized women, widows and orphans, our children left on the street, our elderly, disabled citizens, our patients, for the first time in our time, they met the merciful, hugging, serving face of our state. The mentalitys that once held a citizen hostage because he had no money in his own hospital, the mentalitys that prevented him from taking scholarship aid to the Constitutional Court that were distributed to our students, leaving our children in the laps of streets, mafias and gangs for years...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0239par0203	Everything's so beautiful now. There's nothing.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0235par0205	...seeing mental aid as a voter in the code of the mind, the hypocritical politicians who have scribbled our social policies at this minimum at every opportunity, but today in their promises in the polls, the aid packets are flying in the air, of course they will not be able to digest the social policies of the AK PARTI government. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, I'd like to talk about a very important moral issue. My child can't stop Ramadan from carrying the signs, with his banners, with his banners, with his co-existence, with his co-existent rights. You're expected to have a big question. You have already been condemned to the conscience of this nation's apocalypse, which you betrayed its trust, peace, democracy, and the hope of peace with the lie of Turkey. (ARK PARTI) You chose to make politics in the public's heart, in the shadow of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and YPG. Now, I salute all of you, our high Council and our mighty nation, who sees violence and terror as a legitimate means of seeking rights, and in the shadow of violence, politics in the shadow of terror, this dark and hypocritical mind of darkness and hypocrisy, fighting to solve the issues of violence and abuse.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0240par0210	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0241par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0240par0212	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0241par0213	Mr. Orator, in reference to an event that has been attended by some of our lawmakers before...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0242par0214	What program did they join?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0241par0215	...in general vice abuse. If you'll excuse us, Ms. Hüda Kaya will speak on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0243par0216	Mr. Huda Kaya, please. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I give you my word under Article 69.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0244par0219	Are you going to praise gayness, Mr. Hüda Kaya?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0243par0220	Please use your right to answer in a way that does not challenge a taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0244par0221	Are you going to praise gayness there now, Huda Kaya?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0245par0222	He's gonna ask you what to say? Unbelievable!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0246par0225	There is not only the people of Lot in the history of the prophets, but also the people of Shuaib.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0247par0226	It's stuck!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0246par0227	Stealing, immorality, slander, favoring men is religious...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0248par0228	You've given him a very difficult task, Mr. Baluken, and now you've ruined it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0249par0229	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0246par0230	...as you hid behind the flag, hiding behind the religion of the Koran...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0248par0231	You've finished her now.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0250par0232	Congressmans, please, sir, please...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0246par0233	You're trying to legitimize a rape on the boy.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0251par0234	We curse, we curse.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0246par0235	Neither will these immoralitys be covered behind the flag, nor will these lies be hidden by hiding behind the Koran, by hiding behind the religion when you are trapped.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0252par0236	You're hiding. Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0253par0237	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0246par0238	The banners cannot cover their shame; neither does the Qur'an cover lies, slander, harassment, violence, execution, murder, violence, nor religion.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0254par0240	Is that what the candle says?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0246par0241	When we look at the whole of the government's health care system, the whole of the child welfare institutions, almost all of the children are drug addicts or bad habits.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0255par0242	Let him go, let him go, why did you take your word for it? Answer what you were promised.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0246par0243	The state does not have the right to speak to us behind the flag, behind the Koran, and behind the religion.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0255par0244	Did your deputies go to those meetings? Answer him.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0256par0245	Is that what the candle says?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0255par0246	Did your deputies go to the LGBTI meeting or not? Answer him.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0257par0247	Look, I couldn't find it; here at this moment, I can give you the picture, I can give you the picture; I'll take pictures of Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan saying what he said about them in his election studies, with the flags of gays in his meetings, and I'll send them to you. I can't find it. I'll send it to you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0258par0249	Find it and say it. Don't say what you didn't find.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0257par0250	Friends, if you refer so much to the Koran...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0258par0252	Don't you?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0257par0253	That's why I'm talking.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0259par0254	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0260par0255	Shame on you! What kind of language are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0257par0256	...to be human before the Qur'an, to refuse to lie...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0261par0257	Go back to them, tell the terrorist organization, turn around, turn around, tell the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0260par0258	Shame on you! If you've got something, come out and talk. Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0257par0259	He denies murder, he denies theft.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0262par0260	What were you promised?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0257par0261	As we drive hundreds, thousands of officers overnight for our own children, we need to take care of our children who have been abused and raped.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0263par0263	Why can't you answer?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0257par0264	I just did.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0264par0265	Wow! And gayness.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0257par0266	It's not about gay, it's about being human, it's about being human.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0265par0267	Thank you, Mr. Rock. Now I promise the government. Sema Ramazanoglu, Minister of Family and Social Policy. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0276	Mr. President, I'm here on behalf of the esteemed MPs, on the basis of the motion for the geneorization submitted by the HDP Group. I salute your high council. As I begin with my words, I remember all our martyrs who sacrificed their lives for their country, nation, and faith with mercy and gratitude, and to our heroic soldiers, to our policemen, to our guards, to our citizens who died in terrorist attacks, to God's mercy, to their relatives, and to our nation. I wish that the world and our country's security would be established at once. Dear lawmakers, as Ministry of Family and Social Policy, we serve all our citizens and foreign guests who need help with rights and a human-based perspective. It's a service to our people. From the first day we set out with this love, we continue to take sides with the victims, as always, by focusing on human and human life. We continue to struggle with zero tolerance for violence, negligence and abuse against our children and women, especially by resisting any discrimination. Dear lawmakers, the work of our governments over the past 14 years has been done by those who have failed in the history of the republic, cannot be done. The success of what is said is a period of things that can't be imagined.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0267par0280	We couldn't imagine, and we couldn't imagine that, we couldn't imagine abuse of children.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0268par0281	We couldn't imagine any of this happening, thanks to you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0283	The budget for social benefits and social services increased from 1.3 billion Turkish liras in 2002 to 25 billion Turkish dollars today. The scope of our practices in the field of family and social policy has been expanded, and soon our services have spread throughout society. Our country has sided with 15 of the Convention on Human Rights in international law. As such, it is ranked in the top category, leaving behind many developed countries. Many of these have been fulfilled in the days of our governments. However, those who have no words to say take advantage of certain issues, occupying the agenda with false accusations and slanders, sometimes bringing new burdens to the victim's victim's victim's victim's victim's victim. In action from this inhuman abuse against children, certain circles have been running a smear campaign against our country that has been low and treacherous for some time. In fact, these devoid of morality and conscience have exceeded the limits of decency and privacy and have spoken unspeakable words, including myself and my family. I would also like to point out that I am legally and legally fighting against those who create negative perception by occupying our country with lies and slanders. This mindset, which began by distorting the sentences I used on the subject, changed the beginning and end of my sentences into a smear campaign on social media.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0269par0288	You're using it, without changing it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0289	From a neutral point of view, my explanation would appear to have been completely distorted, attempted to operate on the victims with malicious intent. At the beginning of my talk, my words are: "We are acting with zero tolerance, and we will not be able to do anything about it, either with our legal regulations or with our practical practice, like any good behavior or tolerance for good behavior. These are my words. "
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0270par0291	Come on, there's never been a rapist who's had as good a stay as you have in your day!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0292	Before any of this was brought up, my statement was turned into a deliberate smear campaign. On a question asked about the Ensar Foundation and the guilty person, I said: "There are always people who can abuse things. This one time, the fact that these people have been exposed to abuse, there is no reason to defame a prominent institution with their services. I replied.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0271par0294	Well, okay, that's what we said!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0272par0295	So, what more do you have to say?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0296	My expression here was that we should not spread the abomination of our families and children to all individuals, but not leave all those who have received it under suspicion. My explanation above, thinking of our families and children, was that once rape would not happen. It was turned into an intentional lie in the form of a lie.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0273par0297	Your minister steals, for once; baccarat reels, for once; abuse, for once; everything for once!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0298	This false statement, which had never come out of my mouth, was completely staged and fabricated, was tried to spread relentlessly and viciously and immorally. Anyone who looks straight and rationally at these immoral lies knows that no one who cares about human beings would ever say such a thing. There's no doubt in society that I will never utter such a sentence as a woman, especially as a mother, as a minister, as a elected member of the nation.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0274par0299	Then quit once!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0300	Your comments, which I have never said to the mind, which is a waste of reason, a lie, and knowingly made up in an immoral way, make it sound as if it had been said by me in a immoral way again, are so wrong, so unprovoked...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0275par0301	Once you resign, you'll be fine!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0302	...and he has been wronged, and the slanders and insults that have already been attributed to this lie have found no response in public.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0276par0303	200,000 signatures have been collected -- oh, shame -- so you can be dismissed. Public opinion is ineffective.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0304	Despite these accusations, despite the slanders, we have continued to work calmly to ensure that the victims of children and their families do not increase. From this point of view, I would like to say once again that we will continue our fight decisively, no matter where it comes from, no matter where it comes from, against the violence and abuse of children. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, as the Ministry, we have been and continue to be followers of these cases to the end of these cases, in order for the criminal and responsible to be punished most severely for the abuse of women and children. I urge all political parties, media organs, and public opinion, once again to be sensitive and sensitive when we make statements about our children's high benefits, because these events cause deep wounds in our society, just as they did in their terrorist attacks. We have to review the legal arrangements for the detection of these diseased souls, develop social consciousness, increase social sensitivity. That's why we keep working on it. When I first came into office as Minister of Family and Social Policy, I had two important instructions to our bureaucrats: I said immediately. One is that a detailed audit and guidance work has been launched, especially with the issues of violence, negligence, and abuse against women and children. The second is a review of all legislation related to our ministry. This month, we will carry out Family, Child, Women's Worker in the Turkish Justice System, with the participation of academics and NGOs as part of the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court. In this process, in which we need support, cooperation, and sensitivity in the search for solutions, accurate detection of our problems is vital. Creative criticisms, different solution proposals, and a comprehensive co-operation can only take place on such a minimum partnership. Bringing victims into society is a multidimensional issue, and it takes a lot of hard work. Dear lawmakers, as we rebuild our social policy, we have started a new era with our work for children, because as a society, our children are the greatest value we have. It is our duty to protect them from all negatives, to prepare them for the future in the best possible way. In this context, we've developed protective and preventive alternative policies for all our children. Co-ordinating strategy documents and national action plans in national child rights and child welfare services have been implemented during the time of our governments. We also continue to work on projects that focus on broad perspective on social problems such as early warning systems, school social services and the Family Social Support Programme.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0277par0310	Put your early warning systems on your teachers.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0311	In particular, we serve at 67 child support centers across the country with the ANKA Children's Support Programme in order to support and care for our children who need to be protected. Supporting families, maintaining family integrity, and raising a child as a healthy individual in a family environment are our primary goals. In 2002, 12,000 children were cared for by the family, with social and economic support services, and that number rose to 78,000 today. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we are conducting social policies that will not only strengthen our children, but also the woman simultaneously. It would be unfair not only for us to ignore the work done, but also for our children, our women, our country, and our nation. Everything can be criticized, criticism is an opportunity to get better. Criticism must be given to our children and our women, to their families and to their relatives, without being harmed. We have boldly discussed many issues that have been postponed so far for strengthening our women in education, health, law, economics, employment and politics, preventing discrimination against women, protecting and developing women's human rights. Turkey today is shown as a model in our region and many countries around the world, taking steps in social policies, education, health, employment. Under the amendment to Article 10 of the Constitution, positive discrimination has been guaranteed in favour of women, which shows that women and men have equal rights. Our ministry continues its work with the belief that violence against women is unacceptable and the principle of zero tolerance against violence. In the fight against violence against women in our country, significant improvements have been made in the number and service capacity of women's guesthouses, which are indispensable to protective and preventive services. Dear lawmakers, it is a matter of debate that 97 per cent of our ministry's budget is divided into social benefits. Social benefits, however, are the first, first, emergency and first step in implementing social policies, the first step in fighting poverty. In addition, when we look at the distribution of social benefits according to gender, women make up 61 percent of those who benefit from benefits, 75 percent of those who receive regular benefits, 50 percent of those who receive permanent benefits. These are what we call women in need, women in need of support and assistance. Some of these include women's rights, probationary education and health care, aid for women who have passed away, and maternity aid. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are the lifeblood of a family society, the center of values, culture, faith and social gains that make us who we are. The existence of a nation without a family is not possible for healthy generations to be raised by the light of the future. We don't prioritize family-based work, we don't dismiss work for women or children, but we speed up work for women and children, and we also work to strengthen the function of individuals in the family. We continue to produce service from our history, from our faith, from the values that make up the yeast of this land, through power and authority from our nation. We will continue with honor to build our future in the guidance of the mind, of science, of morality, of faith, of mercy, of justice, of wisdom, of conscience. In doing so, we respect the privacy of all the victims and feel the victim's victims in our hearts. We expect that from everyone. I would like to share with you the cries of mothers and fathers who were victims of this shameful incident. A victimized father calls out... please listen carefully, Father, and say: "No one understands us, no one in authority speaks, no one thinks of children and families? It's in court, but we die every day, we come back to life, we burn. You shoot people who come to help, write, draw, talk, have no idea where they're going. Does anyone care about us? Is anyone thinking about these kids' moods? Do the children of those who write and make material and speak have children? A victim father who says so. Another father asks: " How can you be so cruel! If you had a child of your own, would you go out and discuss it at a group meeting and expose it to all of Turkey? Is it so hard to be a victim in this country? The head of the main opposition party, however, tried to question my motherhood on this occasion. Yes, this interrogation is neither right nor right. I can't go home at night, three o'clock at night, four o'clock at night. Do you know where I'm going? To the children's homes, to the lovehouses. The nursing mothers who knocked and answered the door ask me, "Who are you?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0278par0318	Your mission is something you have to do, your duty. Quit if it's too hard, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0319	Yeah, I'm not going home until those kids are asleep.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0279par0321	What if they sleep at 3:00 a.m. in a day care centre at 4:00 a.m.?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0322	Recently, the head of the main opposition party, Saray, visited our Obstructed Rehab Center, and everything was so perfect that I asked Mr. President for a thank-you...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0280par0323	If you're going to a day care center at 3:00 a.m., you're lying.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0324	... We looked through the phone, looked, and found no flaw, because we provide the perfect service.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0281par0326	If there's no fault, why was the child abused?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0327	And I'd like to point out that from the day I came to power, I've been talking all over the place to build girls' dorms, and I'm saying it here.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0282par0328	God protects our children from their homes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0329	In order to get our girls to study for 12 years, we've laid out all our resources as the Ministry to build sorority girls. Yes, and now I'd like to address the HDP Group.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0283par0331	Don't yell at us.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0332	Of course, a minister can be recommended for various reasons. But I would like to point out that the last party in the matter of child abuse and violence against women is HDP. (EA/DG) The separatist terrorist organization has smuggled thousands of children into the mountains and made women part of a spiral of violence and terror. I've been traveling in terrorist cities for two months -- Hakkari, Şırnak, Mardin, Diyarbakır, Silopi, Cizre -- with Kurdish women, with mothers, with girls, with children. Where are you? I'm with them as a mother.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0284par0334	Did they tell you about Mama Taybet?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0285par0335	Miray, did you visit the baby's family?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0336	In front of Diyarbakır Mayor of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) who is troubled by their heartbreaking cries and tears...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0286par0337	If only you had gone to Karaman, you would have gone to Karaman. Go to Karaman.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0287par0338	We're waiting for Karaman, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0339	...when the mothers set up a tent, he tried to lift it up with his business machines. How can a woman be able to block her ears to the cries of mothers?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0288par0342	Mr. Secretary, one moment, sir, your time is up. I'll give you one more minute, complete your speech.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0266par0343	As our ministry, I draw the bottom with a strong line against all kinds of violence, negligence, abuse, we continue to fight zero tolerance, and we will continue, and we will never compromise. Once again, I declare that I will never compromise these things from the stand of our nation. I salute your high council, and thank you all.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0288par0346	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0289par0347	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0288par0348	Dear Sky... Yes, Mr. Sky, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0289par0350	Sir, in his speech, Mr. Secretary, our president has been found with an accusation. He said the leader of the main opposition party had no right and no right to speak out about him. That's why I want word on behalf of our group for bullying.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0288par0351	You demand word according to Article 69. Here you go, Mr. Sky. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is two minutes. IX. CONTINUES OF INTERVIEWS
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0290par0358	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, from every corner of our country, every day comes an extraordinary number of events that upset all of us in the face of child abuse. Every day, every minute, I wonder where it is today, what happened? Our heart is in our mouths. As opposition party MPs, we're scanning Turkey. What else is there that the Ministry can't see? We're trying to protect our children from a Minister of the Family by trying to confront the Ensar Foundation, which the Ministry saw but covered, which, in fact, he agreed to speak here. This is the painting, this is the painting in Turkey. (HIP rows, Bravo, applause; AK PARTI rows; Noises) In the table, there were the most severe abuses in the history of the Republic of Turkey, where the age of drug use fell to 10, 11.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0291par0359	That's CHP destruction, CHP!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0290par0360	In a country where children are forced to prostitution, the Minister of the Family says: "The leader of the main opposition party cannot question my right to be a mother, not his right, not his right. " It's not your place to sit in that position, it's not yours. You can't protect these kids, at least apologize from here, at least get up with your motherly feelings, apologize, quit, be honorable, be a mother, be human! What kind of minister are you?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0292par0362	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0291par0363	Oh, for God's sake, for God's sake!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0292par0364	Congressmans, please, I invite you to remain calm.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0293par0365	Does it look good to wave a finger at a lady?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0292par0366	This is the end of the negotiations, please, sir, please...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0294par0367	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0292par0368	Mr. Demirel, I'm listening, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0295par0369	Mr. President, it's not appropriate to wave a finger at a lady, and in the language of violence, we condemn the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0296par0370	The parallelists are involved in those children, aren't they, Mr. Secretary? We'll make you eat those words!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0292par0371	Congressmans, the deputy leader of the group has a request for a statement, and I'll say something, and if you'll excuse me, I'll listen to him. Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0297par0373	Mr. President, as the Minister spoke, HDP has made statements to our group regarding bringing in the motion for the gene when it should have been the last group to speak, saying, expressing our group. I want a say in this.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0292par0374	You want to talk about bullying according to Article 69, don't you, Mr. Demirel?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0297par0375	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0292par0376	Here you go, sir. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0298par0378	Mr. Demirel, have you ever defended the girls whom the PKK kidnapped and raped?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0292par0379	Congressmans, look, this is the end of the negotiations. In a moment, we'll be voting on whether or not the motion to ask for a geneorization should be taken into consideration. The more quiet we listen to the preachers, the easier we come to the conclusion. Please, sir. Here you go, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0299par0382	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, it's the HDP Group that brings up the questions. There's nothing we're afraid of. If you're not afraid, if you want the truth to come out, then you have to face everything here.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0300par0384	How scared we were, how scared we were
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0299par0386	If Mr. Secretary still stands up and defends certain things about the massacres that take place in a country where women and children are murdered today, he can't take refuge.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0301par0387	Who puts a gun in the hands of children?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0299par0388	Yes, 62 children were murdered in curfews.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0301par0389	Who puts a gun in the hands of children?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0299par0390	Yes, Mother Taybet's funeral was on the ground for a week, Mr. Secretary, she was 57 years old, and her children's funeral was on the ground for a week in front of her. You had no power to remove it from the earth, nor could you afford it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0301par0391	Who puts a gun in the hands of children, the gun?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0299par0392	Has Miray visited the baby's family, Mr. Secretary? Baby Miray was only three months old. We'd like to know if he visited his family.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0301par0393	Who puts a gun in the hands of children?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0299par0394	Peace was slaughtered at the top of the stairs, right in front of your children. Did he ask? Instead of defending the Ensar Foundation, try to defend the children and women. With these laws that you've made...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0302par0395	You're talking nonsense! Sing the martyr mothers!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0303par0396	Congressmans, please, sir...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0299par0397	You're bringing in the law that doesn't apply today and trying to make it clear to us. We know that very clearly. Women are slaughtered every day in this country, women are subjected to violence every day, children are slaughtered every day, child abuses in foster homes, women's homes, and children's homes are increasing day by day. You have to pay for all this.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0304par0399	You will answer!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0299par0400	Mr. Secretary, unless you answer for these, we as the HDP Group will answer for them, we will ask for them in the fields, we will ask for them in Parliament, we will ask for them in all areas of life together with women's organizations.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0304par0401	The Turkish nation and the Republic of Turkey will answer to you!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0299par0402	Again, in Bingöl, when they are being abused, families are looking for them as they walk, he says: "It's a good thing you made these statements and supported us. How many times have you been to Şırnak? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We'd like to ask, how many times have you been to Diyarbakır? We're always there, we're always there, and we'll always stand behind women and children. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0305par0407	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0306par0408	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0305par0409	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0306par0410	In his speech, Mr. Levent used the word "unfavorable Minister"
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0307par0411	Let him answer himself, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0306par0412	A minister and a minister who are here today trying to perform their ministry...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0308par0414	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one moment, sir... Mr. Bostanci, one moment, sir. Mr. Lawmakers, I can't hear Mr. Bostanci here, I can't hear him. Please say that again, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0306par0416	In his speech, Mr. Levent once made an inquiry regarding Mr. Secretary of State. Mr. Secretary, with the support of the EC PARTY Group, he's a man sitting there with the highest approval of Parliament. There's approval and legitimacy here. So this rude statement from Mr. Secretary and a lady against Mr. Levent is an obvious taunt. I demand word according to 69.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0308par0417	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0309par0418	There's no such thing as a request, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0310par0419	Mr. President, he said something to the Minister, didn't tell the party.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0311par0420	There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0312par0421	Just a moment, dear friends.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0311par0422	There's a minister here!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0312par0423	Now, Mr. Bostanci, this isn't about the Justice and Development Party Group, it's about the government. (CHP applause) If the Minister asks for a word from the teaser, of course I'll consider his request.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0311par0424	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0312par0425	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0313par0426	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0312par0427	I'll listen to you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0314par0428	Mr. President, Mr. Levent has also stated that we are trying to protect the criminal.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0315par0429	I've spoken to the Minister.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0316par0430	He's promised us now, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0314par0431	And that's a taunt for our group.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0315par0432	It's the Minister's business.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0317par0433	Mr. Bostanci, look, I listen carefully to all your demands of words, and I evaluate them all under the principles of freedom and justice. There is no bullying of the Justice and Development Party Group in the speech of Mr. Sky. But Mr. Secretary will make a request, so I understand, and I will promise the Minister because of that request, of course.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0314par0434	Mr. President, while we're making demands here, I assure you, we're showing a resemblance to your particularity. While making criticisms against the Minister, there is also an accusation against our group, a speech...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0315par0435	No, sir, I've dealt directly with the Minister.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0317par0436	Any accusation, Mr. Bostanci, if you please... Look, now, the accusation can't be a reason to make a promise. The 69th article is clear: The government, the commission, the political party group, lawmakers, can demand, respond to a different opinion from its opinion or the opinion it has imposed on the person of the person. • Our MPs have the right to make a statement in accordance with the definition in the Turkish Language Institution, the dictionary, if you want to speak of it, but our MPs have the right to ask for its place in accordance with the 60th Article of Civil Law. Of course, if you make such a request, I will meet your request.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0318par0438	Mr. President, you just promised us, but after Mr. Bostanci stepped in...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0319par0439	Mr. President, the claim that we're trying to protect the criminals is ultimately directed at our group.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0318par0440	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0319par0441	Mr. Secretary alone...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0318par0442	You said Mr. Baluken, then Mr. Bostanci gave us a say in a practical situation.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0320par0443	He was already talking.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0321par0444	No, no.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0322par0445	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0321par0446	Mr. Baluken, this is Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0323par0447	Okay? You called me Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0321par0448	No. Look, Mr. Baluken, before you, Mr. Bostanci had entered the system and demanded a word.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0323par0449	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0321par0450	He hacked into the system, demanded word. You stood up long after that promise request. I mean, Mr. Bostanci, from a long time ago, has a demand for words. You stood up, and then you demanded a word.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0323par0451	You made a promise to me, saying, "Mr. Baluken, you have not approved the demand to be bullied."
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0321par0452	I will, but look...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0324par0453	Mr. Baluken, you have repeatedly expressed your unappropriated request. Don't do this!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0325par0454	That's right.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0326par0455	What do you mean, what's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0327par0456	That's not for you to decide, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0328par0457	Mr. Group Vice Presidents, look, I...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0326par0458	You can't disparage the Speaker when he gives his word.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0329par0459	Don't! Don't!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0328par0460	One second, one second, sir. Mr. Group Vice Presidents, we served there together for five years. Mr. Group, I'm in a position to appreciate how sensitive the VP demands are. If you give me an unfair review of this, I will not accept it. Now, when a member of a group vice president isn't finished speaking on his feet, why do you keep talking to him? I can't possibly reconcile that with right. I'm making a statement to Mr. Bostanci under the Civil Code. Of course, after that, I'll meet your demands. I thought his speech was over, so I said Mr. Bauken, but it's not over, so I'm waiting for it to be over.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0330par0463	Okay.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0331par0464	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0328par0465	Mr. Bostanci, my explanation is clear. I'll consider the Minister's request. If you ask for a word according to Article 60, then I will be able to promise you your place. Mr. Baluken, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0332par0467	Mr. President, I meant to say something, but I gave up. There is a taunt against her, and let her speak for herself.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0328par0468	What's a tease, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0333par0469	Mr. Secretary used the word "iftira" about the words we said, and the fact that the public is being misinformed... Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir speaking. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I promise you for two minutes. Please use your right to answer in a way that does not challenge a taunt. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the word you said was that once it was found, there was no reason to defame a prominent institution with its services.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0334par0476	Loud and clear.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0333par0477	We didn't give any other explanations. That's exactly what you said, and that's exactly what I said, and then I said, "Is that a minister's priority and his first word?" And I'm still asking. After him, in my speech at the time, so I once said that it was okay to resign, once, to quit, and today I repeat the same thing.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0335par0478	What's that got to do with anything? You're tweezing and tweezing, and you're talking.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0333par0479	You're talking about making materials, making materials is one thing, fighting for other children to be victims is another. We're fighting so other kids don't get hurt. His gene is a form of democratic politics, not a form of political lynching. There's a business called the youth. That's why it's the way we ask the political power to account, the gene, and we have to use it properly, and that's what we're doing right now.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0336par0481	Mr. Kerestecioglu, are you also doing your human rights defense for 2,900 children who were abducted into the mountains?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0333par0482	But I see a very serious danger. At the moment, I also understand from the other speaker's words that wherever there is much talk of morality, there is much immorality. (Applause from HDP rows, AK PARTY rows) I think now, there is talk of homosexuals and a serious discrimination is being made against a group that exists in society. You are in power, and you have no right to discriminate against anyone. You can't throw this crime at the gays, not by speaking out of religion, not by remembering our martyrs at the entrance of conversation, if you can't cover it up.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0336par0483	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, are you also doing research on the girls and boys that PKK has kidnapped and taken to the mountain? Are you curious about the rights of martyr children?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0333par0484	Public opinion is infinitive, has collected 300,000 signatures. The public will answer for that. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0336par0486	Do you also offer anything about martyr children?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0337par0487	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir. Mr. Secretary, I believe you're asking about the bullying.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0338par0489	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0337par0490	Here you go, sir. I promise you two minutes from the stand.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0339par0492	We've seen the diameter of Mr. Levent in prayer.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0338par0494	Dear MPs, Mr. President; Mr. Levent, Vice President of the CHP Group, is a woman of the Supreme Assembly, and at the same time, I strongly condemn the way the government has used against a Minister of the Government, and I strongly condemn it.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0340par0496	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0341par0497	Violence, violence. He was violent with his tongue. And she's defending her rights. Is violence just a verb?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0338par0498	And as for questioning my motherhood, yes, no one has the right to question my motherhood, and again, I stand by my words. I also invite courtesy and respect.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0342par0499	The diameter, the diameter.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0338par0500	I'd also like to say that it's the people and the chest that will evaluate our diameter. When we go to the polls, people decide who's in the box, and we're here with that decision. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0342par0503	Did you get the answer?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0343par0504	The poor can't understand that, Mr. Secretary, the ignorant can't understand that.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0344par0505	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0345par0506	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0344par0507	Mr. Sky, I'll listen to you for a second. Mr. Bostanci has a request for a statement according to Article 60. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0346par0512	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, the matter of child molestation is a matter of no one's line, no means, no means, no escape, no words, no need to argue. No one makes an attempt to shade it in any way. Child molestation is an open crime - the attitude of all human, moral, ideology, worldview, religion, religion, whatever. The problem is that it's also a moral issue when you make it an instrument of political hostility, a political attack, a political criticism, a political narrative. That's also the moral issue, that's one. Secondly, it is simply not appropriate for a member of a group vice president to engage in this degree after giving a speech on the stand. I'm sure Mr. Levent is upset about the outcome because I know him well, we've been working together for years, he's a very elegant person. I'm sure he's upset about his vulgar promise, not his own grace. Another reason may be the weakness of mathematics. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0347par0518	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0348par0519	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0347par0520	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0348par0521	Sir, in his speech, Mr. Secretary has stated that what I said about him was unbecoming of the Parliamentary Court. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0347par0522	What sentence did he pick on, Mr. Gök?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0348par0523	In my speech from the council bench, he made a statement to me, expressing that the speech I had made was not appropriate for this Parliament.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0349par0524	What did he say, Mr. President? What's it based on?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0347par0525	Here you go, I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0348par0529	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're talking about an important matter here. Of course, it is the President's right to speak the harshest words about the opposition in this country, a right for ministers, but when the opposition party tasked with controlling power does even the smallest criticism, the ministers stand, the power stands.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0350par0531	You insulted me!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0348par0532	Now, I went back to the Minister and said to him, "The Minister without any help." What do you mean, dear friends? When you look in the dictionary, it is used in terms of non-satisfaction. So you're incompetent, Mr. Secretary. The meaning of the word "unsatisfactory" means "unsatisfactory."
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0351par0534	You're vulgar too! You're so full of shit!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0348par0535	Now, Mr. Secretary says here: let's pay for this in the chest.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0351par0536	Mr. Levent, you're completely out of order!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0348par0537	So you transferred theft, December 17th to December 25th corruption to the chest, where you tried to clean it up. Now, you can't get out of this by taking abuse, abuse, into the chest. You'll pay for this. (Applause from CHP rows, AK PARTY rows) Those children's responsibilities are on us.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0351par0538	The president of your party is the vice president of a rogue group.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0348par0539	You're not aware of the responsibility you've taken, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0352par0540	You're the poor one!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0348par0541	Please, come to your senses. All the kids, all the families are traumatized. The country is standing. And here you are, trying to talk like nothing happened. A lot's happened, a lot's happened. Our wounds are big. Our children's injuries are big, their traumas are big. Please see these.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0353par0542	A little louder, a little louder!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0348par0543	I'm not going to criticize you as the opposition party, but who am I going to criticize? Who do I criticize?
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0354par0544	You can't cover your absence by shouting.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0348par0545	I'm taking control. I exercise my right to control, my right to account. And you will answer to Us.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0354par0547	You can't cover your absence by shouting.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0355par0548	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0356par0549	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0354par0550	He's been a real piece of work.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0356par0551	Mr. President, for the record. We've all established the commission together in Parliament.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0357par0552	Barely!
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0358par0553	I'm sure -- anger, anger, political debate, let's put it all aside -- this commission, together, is going to do a study on human and moral basis. It's not the other way around. What we expected from Mr. Levent was, of course, an appropriate conversation, but it wasn't. I think there's two Mr. Levents. We want the other one.
tbmm-2016-04-04sit03spe0359par0554	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. It's in the transcripts. Talks on whether to bring up the motion on the motion on the motion on family and social policy Minister Sema Ramazanoglu. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes on whether or not the motion to be brought up. All those who have agreed to the motion for the motion to be brought up... those who have refused... the motion for the gene is not accepted. [[A standing ovation from the EC PARTY ranks, applause from the ranks of the Council of Ministers]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, during the ceremony yesterday in Balıkesir, the Balıkesir MP condemns the attack on Mr. Mehmet Alleg, and we offer to you the information that violence should never be involved in politics. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In accordance with the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (April 5th 2016) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Have a good evening.
