tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. However, before we go off-the-book, we expect a deep silence from our deputies to ensure that the character on the stand remains intact. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan, who wanted to mention the anniversary of the death of Sheikh Fethullah Hamidi. Here you go, Mr. Lion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0002par0012	Mr. President, I salute Mr. Court and the General Assembly. Sheikh Fethullah Hamidi, born in 1873, died on 24 April 1947, we remember her with grace in the year 69. In addition to being a great scholar, a righteous, a prophet, he has recorded in history especially with the following accounts: He has saved the Suryanians in the events of 1915, by pawning his own son, Sheikh Siracettin, and his nephew, Sheikh Siddik. He made peace with his son - the only child he had - and his nephew - to be a hostage in the village of Aynvert, the siege of Ithtihat and Terakki, and the Hamidiye Regiments, over the Suryani. It's history as well. Of course, in the same way, in times of Badiz, many Armenians were saved by Hrant Dink, who again, on 16 October 2005 in the newspaper New Asia, said, "God bless him for this model behavior of Badiztime." Of course, we're going to draw attention to the important issues here. The position of scholars at the point of representing the mission and Islam is that we need to imitate them by disregarding their own lives. Sheikh Fethullah, in particular, must be an example for those who are not of her own language, who are not of her own religion, and who are not of her own race, to leave her child and her nephew hostage so that they don't die, so that we can learn greater lessons from it. Today, if we, as lawmakers, as lawmakers, as lawmakers, as lawmakers, risk the lives of our own children to stop these deaths, I want us to question this, and why don't our religious men in Turkey take responsibility for this crime, like Sheikh Fethullah, who is acting in accordance with the Koran and the circumcision, like Sheikh Ahmet, and again, the Sheikh Alaattin, his son Sheikh Alaattin? In particular, we invite both the religious imams and the unofficial madrasa mullahs from here: please, let's put our hands under the table. There are verses, there are events. For example, I'm referring to one of the things that the Prophet (ASV) said about non-Muslims, and that Sheikh Ahmet Al Haznevi, Sheikh Fethollah, and Sheikh Alaattin, who, again, transferred from the Prophet who wanted to be killed, I would like to read here as well: I am an enemy to him. And whoever I am an enemy to - I will seize him and defeat him in the Hereafter. No one who kills another embezzler can smell heaven. Yet the smell of heaven can be felt from forty years away. Again, our call from this place: please, whether it's the clergy or the NGOs, the administrators, we must call for good in putting out this trial, this fire. (...) Go to peace together. We must fulfill the need of the verse. No, that's it, that's it... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's nothing to say. First we will prioritize the text of God, and then we will discuss problems. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Lion. The second non-responsibility statement belongs to İstanbul MP Ekrem Erdem (Turkish) who wants to talk about the use of Turkish. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0004par0027	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to share with you the topic of the keyboard that has been brought to the attention of our Parliament Speaker, Mr. Ismail Kahraman, recently about the giving of F keyboarded computers to lawmakers. In fact, there is no keyboard standard in the world, a variety of keyboards for various languages have been produced, developed, and F keyboards have been developed best suited for Turkish. For English, Q is the oldest keyboard Q keyboard when developing A keyboard for French, and the oldest keyboard is a keyboard that is very difficult to write even for the most primitive English. Why is it hard? This keyboard, developed in the 1850s, was then developed so that typewriters and typewriters would not be corrupted, especially if the letters were placed in difficult places, which were forced to write, and could not be changed because of the prevalence. But the F keyboard is a keyboard designed to be the Turkish standard in 1955, with some studies after the 1930s, after the typewriter was quite developed, the fastest, the most efficient, the healthiest how to write, and then the Q keyboard entered our lives with the computer. Dear lawmakers, for one thing, the F keyboard can't be compared to the Q keyboard, not with its speed alone, but with its other properties. Actually, we can't say that we use keyboards correctly, so the computer, if we can type ten fingers without looking, we're actually using them. Other than that, if we're using it with three or five fingers, if we're using it as chicken bait, that's not the right use. Look, after 1955, Turkish teams participate in international typing competitions. For the first time in 1967 in France, the Turkish team is the record champion. The French are objecting, the Turks have fixed because Q has developed a new keyboard outside the keyboard, and they have entered the competition with him, which is unacceptable. The Germans should congratulate the Turks, they did what we had to do. Therefore, this objection is not valid. The Turks are always champions in the contests that took place today every two years. To date, our team has won more than 80 medals for Turkey, a record of 30. It's not just speed, of course, but other beauty depending on speed. When you write ten fingers without looking, you also remove health problems from the screen that damage the eye. Another person, especially those who use the computer too much in their profession, has a lot of problems with orthopedic problems that are undisputed, depending on the computer. The biggest threat to the next generation is orthopedic problems. And to get rid of that, ten fingers, when you type without looking, because the body is comfortable in front of the computer, that problem just goes away. Other than that, the TSE also made new updates, adding other beauty to these beauties. One of these is, once, the new standard replaces English words with Turkish words. Thus, we show the proper respect for our language, and the comfort of using those words will come naturally. Another is, look, the euro has a symbol of the dollar, but it doesn't have a symbol of the TLS, and then you'll see this symbol on the computer that you're going to get. Another beauty is, look, especially the ones with hats that aren't on computers. It's so important that the new generation doesn't say "okay" anymore, it says "okay"; it doesn't say "paper," it says "paper"; it doesn't say "brother"; it doesn't say "brother" anymore. Because... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, our Turkish...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0005par0036	Mr. Erdem, I know that if we give you two hours, three hours, you'll talk, it won't be enough time.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0006par0037	Give Mr. Erdem a moment.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0007par0038	Give my folks a minute.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0008par0039	Wait a minute, look...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0007par0040	Let's not offend Mr. Mahmut.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0009par0041	What would happen if you gave me two minutes, Mayor, would you lose the capital?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0010par0042	All right, I'll give you one minute, one minute more, with the entire General Assembly's mutual decision.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0011par0043	That's what the House looks like. Because, dear friends, look, on the computer, on these new keyboards, hats are coming. Thus, one of the important rules of Turkish law is written and read as it is written. Thus, the rule will be fulfilled. Another, in fact, is a problem of language; a problem of language decay, alienation. We've already submitted a research proposal in 2007, and with the alliance, this Congress has agreed to that motion, and the result of that motion is if we use the F keyboard today. Now, another thing is that the Prime Minister's Office, published in 2013, and public institutions and organizations will use F keyboards from now on. In this respect, yes, it's the kind of thing that the Speaker would applaud, in order to set an example for Turkey, for it to have our language. I thank our esteemed Speaker for his sensitivity to Turkish... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to thank my esteemed deputies. Hopefully, we'll have better Turkish with an F keyboard. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0012par0050	Thank you, Your Grace.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0013par0051	Mr. President, why is he forcing an F keyboard, Speaker? Give Q to whoever wants it, give F to whoever wants it. I learned F, and then I learned Q by force, and I forgot it, and I'll go back to F. There is no theater like this; let him give it to whom he pleases, and let him give it to whom he pleases. I mean, why does he have to give you the F keyboard?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0012par0052	Mr. Tan, we'll pass it on to Mr. President, it could be that kind of study. Members of parliament, I would especially like to state that at this time extension, the decision has been made at either the meeting of our group's deputy presidents or the meeting of our parliamentary speakers. Please don't get in trouble, and we won't get in trouble. At this point of time, it would be good if we could design our conversations accordingly, which I will no longer give extensions from now on, and I especially urge you to know that.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0014par0054	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0012par0055	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0014par0056	Mr. President, it's not right for the Speaker to impose an order on the F keyboard with an administrative decision against the MPs.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0012par0057	Mr. Akçay, there's a study on him.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0014par0058	I mean, we want to express it specifically.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0012par0059	I'll pass that along, but I know it's a study. You're saying that our people's demands on this matter should be taken into account.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0014par0060	Sure.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0012par0061	We'll pass that along. The third non-responsored statement belongs to Uçakak MP Özkan Yılim, who wants to talk about the problems of the baneman and the terrorist incidents. Dear Yým, I know you'll be able to make a lot of sense in a short time. Thank you already. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0015par0068	Mr. President, thank you, but if it's not enough, I think my one-minute option appears to have come naturally. Dear President, my dear Court, my fellow MPs, and the citizens of the Republic of Turkey who are watching us on the screen, listening to us; I give you all my respect and love. First of all, before I speak, the father of our AKP Group Vice President İlknur Hanım has passed away, and again I offer my condolences, God bless him. In the meantime, we are re-criminalised by Mr. Ismail Kahraman, president of the Turkish Parliament, who has been sitting on our agenda for about two or three days, and is now well-placed by the Prime Minister's speeches. Today we have all witnessed the statements of TÜSİAD (TİAD) and the NGOs together, and I hope that this matter is closed and that secularism will not be discussed under the roof of the Republic of Turkey and within the borders of the Republic of Turkey. So thank you all again for heeding our warnings. My dear friends, the Republic of Turkey will remain secular and secular. I'd like to point out: I'm going to talk about the impacts of religious and vindictive management because of the pressure on the 14-year AKP administration. My dear friends, I will come to the question of the footman, and I would like to tell you in a moment: As a result of this fourteen - year - old power, the environment today has increased many times, my dear friends, the divorces. The number of people who went to prison has increased many times. Fraud, theft, multiples. The unemployment has also increased exponentially, coming to the top numbers of the last four years, dear friends, 11.4, which is even higher. Worst of all, my dear friends, she's 10 years old on drugs. There's a lot of other stuff like that. Why? Because of the way people live, the way they dress, the mustache, the book they read, the newspaper, the TV, etcetera, all kinds of pressure. So I'd like to point out that we're thinking of giving up these oppressive methods and working together for a more democratic, freer Turkey, because these warnings from the European Union often come. As for our current topic, my dear friends, it has come to light that a teacher at the Imam hatip High School of Uğur Province, Karahalllı Province, has been harassing seven girls in the 11th grade. I've been following the subject for about a month now, but since I didn't have the donors, without the data, I've saved my speaking day for today. Because as of yesterday, I got the depositions from seven students. I'd like to address Mr. Minister of National Education, seven female students... who have been subjected to the abuse of seven female students by a teacher... my dear friends here. The Butler County National Education Directorate immediately launched the necessary work, and right now investigators are working on it, and there is a temporary transfer of the teacher to another district. I'd like to go over this case -- and here are the testimony transcripts of seven victims of female students -- and I would like to ask that this be taken very, very carefully, so that the guilty may receive the appropriate punishment. Likewise, the principal of the school, the EDUCATION-BIR-SEN representative, and in a statement he made, he said, "There's nothing too much to overstate, not too many students, not too many students, not too many students... and so on and so forth. Look, I'm calling it a downer! It's clear who he's following, who he's talking to in his mouth. My fellow lawmakers, a second incident occurred yesterday in Karahalli. This is another school that happened in multi-purpose high school. There are two students here, in the same way, who are being harassed. And I'd like to make sure that this is handled as soon as possible. And I would like to say in particular that I do not mention any of the names of any of these students because they are very important, nor do I mention our teacher; I request that the necessary work on this be initiated immediately. I salute the General Assembly with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0016par0080	Thank you, Mr. Yim. Congressmans, first of all, let me say that today is April 27th, the anniversary of a black day in our history of democracy. We all know that it is not possible to approve of any attitude or behavior that has been revealed from time to time against the Constitution and all its laws, law, democracy, and, most importantly, the will of the nation. Searching for other solutions to Turkey's problems, against the rules of law, democracy and the will of the nation has always been the biggest failure and the greatest injustice to this country, and it has experienced enough pain in the past as it has harmed our country and our nation. I want to thank you all for the idea that any illegal enterprise in our country will never happen again, with a new longing for a democratic, liberal, inclusive, and embraced constitution, with no guardianship involved, with all sorts of illegal enterprises in the nation. I'll make a promise to the first 15 congressmen who enter the system in a row. Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Topal, Mr. Ozkan, Mr. Poyraz, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Güllüoğlu, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Aksu, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Akyıld, Mr. Koksal and Mr. Yıldırım. Mr. Flagtutan, please.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0017par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. In your speech, you have stated that you will face any attitude or behavior that is contrary to the Constitution. I assume you'll include the Speaker in this conversation. I'd like to talk to you about the black border crossing of Artvin Körkan Murat. Artvin is one of the two doors connecting Georgia to Georgia, Turkey to Georgia. The decision of the Council of Ministers to establish a customs office was decided in 2013. At the same time, the Council of Ministers ruled the opening of the black border border crossing in 2013. Although more than three years have passed, a nail has not been struck in any way -- an excuse for the dam in Georgia -- could be caused by diplomatic problems with the government of Georgia. The local people are waiting for this door, especially because of the obstruction at the Sarp Border Gate, to be opened immediately and to strengthen the friendship between the two countries -- the Muslim border crossing. In this regard, the relevant ministries, the State Department, the Ministry of Customs and Trade...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0018par0093	Mr. Topal has handed it over to Mr. Ilgezdi. Mr. Illgezdi, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0019par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2010, the application by Cem Foundation and Aleviler to the European Court of Human Rights ended yesterday. The European Court of Human Rights ruled that there was religious discrimination among Alevi in Turkey in the trial against Alevi rights. The decision of the European Court of Human Rights has stated that the European Convention on Human Rights has been violated by Articles 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which determines the right to freedom of religion and forbids discrimination. Due to the lack of legal status of the Alevis, they were not able to exercise the right to freedom of religion. The decision carries direct context in the legal plan for Ankara. After the verdict, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister if the decision will be carried out or if it will not be carried out. Will the Alevi's temple be recognized legally and legally, or will the citizens of Alevi still be ignored? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0020par0100	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0021par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Martin Erdmann, the German Ambassador to Can Dündar and Erdem Gül Gül Gül, had stated that Gul and Dündar had done journalism and had to be assessed as part of the freedom of expression. However, yesterday in Stuttgart, the prosecution launched an investigation into the journalist who was reporting on the weapons sent by Germany to Mexico and charged him with disclosing classified information and violating the law of journalism. Exposing the government's confidential information seems to be a crime all over the world. However, when it happens in our country, certain circles immediately scream for freedom of expression. So it's not about journalism, it's about interfering with our sovereignty. I declare that we will continue our fight against our enemies, including and outside, against our national sovereignty, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0020par0104	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0022par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the property and zoning problem of our Üskudar district, Yavuzturk neighborhood, has not been solved. We demand that this be resolved once and for all. Again, in the same way, the transportation of our province of Chile, Istanbul, and the physical conditions of the hospital... there are not enough specialists in the hospital, and we demand that this be resolved. Electrical administrations were privatised between Mardin and Diyarbakır. Privatisation of infrastructure meant to be given cheap, quality and continuous electricity, but in Şanliurfa, electricity is constantly cut, between eight and twelve hours a day, watering, water production, our people's products are drying, and it causes economic debris because the products are drying. In this sense, almost without realizing the political power, it serves terrorist organizations. We demand that the electricity of our cities, Şanlıurfa, Diyarbakır, Mardin, be issued immediately so that it does not serve terrorist organisations.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0023par0110	Mr. Boyraz...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0024par0112	Dear President, on April 27, 2007, Turkish politics was asked to intervene in 1971, just as it was done in 1960, as it was done in 1980. As in the past, we will never allow the people's will to be interfered with, as in the future, as in the AK PARTY. It is not in the democratic state of law that an institution of Turkish Prime Ministership should use a statement against the nation's governments on any matter. My fellow public defenders, the votes that are proud and upright for the sake of our nation's service have not been taken to the ground, thanks to the government of the EC. Before I put an end to my words, I would also like to say that this is a new constitution, a civil, a constitution that everyone and everyone will embrace to prevent the coups from ever making these sneaky plans again. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0025par0116	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0026par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. In Çanakkale, one of the provinces in which we owe our country's protection against the armies of invading imperialist countries is Giresun, whose blood, his independence, our republic, our existence. Although their territory was not occupied in the Giresun Liberation War, Major Hussein Avni (Alparslan) and Osman Aga joined the 42nd and 47th Volunteer Regiments, all of the soldiers who formed these regiments were martyred in Sakarya, Dumlupınar, Afyon, Poletlı, and Mangaltepe. In the name of the province, Giresun is the only province with martyrdom. We are martyrs in Çanakkale, in Sarıkamiş, in the Caucasus. Finally, in operations conducted in East and Southeast Anatolia, hundreds of our fellow citizens have been killed, and in the last 23 days, we have paraded three of our martyrs to their eternal journey. For all these similar reasons, we demand that Giresun be awarded the Istrillal Medal. I expect all of our fellow lawmakers to support my proposal in this regard. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0027par0122	Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0028par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the 1.253-capable integrated health campus, which was founded two years ago as Turkey's first city hospital in Mersin, is said to be operational during the election period, with the AKP's government advertising frequently in Mersin, will be operational in July. The state has rented this health camp for 25 years, and it is said that the state will pay 3 billion 522 million for this integrated health campus. The actual cost of the hospital is $600 million. In addition, under contract with the contractor, the state contractor has committed 70 per cent to the firm. In light of this information, I'd like to ask you: on what basis did the government commit to this hailing rate? Will the firm be paid extra if it's not loaded? Is the rent the government will pay correct? If it's true, then who let the government do so much damage, and why? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0029par0128	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0030par0130	In our country, of the 53,405 chiefs, 390 are women. We have two head of women in Niğde. Bor district serves the neighborhood as Cetin Mukhtar in Cumhuriyet neighbourhood. In the villages of Niğde, our only female headman is in the village of Tzardak, Farm County. I visited the gazebo village this weekend, met with our headman. Hatice Plak wants to reform the Meledez Creek that passes through the village and to build a treatment plant for waste that is tied to the stream and poured out. He also says that frequent power outages in the Tzardak village victimise the village and had to buy generators due to power outages. There are many blackouts in Niğde. In this context, there's trouble in the center, as in the villages. I'd like to get the authorities' attention on this. I also demand that the demands of our chief in the village of Tsardak be met and given the necessary support as a woman's chief.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0031par0133	Dear Man...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0032par0135	Thank you. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism and the Ministry of Labour and Social Security announced a five-point package of incentives towards the tourism sector. According to this package, three months of insurance and pensions will be paid by ISKUR, in nine months' work for workers who work in the housing facilities in Antalya and Mugla. As we all know, Balıkesir and Çanakkale are also an important tourist province. History serves tourism throughout the year with its tourism, cultural tourism, health tourism and marine tourism, spas, throats and Kaz Mountains. Therefore, we would like to make sure that the provinces of Çanakkale and Balıkesir are included, and that the businesses and workers who work here will benefit from the encouragement.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0033par0138	Mr. Aksu...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0034par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. In Middle Eastern geography, where global forces turn into battlefields, we also have many relatives. Some ill-intentioned local forces in these areas are attempting ethnic cleansing at every opportunity they find. The recent conflicts that have been seen in Turkey's city of Tuzhurmatatu and around it, as if it were a sectal quarrel, continue, while Turkmen houses are being raided and looted by hepmerge forces. Reports are coming that the Turks were forced to leave the area, that the opponents were killed. The Turks who live outside Turkey are a precious legacy to the state of the Republic of Turkey of Turkey of our thousands of years of ancient history. Our state and the government must uphold this legacy, protect the rights, lives, and possessions of our relatives, and not leave them alone. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0035par0143	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0036par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Shap disease is scorching Turkey, threatening Turkish animalism. Although one of Turkey's distinguished institutions, the Shap Institute, has been constantly vaccinated, it is a victim to our producers that the Ministry of Agriculture cannot control this disease. Many animal markets are closed because of the slap. Even the animal market in Edirne Havsa is closed three or four times a year, even though it's a landfill. Our manufacturers have to cut their animals off because of the shaft. A 1 -year-old milk cow is around 45,000 liras, and is cut and worth half the price. For example, our producer Sinan Yozgat from the village of Çalapverdi, Yozgat Köyük district, has gone to a total of 17 milk cows, which cost about 100,000 lira. There's a serious smack danger in the area. Our manufacturer has grown from tooth to nail, has made a lot of them, but thelum has taken them away from him.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0035par0148	Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0037par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. The European Court of Human Rights issued yesterday concluded that the European Convention on Human Rights (European Rights) was violated on religion and freedom of conscience because the State Alekis officially did not recognise and provide legal status, and Turkey made a decision condemning the court. This resolution, which is above and binding under the constitution and international agreements, has once again proven the rights of the Alevi society. I ask the Minister: Will you, as a government, grant legal status to the houses of the European Court of Human Rights? In your defense of the European Court of Human Rights on behalf of the state, you have argued that the mosques can't be considered a sanctuary. What did you do that based on? Do you still feel that way?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0038par0153	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0039par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Just now, my friends have stressed their speech as well. Of course, the European Court of Human Rights has made a very important and historic decision. It's very important to the freedom of religion, it's very important to the legal status, it's very important to public services for discrimination, and it's very important to the European Court of Human Rights that there is no possibility of appeal because the decision has been taken by the Grand Office of 17 judges, and that our country is directly binding in the legal plan, but the point that upsets us and hurts us is this: is the arguments of the lawyer who defends for the government. What does the lawyer say there: If we meet the rights of Alevi, other groups of believers will come with the same demand. I ask the government's authorities: Are you meeting these demands from your pocket? This state is the state of all of us. So... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...this hurtful defense has really upset us, and we demand that this be resolved as soon as possible. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0040par0160	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0041par0162	47 households in the village of Karahisar district of Dazkırı are condemned to live without electricity in this century. We have drowned in the ministry. Those who say, "We will bring your electricity before the election." Those who say, "We will not visit this village after the election." When will the power shortage of 47 households of this village be resolved? Again, my constituency, Afyonkarahisar Province, Tea County, wants to form a water union, and there are about 150,000 trees cut down in the forests of Tea. The stream of tea is used, but it is not permitted for the rulers in Tea to manage this water union. What's the motive? On what grounds is it not allowed to govern or manage the water company? And also, in order to create new quarryes, it is alleged that the trees will be cut down again because of the desire to create quarryes on the edge of the stream, and the forest will be destroyed in Tea. Are these claims true?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0040par0164	Finally, Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0042par0166	Thank you. After the Ankaragü-Amedspor game at the weekend, the attack by Ankara power executives and fans against Amedspor executives is a purely racist attack. I don't see this as such an act of exuberance between the two teams, it's a purely ideological approach. We also saw this when Amedspor said, "Let the children not die, let them come to the game." And when he asked for peace, we saw that he was punished. These racist and fascist approaches have previously been carried out in different provinces to Diyarbakırspor. When do you really think that instead of encouraging and prudish attitudes and attitudes like this, you're going to take a deterrent and preventive step towards this kind of approach that doesn't suit our country? And in the same way, I strongly condemn the understanding and mentality that created this polarization environment and which is being distilled from here.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0043par0169	Mr. Akçay, you've entered the system. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0044par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. In the city of Tuzhurmatu, Iraq, the attacks on Turkmen continue. Despite the ceasefire declared on April 24th, the angsts, including PKK-led elements, attack civilian Turkishmen with tanks, air and heavy weapons. What kind of situation is that? We are faced with a very important situation when we consider that Turkey occasionally trains and how the government has an intimate relationship with Barzani. Türkmen's houses are targeted in the neighborhoods of Mustafa Agha, Aksu and Imam Ahmet. The Turkmen have come down to the streets to protect themselves against the attacks. The people sought to protect their homes and businesses with weapons in their hands. The purpose of these attacks in the city is to start an ethnic war. These attacks are also a harbinger of major massacre attempts. The attacks on Tuzhurmatu will also be reflected in other Turkish cities. These attacks by PKK-backed pessimarchs are a move to remove Turkmen from the ancient city of Turkmen, Tuzhurmatu. I invite the government to be sensitive about this and to make a statement. Today (April 27th) was the 9th anniversary of that famous e-mutation, and with this e-mutation, a virtual victimization was created by a custody initiative, and the AKP's election campaign was built on it. Immediately after that, whatever was discussed in Dolmabahçe on May 4th is still unknown.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0045par0177	Mr. Akçay, I'll give you one more minute, please complete.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0044par0178	However, this May 4th Dolmabahçe meeting is directly related to the April 27th e-mutation. The parties of the meeting have stated that this meeting will go to the grave. This May 4th meeting is also a custody incident and an intervention. I invite you to be consistent with custody and intervention. The Nationalist Movement Party has this consistent and primitive stance. We consider the April 27th declaration a black spot in Turkish history. For the declaration of April 27, Mr. Erdogan made his statement and was admitted by Chief of Staff Yasar Buyukanit, but for some reason he was later awarded the State Medal of Honor. In this regard, the declaration of April 27 has reached the goal of the parties.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0045par0180	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0044par0181	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to thank you from here on the microphone.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0045par0182	Well, thank him. We have a principle decision.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0044par0184	I'd like to thank you, Mr. President, with the hope of a democracy where there are no e-signs, intervention, guardianship initiatives and coups.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0045par0185	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Ironel, I'll give you two minutes, one more minute.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0046par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we've been talking here many times, and we've been dealing with different things every day about these curfews and blockades. Again, the blockade and curfews are still under way in Tyre, which is close to five months. During a period when the people are still struggling to get home and to their workplaces, while the bodies are still in the ground, families have not yet taken their bodies from Sur County, despite their three months of talks with many officials. And during a time when the body of an elderly man who had just been missing yesterday was taken to a research hospital, unfortunately, the fascist, racist rhetoric reflected in the press again from Sur. Now, we'd like to ask the government and the government: Who runs Sur district? If the governor lets you, who's the one who's got that masked video on his face, who's the one who's talking about fascist rhetoric there? In Sur district, when people can't get their funerals, they can't go to their homes, but they can't get video clips from there, and they're using drones to identify with that clip, and they're talking about what should be done in that music with the radio noise, and the insults to the Armenians and Kurds, once again, with that racist, fascist concept, who put music into that clip and spread it all over the social media? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Who runs Diyarbakır Sur district?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0047par0193	Finish up, I'll give you an extra minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0046par0195	We're very curious, and we'd like to ask the government one more time and ask the General Assembly to brief us on this. Who runs Sur County? If the Governor says I'm in charge, then did the Governor let them in, who are they? He needs to explain. If he doesn't have any information, which one of them runs Erk Sur County, then the governor has no authority there. So we're very curious to know who's running Tyre right now. Once again, those who spread those racist images and phrases, and those who did it, must be explained immediately. For five months, we, as lawmakers, as delegations, the families, the people who live there, are being filmed in Sur, when no one can go in there. I mean, it's not a simple thing, it's not a simple thing, it's an immediate revelation of who this was carried out by. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to express the need to inform the public and the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0048par0199	Thank you. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0049par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Republican People's Party is against all coups, whether it's an e-demand or a tank. No distinction, no matter where it is in the world, Turkey has always been against the overturning of a civilian administration by illegal means in the history of the Republican People's Party. The Republican People's Party is one of the most damaged parties. Of course, we can't help but ask the question, how do we assess such civil coups that are contrary to the Constitution? What will be the nature of the conduct of some authorities whose duties are to enforce and protect the Constitution and the law? The Republican People's Party does not accept military coup, but we do not accept civil coup. There's nothing obvious about the civilian impact, since it wasn't done with the tank. However, we are also aware that the violation of the Constitution itself led to a civil coup by the executives themselves in the first place. In particular, because of the previous statement of the Speaker, I think the prosecutors of the republic might consider launching an investigation into the Constitution over this heavy coup. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0050par0206	Thank you. Mr. Speaker made his point with the press release yesterday. Mr. Cakir, please.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0051par0210	Thank you, Mr. President. The history of democracy in the world has a long, exhausting, long-term journey. It's the same with our history. The transition from absolute to legitimacy, legitimacy to republic, from one-party life to multiple-party life is a very tiring and long-term process. Ironically, I remember that the Turkish History of Democracy, which also represented the title of the book of Dear Professor Kemal Karpat, was collected in the 60s as a textbook in the universities, and it was created as a picture of how Turkish democracy actually went through the course. Nine years ago today's April 27th e-mutation was a black mark on our history, the history of Turkish democracy. May 27th, March 12th, September 12th and February 28th coups, which we could call postmodern coups, and this time in the middle of the night of April 27th, it appeared here as an e-magnition with an explanation that I don't need to give details. It's come out as a very bad painting, and, in fact, it's produced a great amount of axillamel in our country, and it's had significant effects. It's not just what's written here, it's not what's in this manuscript, but more importantly, the next day, with the will, with the explanation, with the government's will, the painting that's made, it's much more important and valuable. And that's what happened in our history as a white page, as a sign of honor, as if the others were pages passed as a black spot.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0052par0214	Complete, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0051par0215	Of course, another important thing -- we need to talk about this very long -- but I'm sure we're going to talk about this today, not here, but more today and in the days that follow -- is the attitude of political party representatives after that, our intellectuals, our intellectuals, the integration. I'd like to give you a few examples because of the tightness of my time: For example, CHP Party Speaker Mustafa Özyürek (Securist Mustafa Özyürek)'s statement: Of course, this is a chief of staff, the government must meet its requirements. The essence of this manuscript is that the Turkish Armed Forces oppose AKP's candidate for President. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0052par0218	Finish it, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0051par0219	Okay. It's still called, what's the next step? The next step becomes a tank... and if you force me to have power, the one who has power will force you. The painting is very clear, undoubtedly there were intellectuals, writers, columnists, but the attitude is very clear. He says, and we believe that there will be no more April 27s in our country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0053par0224	Thank you. Members of parliament, I would especially like to renegotiate a few decisions made by the members of the group, as well as the members of parliament, at both meetings headed by our Parliamentary presidency, so that you don't have to be in a difficult situation and we don't have to have trouble here. At the meeting Thursday (March 31st 2016), Mr. Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Deputy President of the EC PARTY Group; Mr. Levent Gök, Deputy Chairman of the Republican People's Party; Mr. Idris Baluken, Deputy Chairman of Peoples' Democratic Party; Mr. Erkan Akçay, Deputy Leader of the National Movement Party... I will only express a few decisions made at that meeting. In particular, no additional time will be given to the speakers except for the first and last-day talks of the budget and the talks of the presidents. It's a point we all agree on. That's why the preachers shouldn't push us. Second: The speakers will be invited by the deputy president to approach the issue in case they leave the subject in which the Internal Charter 66 is the chief, and the rest of which requires this application. Our request from all speakers may be, of course, from time to time, from time to time, that it is our duty to express its opinion on the stand, and it is our duty to respect it. But in doing so, the principle of commitment to the agenda is one of the rules of the Civil Code -- the 49th Amendment -- and there's this in the text of understanding. Again, the speakers who take the word in favor and take the word against it or against it will be warned by the deputy president. I'm just saying, for the sake of maximum sensitivity. Again, the decisions made at the meeting of the vice presidents on April 7, 2016 are similar. In addition, there will be a promise of 2+1 minutes and a minute each after the agenda -- particularly regarding our group's representatives. This is also a meeting of our deputies, Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Ahmet Aydın, Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, Pervin Buldan, as chairman of our Parliament. Again, in accordance with the decision taken at that meeting, I hope that we will soon be able to review all of these decisions together with both our parliamentary deputies and our group presidents, and I hope that we will all be able to review them together again soon, and I think that we will be able to make a healthy series of decisions by considering both the democratic opposition and in order to ensure the efficiency of the Assembly. I'm sure you'll show maximum sensitivity. And I'd like to thank you very much for your attention.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0054par0235	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0053par0236	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0054par0237	Sir, I find it appropriate not to create any argument, just to make a statement for the record. After the 27 April e-mutation, the government gave the Chief of Staff the Supreme Service Medal to the chief of staff of the time, which gave the e-mutation by the Council of Ministers' decision, and assigned an armored car under it. I'd like to put that on the record. Thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Let's move on to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0055par0246	Members of parliament, Mr. Lale Karbük, MP of Bursa, has reached our presidency on 26/4/2016 concerning his resignation from the Plan and Budget Commission. It has been presented to your knowledge. Again, there are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I will have the motions read separately. In the second place, the parliamentary research motion that I shall have read is more than 500 words, so a summary of the motion will be read, but the full text of the motion will be included in the Tutor Magazine. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Because of the political crisis with the Russian government, trade relations between the two countries have come to a standstill, which has affected our most narcissist producers. We propose the opening of Parliamental inquiry under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution on how to evaluate the production of a half-billion-dollar narcissist that cannot be exported to Russia, how to support our agricultural producers, and what measures should be taken for our 100 thousands of citizens who support the narcissistic sector. [[Adana]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 5) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] 6) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] 10) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Isparta]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Samsun]] [[Ankara]] Due to the political crisis between Turkey and Russia, some commercial sanctions are being imposed on our country by the Russian government. As a result of the halt of agricultural exports to Russia, our agricultural producers' goods remain at customs gates or warehouses. The embargo on our country has brought the narcissist producer, who was not supported enough by the AKP's rulings and is in the middle of the harvest period, to a bankruptcy. The AKP government has taken some precautions on this issue. From 10 November to 30 November, exports were reported to be 75 per cent to the tomato, 60 per cent to the tangerine, 50 per cent to the orange and grapefruit. But these measures are not enough for our farmer to relax. Russia is the largest market of the narcissist produced on our country's territory because of the European Union's imports of citrus from other member countries and their lack of demand for Turkish products. As soon as possible, the international platform needs public opinion and new markets to be searched. The government has to support the goods produced by our farmer in the form of a $100 cash payment for a ton. In addition, the debts of our farmer who has not been sold or has remained in his warehouse due to the political crisis must be postponed and structured. We believe that it is vital for the Turkish farmer to conduct parliamentary research to determine the measures that must be taken to prevent and even prevent the failure of our narcissist producer from being a victim because of the crisis and even to increase his competitiveness. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "Despite applications by university administrations and security units at universities in Turkey to seek out the 98th of our Constitution, the 104th and 10th Articles of the National Assembly of Turkey, as a result of the decades of intensive PKK terror organization activities in universities, the failure to prevent PKK propaganda at universities, and pressure on students in universities, despite the application of university administrations and security units that are threatened by the threat of teaching rights and safety of many students, as a result of their failure to take necessary measures, we submit to parliament to investigate the measures that should be taken by the members of the PKK terrorist organization." 1) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Ankara]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 5) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Scholarship]] [[Erzurum]] 8) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Mersin]] [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] 19) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Sakarya]] The construction of the PKK terror organization, which has existed at universities in Turkey for many years, appears to have gained speed, especially with the period initiated by the 60th Republic of Turkey, and called the process of resolution. The PKK, along with the solution process, has just begun construction in many universities, and an example of this took place at the University of Dumlupınar in Kütahya. On 8 November 2010, after the PKK group within the school completed its propaganda and organization activities, it launched a direct attack on nationalist, nationalist, patriot students. The day after the incident, at the university, where no measures were taken, the supporters of the terrorist organization attacked the students they saw in front of their activities. The fight on the German campus of Dumlupınar University has also taken place outside the school, and bureau management student Hasan Simsek has also been targeted by these attacks, and Mehmet Tuğrul, a terrorist organization member of the PKK, stabbed Hasan Simsek, who was in the same class. The 19-year-old college boy Hasan Simsek lost his life's war in the hospital where he was struck by a blow to the heart. In addition, the terrorist organisation PKK's university structures focused on body demonstrations, actions and propaganda efforts in universities at dates of importance to the organisation. Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) groups gathered at Çukurova University on 23/12/2014 to protest the Uludere events, performed protests in favor of the PKK, entered the cafeterias, threatened students, lynched a student, lynched classes, tried to burn the library. In spite of pressure on students due to the construction of an illegal PKK terrorist organization at Aegean University, the ongoing terrorist activities at school and the failure to block PKK propaganda at the university, the university administration of many students who have applied to the rights of teaching and their lives are under threat, the university administration failed to take the necessary measures, as a result of the loss of the university administration in 20/02/2015, the Literary Faculty of Literature student who was stabbed by PKK terrorists at the University of Ege was killed by the PKK. An event held Friday (November 27, 2015) at Boğaziçi University, one of Turkey's finest universities, marked a series of celebrations leading to the founding anniversary of the illegal terrorist organisation PKK. These celebrations, held on the university campus by the PKK terror organization's so-called anthems and cloths, have not been stopped, and have been tolerated. During what is called the solution process, universities have been opened to the PKK at the end and have been voiced from the political and university branch of which the PKK cannot use weapons and are included in the agenda. The bonds between security forces and school administrations have not been established, nor have non-students been blocked from entering campus areas, school buildings. Students who have not taken the necessary measures in the dorms, who have lowered the Turkish flag, who have been stabbed for wearing a national team uniform have become the subject of the news. Student pardons kept the PKK alive all the time, and disciplinary regulations were insufficient. Because of all this, universities have become the primary home of terrorist formations and a source of speed for terrorist organization. Many events in universities have been tried to hide the public agenda of PKK construction at universities, especially in writing and visual media, as opposed to fighting students. In recent years, recent events have not been the conflict of opposing students, but the self-confidence of the solution process is that the bloody terrorist organisation of the PKK, together with its own confidence, is creating a propaganda area for universities, which is how it is able to recruit people in the mountain. This stinking structure that breeds in universities in the winter, in universities, in summer, in the mountains, continues without slowing down its blood-fed activities. For reasons revealed above, a parliamentary investigation is required to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating serious problems leading to the martyrdom of students as a result of years of intensive PKK construction at universities in Turkey. To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We respectfully request and demand the establishment of the Parliament's research commission under Articles 104 to 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Constitution, in order to determine the immediate measures, to determine the full, equal and effective participation of our disabled citizens and all physical arrangements that will enable them to benefit from services equally from other individuals. 1) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] 3) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Samsun]] [[Inconceived]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Osmaniye]] 10) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Sakarya]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Erzurum]] [[Scholarship]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] By July 7, 2012, all physical arrangements for public institutions and local governments and disabled citizens to benefit fully, equally and effectively from social life and services are under the interim and temporary Articles of the Act of Absorbeds No. 5378 adopted during the 59th Government. Law 5378's 2005 talks with disabled citizens have been voiced the importance given by the current government and have been promised by law to get them out of the house and into social life and working life. These promises and promises to our disabled citizens are still available in the TBM reports. As many as ten years have passed and where we come from, the full, equal and efficient participation of disabled citizens and the necessary physical arrangements to ensure that they benefit from services equally from other individuals have not been fulfilled. Our disabled citizens, who look forward to their improvements and the promises given in 2005, are practically confined to their homes, suffering the frustration of failing to fulfill their promises made by the power. We also see that the government pursues this important and vital issue insincerely and insensitively from what has been done so far. The Prime Minister's Office, which bears the signature of Prime Minister 2006/18, has been published, but the results have not been followed. Again, despite the Prime Minister's directive dated 12/08/08/08 and the article dated 12/12/2011 that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy sent to 81 province governorship, we regret to inform you that both public institutions and organisations and local governments have not taken the necessary steps in this area. Although Law number 5378 rules what needs to be done for our disabled, the power to be a follower of those who have not been implemented so far, instead, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly, in June 2012, with a motion issued during the talks of Law 6353, sentenced our disabled citizens of their homes for another three years, under the law, with the use of two years and three years. On the other hand, there are still 22.551 disabled staffs in the public, and our disabled citizens are not employed. Again, our disabled citizens continue to have problems in health care or other areas. In this regard, the TBM is in great position to determine the reasons for the many years of victims of disabled citizens and the solutions they need to be implemented accordingly. The establishment of a parliamentary research commission in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Council shall contribute greatly to resolving problems in this area. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, according to the agenda, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 27/4/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 22 April 2016, Diyarbakır MP Deputy Chair İdris Bauken (number 1820) suggested that the parliamentary research motion, issued to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, be taken ahead of other motions to submit to the information of the General Assembly, "in order to be placed as a tool in the ruling relations of Ergenekon before and after the trial and to investigate the victims during the Ergenekon trial," was proposed in order to be read in the same session Wednesday (27/4/2016). The first word in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal belongs to Adana MP Coral Danış Beştaş. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0056par0427	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We'd like to briefly discuss a matter that happened three days ago and we've learned today before we move to our parliamentary research motion on the Ergenekon case. In fact, while we're having these discussions here, life is very heavy in different parts of Turkey, and the reflection of the debates here can sometimes be death, sometimes knife attacks, sometimes murders. Two workers, Ufuk Çelik and Eren Sönmez -- one from Şırnak, one of the two citizens from Siirt -- were traveling at night -- speaking Kurdish with his mother on the phone, and one who passed by there at the time can't speak in a language other than Turkish, this is Turkey. I speak the language I want, which is my native language, which says you can't interfere, and they're being attacked with a knife. They are both now in intensive care at Ufuk Steel and Eren Sönmez - the footman, and they are both still in critical danger because they spoke on the phone in Kurdish. I've interviewed the Chief of Police about the Chief of Medicine to see if they've been arrested or arrested, and unfortunately, we've learned that both perpetrators have been released today through forensic control. So, in this business, frankly, the attitude of the judiciary, the attitude of the arm, and the attitude of politics, is to reward such racist, fascist approaches. None of us should let this go. No one should be subjected to a fatal injury due to its native language, and right now, according to the knowledge of the Ufuk Çelik and Eren Sönmez. We hope they get healthy as soon as possible. Dear friends, the Ergenekon case has been one of the major turns in Turkey's history. In fact, he has made it very clear to us once again how political custody of the judiciary has been met by its directives, and how quickly the decision to be exonerated in the event of the reverse of these directives has been made. The Prime Minister of the period, the current President Ergenekon's talks on the Ergenekon case and other cases remain in our memory, as is today. He was the prosecutor of this case, yes, he gave serious talks to open this case, opening the Ergenekon case in order to punish the alleged co-operation they had with the congregation at the time, the coupters, the coup attempt against power. The Ergenekon case was launched on 12 June 2007 in the district of Ümraniye, in Çakmak neighborhood of İstanbul, with 27 TNT plates of grenades, allegedly. But prior to the Supreme Court's decision, we once again wanted to reveal to the public how important this problem was, and to bring up the political background of these cases and other cases, how the deals, the power fight and the division of power were reflected in these cases and how the Turkish Grand National Assembly had to do a thorough investigation on this issue. Indeed, we will eliminate the deep state and custody. They had claims, but those who claimed that they had the duty of laundering, are currently rapidly carrying out this laundering activity. Those arrested at the time are now outside, but those who arrested them were put in prison. According to the wind, the way the wind blows, the trials and the identities of the prisoners can be changed in Turkey. I'm afraid that whatever politics commands, the justice is aligned immediately by its orders. Now, this Ergenekon decision, the decision of Turkey, the Supreme Court, is surely not to say that it is not a wise decision, if I had the time to enter into it, but the decision of the Judiciary in terms of the procedure is absolutely correct. What's his motive? So from a legal point of view, he says: "The search of lawyers' offices, illegal listening, restricting the right to defense, not getting digital signatures at the site of the search, not being given copies, reunification of the cases, extensions of the trials." But aren't the grounds for the Supreme Court's breaches being implemented in thousands of cases in Turkey right now? Applying. In many cases, irregular wiretaps, calls again, restrictions on lawyers' rights of defense, restrictions on the right to defence, rapid trials, co-existence of cases. This legal decision in the Ergenekon case must be carried out in all cases, at least in a manner of speaking. But of course there was a power struggle in the Ergenekon case. So the war on power was used by judgment and law. That's the point. We said that when the Ergenekon cases were filed. It's got a few dimensions. One dimension, of course, victims, a great deal of victims have been experienced, and many people have been placed in those cases as bags, without looking at the quality, the nature of the allegations, without criminal-criminals, and then even greater sacrifices were created as they were being removed. That's true, and with the Supreme Court's decision right now, these witch-hunting operations may have been stopped at some point, but these victims must never lose sight of the basis of the case. What's that? For one thing, who here, who can say that right now there is no deep state in Turkey? Kim may argue that in the 1990s, countererilla activities and the fact that tens of thousands of people went to unsolved murders were free of direct links to the deep state, Ergenekon and so on. For one thing, society here has the right to learn these things, despite all the illegalities, other than that political reckoning. Indeed, this expectation, the removal of serious victims in cases, is positive, but the public's expectation of law and justice has been used in political disputes, and it's terrible for Turkey's society. The facts haven't been revealed in these cases. No arguments were used and were not allowed to be used in the trial that would allow us to face the past. What was it? In fact, the case files of those tried in the Ergenekon case and other cases have not been filed against humanity in the 90s. I, by name, don't want to name some of the defendants who were tried in that case -- because of their rights or I know them all very well -- I know they're responsible for dozens of murders. The murders committed by those who were in the military positions at the time in Turkey's southeastern Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern Turkey. Actually, that was the point. The ruling party tried to prevent and prevent the actions against it. It wasn't really their crimes, it wasn't their crimes being revealed. I'll just give you the name Levent Ersöz. It's because it's known that Serdar met and Abubekir Deniz was lost. He was commander of the Regiment. He was still unknown after two people were kidnapped. But he hasn't been asked a single question. During that period, when you were in office, where did these things go, how did they disappear? Her responsibility was not even discussed. I can give you thousands of instances of death, a sample of murder, an unknown example. So what we're trying to say is that Ergenekon was a political wind, the government wanted to turn the cases to its own advantage. Ergenekon has now evolved with Ergenekon to another way of sharing power, but when it comes to Kurds, when it comes to Kurdish people, when it comes to crimes against Kurds, when his power and opposition are associated with other Ergenekon and so on, unfortunately, they meet in the same decision; Ergenekon cases have once again revealed that. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0057par0440	The first word against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is from Bartın MP Yilmaz Bronzeç. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0058par0443	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the HDP group proposal, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly. With the group proposal, HDP has been asked to set up a research commission to expose all legal and political dimensions of Ergenekon's case, and it is requested to be discussed on the agenda today as a group proposal. The Ergenekon case, as you all know, is broken by the Supreme Court. Under the decision to break it, the case will be sent to the local court and the local court will make a decision on the Supreme Court's decision. There are two possibilities, either he will comply with the Supreme Court's decision or he will disobey the Supreme Court's ruling and resist his former decision. Of course, it's not legally possible for us to say at this stage, what kind of decision the local court is going to make. Of course, right now, the Ergenekon case, when we look at it from this angle, is a case that's in progress. We all know that the 138th article of our Constitution cannot be questioned or held at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in connection with a pending case. However, since it is an undeclared case, this proposal should not be taken into consideration under the Constitution of 138, but we are already discussing whether or not it should be taken into consideration, and there is no legal harm there. In 2007, of course, after the Supreme Court's decision on this case, a lot of opinions were made, and there were those who expressed their views in this parliament and in the General Assembly. The Ergenekon trial, which began in 2007 with the capture of grenades in a slum in Umraniye, took nine years. The Supreme Court of Appeals has been asked to review the case. The Department of Corrections violated the local court's decision on the basis and the procedure. Now, when we look at the reasons for the disruption...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0059par0448	Can we ask you something?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0060par0449	You can't, Mr. Ozcan, you have to listen.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0059par0450	I wonder who the prosecutor was at the time.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0061par0451	He can always ask, President!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0059par0452	I'm just asking about the prosecutor, what happened? I'm talking about the D.A. of the case.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0453	There are violations of the principle of fair trial; there are violations of the law in gathering evidence; there are violations in the hearing of witnesses; there are violations in the study of digital data; there are reasons why there is not sufficient conviction in the adoption of the terrorist organization; there are no actual and legal connections; there are reasons to break up the case of the combined State Attack; there are reasons why the former Chief Staff should be tried in the Supreme Court; and there are other reasons to break it down in the local court. Now, valued lawmakers, let's first say that our country has faced various coup attempts after entering the multi-party system. The 1960 coup, 1971, 1980 coup, 28 February postmodern coup, 27 April declaration today is April 27th, full anniversary -- and many coup attempts took place in our country.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0059par0455	So, Ergenekon was a coup attempt?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0456	There is a fact that we all agree that Turkey is a country where military coups and military custody are discussed until very recently. After the EC PARTY was established and came to power, coup attempts were always discussed; the declarations, party closure cases were always on our country's agenda. Everyone has expressed different views on investigations and prosecutions, which were launched by İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office in 2007 and called the Ergenekon case. In this case, 23 separate indictments were combined and around 270 defendants were tried. For the first time, the people who attempted the coup were answering in front of the court, including public support for these cases. In fact, there's been a variety of requests for involvement in the case. Mr. Sezgin Tanrıkulu, who is currently a member of the Republican People's Party, is your Vice President and has requested an intervention in this case. Again, the current member of the Republican People's Party has taken part in this case as the wife of Mr. Selina Doğan.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0063par0458	Yilmaz, how many defendants are there?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0459	Again, the Republican People's Party's candidate, Mr. Ali Balzý, has requested an intervention in this case.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0064par0460	Did you look at him for what reason he was found?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0461	Several people and NGOs, such as Alevi Bektashi Associations, the Association of Modern Lawyers, also filed an intervention in this case.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0064par0462	On what grounds was he found? Was it found on the İlker Basbug? What was it about?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0463	The length of the trial, the co-existence between unrelated events, and the fact that the incidents that violated the principle of a fair trial during the trial have sparked the impression that this case, which initially has public support, has been diluted and has been diverted from its purpose. In the case file...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0064par0464	What about the prosecutor?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0065par0465	Where did the prosecutor go? I'm the prosecutor of the case. Where did he go?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0466	I'll be there. Listen to me. Be patient.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0064par0467	Come over there, we're curious.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0468	There are crimes and criminals in the case file.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0066par0469	You're not answering the question.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0470	However, the violations of the law at the time of the trial have eclipsed these crimes and the criminals, and those who make the trial have begun to act in a different way, leaving the coupgers to be judged.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0067par0471	Okay, that's what we said, you defended it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0472	As the trial continues, the long time of the defendants' imprisonment has been raised. Look, there are some of those victims sitting across from us, Mr. Balbay is listening. When their length of detention came up, it was also the AK PARTI power that solved it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0068par0473	They slept with you, thanks to you!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0474	When we presented that offer here, we again faced the opposition's no-no campaign.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0069par0475	I'm the prosecutor of the case.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0476	It is the ruling of the EC PARTY that grants individual application to the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0070par0477	You're the ones who filled those dungeons.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0478	But the opposition went out and campaigned for a change in the constitution so that it would not be granted individual application.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0071par0479	Brother, don't tell me in vain! You've been silent here for three years, four years, killing people. Six or seven people died there. The shadow of Turkan Saylan is upon you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0480	The Constitutional amendment to the Supreme Court of the Chief of Staff has again ruled by the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0071par0481	You took those sick people out of their homes, clapped their backs.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0482	Look, the HSYK has never raised or evaluated the complaints regarding the members of the judiciary who made this trial.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0072par0483	People lost their lives, their children. People lost their children, you watched them cruelly, cruelly!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0484	We brought the proposal here with my signature that changed the structure of that HSYK -- when we brought the proposal, you broke the apocalypse, the apocalypse; the Republican People's Party object the most.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0073par0486	Why don't you come over to the D.A.'s office?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0072par0487	Come to the prosecutor, the prosecutor.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0488	And if we hadn't changed the structure of the Supreme Council of Judges, today you would have seen judges waiting for instructions for approval, let alone disrupting the Ergenekon case. That's the change in HSYK structure...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0072par0489	You sent a vehicle to Zechariah Oz.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0062par0490	Look, actually, you need to apologize. So you have to say, why did we stand up to them?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0074par0491	You brought him in for December 17th and 25th.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0075par0492	Why don't you come over to the D.A.'s office?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0074par0493	We've given up judgment, we're asking your conscience, your conscience!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0076par0494	Look, there's a bill on the removal of special authority courts...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0074par0495	Have a fucking conscience, bro!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0077par0496	Make your mark, your position! What judgment do you stand for?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0078par0497	Congressmans, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0079par0498	Mr. President, the preacher is turning us on.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0080par0499	Hundreds of people were arrested, dozens dead.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0081par0500	...when the Turkish Grand National Assembly was brought to its agenda, you were the one who opposed it again, passed by the AK PARTY's votes.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0079par0501	What have we against if you love God?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0082par0502	Speak with your conscience, with your conscience.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0083par0503	Talk to your conscience. Leave it, you don't get to judge.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0084par0504	Look, it's about the wiretap, the evidence...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0083par0505	What evidence?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0084par0506	...as arrangements were made here, we held talks of that law here until 4:30 a.m.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0083par0507	At 4.30 a.m., you arrested Turkan Saylan, and took the sick woman from his house at 4.30 a.m.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0084par0508	The law was adopted only by the votes of the AK PARTY MPs.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0085par0509	Come to this prosecutor.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0084par0510	Now, what you're saying, Mr. President, is that the Prime Minister of that period was the prosecutor of this case.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0085par0511	He told me.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0086par0512	We don't, he does. He said so himself.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0084par0513	Well, you said you were his lawyer.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0085par0514	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0087par0515	Yeah, we're his lawyers.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0088par0516	Yeah, we're still lawyers. You're the prosecutor. Didn't you say?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0089par0517	And look, Mr. President, do you know what Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Prime Minister of that period, said? When Mr. Ilker Basbug is arrested Mr. İlker Basbug, it is a serious mistake to call him a member of the terrorist organization, which cannot be forgiven. Even if they see themselves in good condition as they are now, history will not forgive them. The Turkish Armed Forces are not a terrorist organization. Dear MPs, prosecutors who launched the Ergenekon investigation and December 17th-25th investigation are the same prosecutors.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0090par0520	It's just that you've had a falling out.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0089par0521	As Ergenekon conducts his investigation, we're looking at what you're saying about these prosecutors, and when they launch the December 17-25 investigation, these prosecutors are experienced prosecutors in the state, they don't lie. This has seen the head of a Main Opposition who says, "This is Turkey."
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0091par0522	They caught us politically, caught you on the money.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0089par0523	Let's get rid of this double standard. Look, just as the evidence was collected in Ergenekon, against the law, it was collected in 17-25. Investigating with illegal evidence is a parallel state that is acting in a different way, not by bringing together cases that are not related to each other, but by a different version of the trial, Turkey has finally seen these cases.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0092par0525	Good brother, we've seen him before. There's a parallel. We said, "You didn't accept."
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0089par0526	Now, the valuable MPs, the HDP group proposal... yes, after these cases have been finalized, the state-owned construction... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...of course, there are motions to be made here regarding the construction of a parallel state...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0092par0529	Is the parallel parallel to us? It's parallel to you. It's called parallel, you're going side by side.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0089par0530	...and these motions will be put on the agenda of the House once the case is finalized...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0092par0531	So, what's this parallel look like, brother? Two straight lines, right? When one is a terrorist organization, what's the other one?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0093par0532	Let the parallel structure be searched, brother. Let it be searched. Search the top of the cover and the parallel structure.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0089par0533	I salute the General Assembly with these feelings and thoughts.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0094par0535	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0095par0536	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0094par0537	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0095par0538	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Speaker, we've contributed to this case by going out of context and talking about the involvement of some of the Republican People's Party's MPs in this case and...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0094par0539	He also mentioned your Mr. President. Yes, who will speak?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0095par0541	Mr. Tanju Özcan will speak.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0094par0542	Mr. Tanju Özcan, I'll give you two minutes without teasing. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Ozcan, please don't let us challenge a new challenge.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0096par0545	Is that possible?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0094par0546	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0097par0549	Thank you, Mr. President. By God, we've watched this conversation in awe. That can't happen.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0098par0551	Yeah, why are you staring?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0099par0552	You're amazed at the facts, aren't you?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0097par0553	You know, we've seen a lot of you coerce in a lot of things, but I mean, when we were talking here, we waited for the speaker, at least, to blush. Dear AKP lawmakers, your head of staff, who still pretend to be your actual president, come out...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0099par0555	You're famous in the wheel, on the wheel.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0100par0556	Who's your general president?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0097par0557	Did he or did he not say "I am the prosecutor of this case," or did he not say "I am the prosecutor of this case" at the group meeting?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0101par0558	He didn't, I'm the prosecutor of this case. He didn't say.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0097par0559	He's told me over and over that he's behind all the prosecutors.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0101par0560	He didn't.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0097par0561	You're not sincere. Look, when these grenades were first found in the slum, you said, "Look what will come up behind this." You've already set this up. You set this up, and you followed it to the end. Now, what I'm saying is that the speaker here said something that you should be grateful to us. He said, "The Ergenekon defendants should be grateful to us." He said something.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0102par0564	He's right. We're the ones who fixed these laws again.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0097par0565	Yeah, no shame at all, no boredom at all? Look, I want to say this in particular: if there were no December 17th and 25th investigations -- I'm making it clear -- the defendants of this case would still be in prison today, you know that.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0103par0567	How many regulations have we brought to the House?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0097par0568	And you should know, Mr. Yilmaz, that he was involved, that he was involved; do you know how many cases the Ergenekon case was, how many cases were combined there? You've included the pervert who dropped a bomb on the Republican newspaper, you've included him in the same organization, and those who have paid for their political rhetoric are on the same case. It included people of Marxist descent, the former President of January.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0104par0569	Everyone from the Chief of Staff to the corporal was on the case.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0097par0570	I'll never forget, in that case, a former Ülkü January President said to the defendant: "I read an organization called Ergenekon terror organization. I learned that day that I was a member of that organization. Shame on you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0105par0572	The People's Democratic Party Group proposal...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0106par0573	Mr. President, there's teasing.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0105par0574	Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0106par0575	He expressed that we were twisting the words I said. So according to 69, there's bullying, and I want a two-minute promise.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0107par0576	Yilmaz, your words... Mr. President, the witness' words have been answered, the taunting orator.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0108par0578	Here you go, Mr. Bronze. I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0109par0581	We're keeping our rights private, Mr. President. We're keeping our right to tease.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0110par0582	Don't let God put anyone in your position, it's hard, you have to defend...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0111par0583	Don't let God put anyone in this position. Yeah, even Bulent didn't get into this situation.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0110par0584	God help you, brother. Yeah, that's Ergenekon...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0112par0586	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, look, my speech is clear, I have expressed my views on the Ergenekon case, and I have evaluated the verdict, both the Supreme Court decision and the local court decision; I have told you where the public support came from at the beginning of this case, and then I have explained to you the grounds for breaking the Judiciary, and then on December 17-25, with this investigation that you are standing behind, I have stated that the members of the judiciary who are running Ergenekon are the same people who are running Ergenekon.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0111par0587	It's because things got bad between you two, so why don't you tell me?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0112par0588	But you come in here and twist my words, and you just do demagogue without ever mentioning one of them. Look, after the truth about these cases came out, didn't we, as an AK PARTY, reduce ten years of long imprisonment to five years?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0113par0589	No ten years in prison, two years in prison. Misinformation...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0112par0590	Mr. Haberal, Mr. Balbay, would Mr. Özkan be in Parliament today if he hadn't had the right to an individual application to the Constitutional Court, if his ten-year sentence hadn't been reduced to five years? They couldn't be.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0114par0591	Where is Ali Tatar, where is Türkan Saylan? Ali Tatar is dead, Türkan Saylan is dead, a lot of people are dead! What about them? What about the forensic murders? You have no conscience, brother!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0112par0592	You've always said no. If we hadn't made the changes to the structure of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors that you object to -- despite all your objections, we succeeded and we did -- if we hadn't done that, now that HSYK would have continued, and the prosecutors and judges who did that would have stood there, and the structure in the Supreme Court would have continued the same way, and the Ergenekon trial would have been approved by the Supreme Court today. That's what I'm talking about. Why don't you want to understand? I salute you all. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0115par0595	Mr. President, the right to answer...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0116par0596	Wait a second...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0117par0597	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0116par0599	Congressmans, I'm listening to Mr. Ozcan. One second.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0117par0600	You're doing demagoji in the orator talk. I want words according to 69.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0116par0601	Okay, here you go. Don't demagogue, but let's shut down these polemics. Please, Mr. Ozcan, let's not afford another taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0117par0604	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, I just didn't say anything that might mean demagogy, I just did. Yeah, put your hand on your conscience, tell me. I said, did your then-legal president, who is still your actual president, go out and say, "I'm the prosecutor of this case?" Didn't he or she?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0118par0605	No, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0117par0606	What does that mean? I'm the prosecutor of this case. I stand by these claims. Did he say that or not?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0118par0607	Before you know it, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0117par0608	What happened? Sir, the same prosecutors did the same investigation. You've already walked hand-to-hand with those prosecutors for years. We don't know what came between you two, the routing or something? Now that you've had a falling out, you're saying that the same prosecutors conducted this investigation. Guys, I also want to say, of course, Mr. Balbay is here, and it's not for us to speak for him directly, but...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0119par0610	Mr. Balbay will speak for you in a moment, Mr. Özcan.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0117par0611	He says, "Look, if we didn't make these decisions -- and we didn't object to many of them -- Mr. Balbal, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Haberal couldn't be here today." It's like you're the one who gave them the legislature.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0120par0612	I said it couldn't have happened if we hadn't changed. Oh, my God.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0117par0613	Like all of you, they were chosen by the Turkish nation, chosen by our people, sent to Parliament. They're supposed to be...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0121par0614	He's talking about the legal arrangement, the twist.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0117par0615	We have the plague of you not being able to perform the duties of the legislator for three years, and we would expect you to apologize on behalf of our people.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0121par0616	That's not true! It's a legal arrangement, what's that got to do with it? Don't be so hard on me!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0117par0617	But where is your conscience, where is your courage to say so? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0121par0620	There's been a distortion, a legal arrangement.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0122par0621	We don't need to answer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0123par0622	Mr. President, he has the right to answer, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0124par0623	Yes, Mr. Haberal, of course I'll give you my word on your location for a minute.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0123par0624	Two minutes, sir. He has an answer.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0124par0625	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0123par0626	Sir, he gave me the wrong information, Mr. Bronze, I need to fix it, please.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0124par0627	All right, Mr. Haberal, I promise you two minutes of bullying. And you, please, do not challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0123par0630	Of course I won't. Sir, Mr. Bronze once gave false information about my father. My dad got 12 years, he didn't get out of prison. He sued the judges in the court for long detention, and nine judges were punished by the Supreme Court, one. Secondly, the fact that the case was called Ergenekon was wrong in the head, that when you had the soldiers on trial under the name of the coup attempt in this case, you had the PKK's terrorists, your confessors as witnesses, that was the third biggest mistake. The fourth, his opponents...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0125par0633	It wasn't us, it was judgment.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0123par0634	I'm telling it, I'm telling it in general.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0126par0635	Judgement...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0123par0636	I'll come to judgment. It was a mistake if you put the opponents in this bag and gave them the opposition you didn't like on the headlines that day. Look, I'll just say one thing: these journalists, the people who are with you, the people who write to you, the people who write to you -- I said, because they called you "friends," I didn't say that because I thought so -- these people could be tried for the same reason after ten years. Mustafa Balbay and Tuncay Özkan have not written a tenth of what was written today, or even one percent. I've told the judges on trial. I'll tell you one thing about long imprisonment: you've given completely false information; you haven't reduced from ten to five years in long imprisonment, two years in long imprisonment, two years in terror crimes, and vice versa, you've increased it, you've raised it to five years. A ten-year sentence...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0127par0639	Special jurisdictional courts.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0123par0640	You've already set up special jurisdictional courts.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0127par0641	We've removed the DGMs.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0128par0642	We didn't build it!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0123par0643	Look, you moved it, you replaced it with something else, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0127par0645	It was unlimited.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0129par0646	We've lifted the border, the border.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0123par0647	This business, look, about Ergenekon -- we've suffered here -- we're the ones who need to talk the most; we're thirsty, others are talking. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Balbay is silent. Look, there's a person over there, be careful with that. I recognized Atila Bey there, and I recognized him in that court. We fought together to get into that gym, where we both got clubbed. We met there, we didn't have a past before. I'll tell you, if you want to know.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0130par0651	Thank you, Mr. Haberal. The second word in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal belongs to İzmir MP Mustafa Ali Balbay. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0131par0658	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the proposal of the People's Democratic Party. Now, of course, the friends before me spoke of it in very different dimensions. It's really hard to fit all of this stuff in ten minutes, but I'm going to try to get you to reconsider by sharing a few segments and revisit the legal trial of the Justice and Development Party. Congressmans, this is the Supreme Court's ruling. I wish you all to read this decision carefully. The lawmaker emphasizes that there can't be such a case in a way that anyone who isn't a lawyer can easily understand, that such murder of the law cannot be accepted in any way, and that this case is being torn apart from the ground up so much that today, in our other courts, it can really be a guide to the establishment of law in Turkey, in the general sense. Of course, when I read the warnings here, the defamation of the court, none of them seemed familiar to me, because we've all been through it, and they've all been right in front of us... the court has murdered the law with the laws that have been passed in this courtroom. I have many examples to offer, but there is one thing I would like to bring to the attention of our friends who are speaking from the Justice and Development Party. I just want to give you guys an example of a law. The court is making the decision he wants, and with the laws that you have taken out of this courtroom... if he is harmed and is harmed by an upper court, then the judge and the prosecutor will pay for it, and that's the law. During the trial of Ergenekon, many defendants have appealed to the court, considering that their rights have been defeated and long detentions have been taken into account. Mr. Haberal has just stressed, and 8-9 decisions have been issued regarding Mehmet Haberal. Congressmans, the law immediately changed over those wrong decisions of the courts, and it was said: "What does a judge and prosecutor not do with such authority, if there is compensation against the accused when it comes to decisions that have caused him harm?" I say to the lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party: What does not the judge and prosecutor do? What won't he do? Because no matter what decision he makes, the government will pay for it. As a matter of fact, when we reminded them of the Penal Code, they looked us in the eye and said, "Yes, the law says so, but we won't do it." Dear Atila Sertel was in most of them, and even some of them couldn't stand to see the judges, but they thought it would happen again. Again, I'll give you another example, Congressmans. From this hall, the decisions that came out of this room, we were very easily arrested because there is no other reason for doubt. When it came to December 17-25, the law was passed, lawmakers, you put reasonable doubt on the basis of strong evidence, so you put strong evidence on its head. After the December 17th to 25th effect, you made the arrests easier again. So, all the laws of the Ergenekon case are in this room. At that time, Mr. Erdogan said, "We have no doubt about our abscess, we have no doubt about our prayers." Congressmans, if I may say so, this decision of the Supreme Court has violated your absorption. Then you will not be able to pray with it. (HPP) Come, take this abscess again, we were not in charge of this case, then we made new laws. Don't say that. This case is really the case of the century, lawmakers. There are many examples of how law can be slaughtered, how illegal practices can be joined into the law. Again, here, the prosecutor of this case, Zechariah Öz, asked such arbitrary questions that, members of lawmakers, samples take hours. But he was Zechariah's vehicle of authority, Erdogan's armored vehicle, my friends. Erdogan, who drives the Prime Minister's armored car, has made all kinds of ambitious decisions. And now, after this step, in the continuation of this decision by the bride and judge, I urge you to face the law practices of the Justice and Development Party, members of the law, so that the injustices of Ergenekon will never happen again. Here's where the error of procedure... Something like this, I can't get through without giving you another example: imagine the microphones hanging from the top in a courtroom. When the two defendants spoke among themselves, they made a statement about the delegation. The case was filed against him. 20 defendants, lawmakers, were sentenced to 2 to 24 years for what they said in the courtroom. Therefore, it is important to investigate these cases, the Ergenekon case, yes, and to find out where the law was murdered, but for that reason, I'm willing to participate in any investigation into what's going on in Turkey's past. The Republican People's Party has also told us about this -- Mr. Gök has just told us -- that we are against any interference in democracy, but interference in the law, lawmakers, have at least as negative consequences as intervention in democracy. There have been reports of many of those who have lost their lives in these cases. And during the trial, I don't even go into the details of the psychological, spiritual disorders that have been visited by both the defendants and most of their relatives, but unfortunately, the ongoing debate is not just that the Justice and Development Party MPs, just, yes, at the beginning, had, but they tricked us, and then we changed the law. In the beginning of these cases, particularly the Secret Witness Act, which you have issued, the lawmakers, have been so brutally applied in those halls, most of the defendants, in fact, I'm guessing that some of the cause of death was the testimony of those hidden witnesses. When we faced drug traffickers, we knew we were going to do ten years; yours was unclear. Because, the lawmakers who came to us -- I see a lot of our friends here -- this is the last time we've come here, you'll come out. They said, "Because it can't go on anymore." But every time, new cases have been added on top of the cases and they've become what they are today. There's a saying in law: it's the door to the truth. Indeed, first of all, the mistakes made in the procedure resulted in the unification of the cases and the dissolution of the foundation, lawmakers. I don't personally apologize or anything at this point, but as a guarantee that these illegalities will never happen again, I call on everyone to obey the law, to respect the universal principles of the law. For example, yesterday the European Court of Human Rights made a very good decision about Alevi. So I'd expect the Justice and Development Party to say, "Yes, we follow the principles of universal law, which we've already passed for a few days, we'll obey them." They haven't given us an opinion yet. In particular, however, lawmakers, I would like to briefly emphasize that side of the laws on the European floor. When we go to the European Court of Human Rights, for example Mustafa Balbay, I went to ask the European Court of Human Rights who is Mustafa Balbay? Members of parliament, the Ministry of Justice immediately puts all the murders in place, particularly the murder of the State Attorney's Office, and is being tried from this case. Then they slaughtered the most universal principle called the personality of law enforcement in these cases, lawmakers. That's why right now we care about the Supreme Court's decision. In the coming days, we're going to follow this to the end, and we're going to continue to pursue all the unlawfulities here as a congressman who says that even the worst assembly is better than a closed parliament. As the Republican People's Party, we will do everything in our power to establish the establishment of law, democratic, secular, social law in this country, but I ask you, please, read that reason once again and reclaim the abscess. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0132par0676	Today's April 27th, Mr. Balbay, you should have said something about it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0133par0677	The second and final word against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is owned by Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MP Hakan Çavoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0134par0680	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against my fellow lawmakers, a motion by HDP (HDP) on the establishment of a parliamentary research commission on the investigation of Ergenekon's case. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to take you on a journey in our short history before I move on to my assessments and assessments of the Ergenekon case. As you know, Turkey's first election to multi-party political life in 1946 was held in 1950, in secret voting, open booking. The 1950 election ended with the election of the Democratic Party, which was an environmentally opposed, not by the majority of our nation's kahir, the only party in Turkey for twenty-seven years. When the Democratic Party, which was political with the values of the nation and translates into the language and emotion of the nation, experienced election victories between 1950 and 1960, its only party leader CHP and its supporters in the military, the judiciary, the media, the civil society have sought alternatives to ensure that they are in power, despite their failure to win elections. As a result, the most useful way for them was by military and judicial guardianship. This has been repeated throughout our short republic history. In the 1960 coup, the Prime Minister was hanged, had a 1971 manuscript, and in 1980, young people were beaten together to the ground, and the coup was finally carried out. In the first half of the 1990s, he was forced to commit crimes, and the 28 February process was described as a postmodern coup by his actors, and he was again elected President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the April 27 was under way, and the political parties who took power from the nation, as they could not pass into the established democracy in the whole process, did not show any presence, nor did they show any courage, nor did they show any presence. Congressmans, I'd like to ask you now: before the Ergenekon trial, did Prime Minister Menderes and his friends not hang in this country? Weren't tanks run in Sincan, to balance democracy with the Pasha's testimony? Was it always a lie, the briefings in the General Staff, the coming in and out the back door? Wasn't Prime Minister Erbakan forced to resign? Didn't Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the mayor of Istanbul's capital city, just read a poem and get fired and thrown in jail? And at the last point, did the Chief of Staff, Hilmi Ozkok, tell you that I know what you did to the commanders? In the phone calls, one of the headscarfs can't go to Çankaya, but if he does, these are his words. Didn't they say? Isn't this nation's religion, its sanctity, being blasphemed on 60 or so websites? Didn't the president of the main opposition party at 367 freaks say there would be chaos if you didn't point your finger at the Supreme Court? Didn't a newspaper headline young officers saying they were uncomfortable? There were massacres like Hrant Dink, Malatya Summit Publishing House, Reverend Santoro, the Court massacre, as was the case before the coups. Didn't the great professors walk at the republical rally with the army banners on their hands?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0135par0685	Hakan, get to the point!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0136par0686	If you don't give 400 MPs, there will be chaos.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0134par0687	Yes, lawmakers, in an atmosphere where all this happened and especially after the EC PARTI came to power, there was a criminal issue, notice, using algebra and violence, an attempt to eliminate the government of the Republic of Turkey or prevent it from doing its duty, and it was called the Ergenekon case. Imagine, as the victim of the crime issue in that case, the government of the Republic of Turkey is being shown. There's been a number of blows in his past in this country, and the judge has acted because of the attempted coup. There are bombs on the roof of a house, an investigation is being launched, and a person who has been referred to as a witness in the phase of this investigation -- let me underline, my dear friends -- has been invited to appear in the House after the silence accident and has not even responded to this invitation. And in that process, the European Parliament said that this investigation would be a major step towards Turkish democracy. With the investigation, the coup auction party, civil society, academic elements, they're all positioned on the other side. Yes, this is the atmosphere that dominates the Ergenekon process. Congressmans, who knows that this investigation into a coup attempt, which may be a reality, has taken back the support of a number of people in the community, and a sneaky organization has taken over its own agenda, making this case an instrument of slushing within the state, taking on the chief of the general staff the liberty of making it a member of a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0137par0689	Who did this?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0138par0690	You know what he said?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0139par0691	Who's the prosecutor?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0140par0692	Members of parliament, the government's inslaught march into the Ergenekon trial has taken on a different dimension today.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0141par0693	The CHP and the MHP did this, didn't they?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0142par0694	Hakan, do you live on Mars?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0143par0695	Recep Tayyip Erdogan, I'm the prosecutor of this case. If he hadn't said so, he wouldn't have taken the liberty, shame on him!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0144par0696	Actors, prosecutors, judges, who have turned this case into an instrument of designing the state for their own purposes, have camouflaged themselves abroad.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0145par0697	Tell me if there's a coup or a plot against the national army.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0146par0698	Decide, decide!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0144par0699	The government is fighting against these rogues. However, those who stood up against the Ergenekon case that day were sad to say that the actors of this case were surrounded by life-threatening lambs, my friends.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0146par0701	You are.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0147par0702	The circuits are gone, the circuits are really fried!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0144par0703	It has recently reached the summit of the prosecutor of this case and the leader of the main opposition party to make each other beautiful.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0148par0704	Who was the prosecutor of this case, the real prosecutor?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0144par0705	Kemal Kilicdaroğlu.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0148par0706	Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0149par0707	The prosecutor of the case lives in the palace.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0144par0708	Now, pay attention, dear friends, look, it's very important.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0150par0709	But take a breath, breathe.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0149par0710	Breathe, breathe.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0144par0711	Mr. Balbay, Mr. Dursun Flowers, it's very important, be careful. Now, pay attention, dear friends. Date, 9/1/2014. Mr. Kilicdaroglu is also in my constituency, Burma. I was threatened by Zechariah's words. He explains as follows.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0151par0712	Who says, say again, who says?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0144par0713	Kemal Kilicdaroğlu.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0152par0714	Guys, they can barely hear you, so say it again.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0144par0715	Your friends might want to hear it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0153par0716	But breathe, slowly.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0144par0717	▪Zekeriya Öz, a man who has served the state for many years and served the state, says who? Kılıçdaroğlu. ▪ There is no need for him to lie. If the Prime Minister threatened me, sent two people, it's probably true. As long as the Prime Minister doesn't give us a satisfactory statement, we'll take credit for the self-explainment. Ergenekon prosecutor.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0154par0719	What's the big deal, Hakan?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0144par0720	What is this, guys? What is this?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0154par0721	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0155par0722	What do we understand?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0144par0723	The prosecutor of the Ergenekon case, Oz.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0156par0724	What do we get out of this?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0144par0725	Then you respected Ergenekon, and you respected Ergenekon.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0156par0726	What do you really know about that?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0144par0727	Why did you trick people? Why did you hide the truth? Tell me.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0157par0729	The Prime Minister has made a statement; how is he guilty?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0158par0730	What did Recep Erdogan say? Tell him that.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0159par0731	I'm the prosecutor. Who says I'm the prosecutor? Come to the prosecutor, the prosecutor!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0732	So, according to Kilicdaroglu, Oz was a public servant, saw the state, saw the government, didn't lie, was he?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0161par0733	Yeah, before, government officials didn't lie, they didn't swear.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0734	Now, you're going to come up here and you're going to say,
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0162par0735	Guys, it's irony, irony, humor, irony!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0736	We knew him as a prosecutor, dear friends.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0162par0737	If you don't understand irony, if you don't understand humor, what do we do with you?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0738	But everything changed when we found out he was a militant.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0163par0739	That's when you figured it out?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0740	But you were a militant during the Ergenekon trial, and now you're friends.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0164par0741	There's irony, there's humor.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0742	Look, I'll tell you something else...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0164par0743	What did you say? You said Zakeriya is writing her own history.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0744	What, then, did Zechariah Oz do in the face of this beauty of Mr. Kilicdaroglu?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0165par0745	What did your dynasty do?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0746	I ask you, what did he do?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0166par0747	What did he do? What did he do?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0748	Look, you know what he did? Speak, honest leader, speak.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0167par0750	For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0751	Oh, my God, you guys, what a party you are!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0168par0752	What a man you are!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0753	You're a platform, not a party. You're a platform where various groups come together.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0168par0754	You said clean hands operation.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0755	And, friends, there's one thing these opposition lawmakers put in their mouths. What's it called, Mr. President? He called the case "I'm the prosecutor."
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0169par0756	Yeah. Didn't he?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0757	He didn't say that. You can't just...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0169par0758	How could he not say that? How could he not say that?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0759	Look, listen, I'll explain.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0169par0760	Is that all it takes? How could he not?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0761	Listen, I'll explain.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0170par0762	What are you going to do if he says? What will you do if we prove it?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0763	You know what Baykal says when he says to himself, "I'm a lawyer." You know what the D.A. says?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0171par0764	If he did... if he did...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0765	Mr. President has made a statement to that, he says... Look, listen, please. Please, I beg you... At the time, Mr. Baykal, president of the CHP, called our Prime Minister a prosecutor. So see what our Prime Minister says: they're giving us the prosecutor's office again, thank God, when we haven't assigned ourselves any qualifications. That's a good thing, too.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0172par0768	He said so himself, Hakan, don't!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0769	Why? The prosecutor is there on behalf of the people, the prosecution is there on behalf of the people, and we are in the effort to seek the right and the right to defend the people.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0172par0770	You didn't listen to the speech.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0771	If he's a prosecutor in that sense, yes, he says I'm a prosecutor. Where the hell does it go because I'm the prosecutor of Ergenekon?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0173par0773	Where does it take place? You're making it all up, you're making it up!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0160par0774	Please don't look people in the eye and contradict the truth here.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0173par0775	You'll be as humiliated as you were in a straight line! Don't be like that!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0174par0776	How many times has he said it?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0173par0777	Look it up.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0175par0778	Dear friends, this is out of the question. I salute you all again with these thoughts and feelings. I'd especially like to ask the Republican People's Party to review itself.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0176par0782	Didn't people review on November 1st?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0177par0783	Then you support the motion.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0178par0784	I'm a public prosecutor. He doesn't say I'm a prosecutor. He says I'm a prosecutor.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0179par0785	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0180par0786	Yes, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0181par0787	On November 1st, people went over it, bro! It's still 2019.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0180par0788	Mr. Lawmakers, please, I promised Mr. Gök. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0182par0790	In his speech, Mr. Speaker -- and not to mention the following -- he's encouraged our party, our group, to take the hit, and today --
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0180par0791	Who will speak, Mr. Sky?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0182par0792	Mr. Cihaner will speak, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0180par0793	Mr. Cihaner, I'll give you two minutes without teasing. Please, let's not afford another tease. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0183par0798	Yeah, well, I'm telling you, our problem is a question of consistency and morality.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0184par0800	Yes, our moral problem is this country's problem! The problem with this country is the moral problem in opposition, right!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0183par0801	Look, I'm going to read to you now: When there are clean hands in Italy, those who imitate Italy to Turkey, please respect those who operate clean hands in Turkey right now.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0185par0802	Who said that, Ilhan Cihaner?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0183par0803	It was Recep Tayyip Erdogan who said that.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0185par0804	Who did he say that to?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0183par0805	At the very beginning.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0186par0806	Yeah, that day, that's right.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0183par0807	Look, we don't really need to mix it up too much here, but the critical point is that we've been tricked. Now, Recep Tayyip Erdogan may have been deceived because...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0187par0808	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0183par0809	Yes, your president may have been deceived; but how were you deceived?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0188par0811	He's your president, too.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0187par0812	Our President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0188par0813	President of all of us.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0189par0814	Our President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0190par0815	Mr. Karakelle, how were you deceived in Erzincan? You know the secret witnesses there, Recep Erdogan, we were tricked. Did you wake up at work? Or Mr. Cahit, you just called me from there. Do you remember those banners you had opened about me in Denizli? Do you remember what you said? Look, there's no need to twist here, we have to learn the mechanism of deception here. One can be fooled, but how was a total political movement deceived? We need to learn to be fooled. So you found out on the morning of December 17th or 25th that you were deceived, what happened? (CHP clapping in rows) The origins of this work go back a long time. You're talking about Ilker Basbug, why were prosecutors removed from office on December 17th and 25th, and not the prosecutor who called the Chief of Staff "terrorist" on that day? In the same speech, Recep Tayyip Erdogan says: "Let's see how far it goes; don't interfere, respect." Now, you've seen and dismissed the criminal investigations of the prosecutor on December 17th-25th, and why didn't you take those from that period? You say five years, ten years. What if you pronounce it five years too easily? Do you justify five years of wrongful imprisonment? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, the European Court of Human Rights has been four years and six months, and that's when...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0191par0819	Where are you standing right now?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0190par0820	I'm standing right where I used to be.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0192par0822	Yes, Mr. Cihaner, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0193par0823	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0192par0824	Wait a second... I was going to give Mr. Haberal a moment. [[Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ……]] One moment, Mr. Lawmakers, please... Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0194par0829	Mr. President, for the record, there are a few things I'd like to express in a few sentences. The speaker's speech is not a conversation we'll be dealing with from the beginning to the end.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0195par0831	Don't be!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0194par0832	In the 1960 coup, the speaker expressed the words of the Republican People's Party that encouraged the coup.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0196par0833	Even I can't save you. He said!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0194par0834	In the 27 April e-mutation, the Prime Minister of the day, the current President, seems to have forgotten that the Chief of General Staff, who gave the E-mutation of April 27th, was given a superior service medal by the Council of Ministers by the Council of Ministers' decision. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In addition, the Republican People's Party is a party closed in a military coup on September 12, 1980. The Republican People's Party has always been the victim of coups, the AKP ranks, the AKP's friends haven't even met the coup yet. In 1960, Mr. Adnan Menderes made the greatest effort to prevent the executions of Menderes.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0197par0838	No way!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0194par0839	Ismet Inönu did his best not to have those executions.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0197par0840	Yeah, yeah!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0194par0841	By distorting all these historical facts, I am returning this speech to him, which is devoid of humanity and conscience, in the course of the trial of Ergenekon and the death of seven people, and disregarding the four years and five years of our friends, who are still lawmakers among us. I'm returning it to him! [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] It's a very low speech, very unfair speech...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0198par0844	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0194par0845	I am returning to him every word that he has committed to the Republican People's Party. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0199par0848	With kindness, with strength!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0200par0849	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0201par0850	Yes, Mr. Gök, only a whole nation knows that you have made your stand clear against the declaration of April 27th concerning Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0202par0852	Yeah, you gave him a medal, a medal!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0203par0853	Get down, get down!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0204par0854	Mr. President, why are you having these discussions? Why are you getting involved in all this?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0205par0855	So, as a whole nation, as all political parties, as all Parliaments, we all share a common position against all coups.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0204par0856	Why are you getting into these arguments?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0205par0857	On the one hand, I don't think it's right to get up and say that the coupgers have been rewarded.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0206par0858	Mr. President, you're the Deputy Speaker of the House, not the vice president of the group! You're the Deputy Speaker!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0205par0859	Yes, I'm the Deputy Speaker of the House.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0206par0860	Like the vice president of the group...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0205par0861	I mean, what's wrong with me testifying against the blows? What's wrong with it?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0207par0862	Speak downstairs!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0206par0863	Mr. President, you are in charge of the General Assembly, you are on the side. Don't side with the arguments.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0205par0864	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0208par0865	Mr. President, in the speech of Mr. Cihaner, who was just speaking, he used a lot of absurd phrases, such as "returning to our group" and "reckless."
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0205par0866	Here you go, Mr. Turan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0208par0870	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It's April 27th. It wasn't much, it was a time when many of us were witnesses, and many of us were surrogates.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0209par0872	Yeah, he got a medal, he got a medal! You gave me a medal!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0210par0873	Tanju, listen to me, listen to me!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0209par0874	What's it to you?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0211par0875	Just now, Mr. Speaker, I'm sorry to say that he's made statements, such as "outlaw" and "out-of-the-box" and "out-of-the-box" and "out-of-the-box" and "out-of-the-box" and "out-of-the-box." First of all, we see that this type of language has become the appropriate form of CHP, and we're sad. I'm sorry to see the rhetoric, the shallowness, where a 90-year-old party comes from, and I'm sorry to say I'm returning it. However, I'd like to underline one thing. I think it's important to express a matter in a way that our people understand with fairness, with justice. That's the last thing anyone's going to say to this group. [Laughter and applause from chp rows!]
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0212par0876	My God, my Lord!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0211par0877	On April 27th, everyone experienced just yesterday what people were saying, how the Regents were approaching. Look, I've got it all in front of me now.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0213par0878	Yeah, parallel structure, Yasar Grananit, what the hell!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0212par0879	Yeah, just yesterday in Can Dündar's decision, the day before...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0211par0880	It's April 27th, this group has stood up to one side, stood up to democracy, stood up against the wrong, didn't fire a single shot. This group still remembers the night proudly on April 27th. But one more thing, there's another group, and I can read what you're saying. There are many examples that say, "Bravo to the judges!," "Bravo to the officers!" "Bravo to the judges!" "Bravo to the judges!" "Bravo to the judges!" "Bravo to the judges!" "Bravo to the judges!" "Bravo to the judges!" "Bravo to the judges!" "Bravo to the judges!"
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0214par0881	Says who?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0215par0882	Where are those who say yes to military duty?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0216par0883	You are an example and an example.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0217par0884	I think that's shame. What twist?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0218par0885	What did you talk to the great monument, the great monument?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0217par0886	We're where we were yesterday in the coups.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0219par0887	Do you have a sense of shame?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0217par0888	But Mr. President just told me. In our history, we're always opposed to blows. Their own group began to laugh.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0220par0889	No one laughed.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0219par0890	What makes you say that?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0221par0891	You're lying!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0220par0892	Don't lie, don't lie!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0222par0893	Everyone knows whose vote the Seawalker was hanged by. Everyone knows what hit you anyway. I salute you again.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0223par0896	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0224par0897	One second, I'll promise Mr. Haberal one minute first. Mr. Haberal's been in the system a long time. Then I'll give it to you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0225par0898	Sir, I'm here to report...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0224par0899	Okay, go ahead, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0226par0900	Tell me what you did in Dolmabahçe.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0227par0901	What did you do in Dolmabahçe?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0228par0902	Yeah, why'd you give him a medal? He's got a medal!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0229par0903	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0230par0904	Mr. President, you're not supposed to make that assessment as Acting Speaker. We need to remind him. On May 4th, Yaşar Buyukanit and Mr Erdogan had secret talks in Dolmabahçe to evaluate their e-mutation in all its dimensions. These will go with us to the grave. Their statements are meaningful and are hidden from the public, from the nation. There is definitely an inconsistency in terms of power. And this armored car thing has become a symbol. The appointment of an armoured car for the Ergenekon prosecutor and the award of a state medal for the Buyukanit. If these symbols are applied and the Dolmabahçe talks are not announced, certainly all the rhetoric of the ruling party and its ruling owners is doomed to remain in the air. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0231par0908	Thank you. Mr. Haberal, I'll give you a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0232par0913	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, now, we need to end this Ergenekon matter here. Because no one knows the nature of this case in detail, except those who know it, and no one knows the nature of it. But Mr. Sergeant just gave a speech, and I need to fix it. Because he spoke to the press as he did, Mr. Sergeant, to the army. There were professors opening the banner.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0233par0915	There was one! It was in Tandoğan Square! There was a Turan!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0232par0917	I'll tell you, sir, look, you don't know...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0234par0918	Name one, a professor who opens that banner!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0233par0919	I've got you in the first place!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0232par0920	There was no professor who hung the banner. There was a gentleman named Gökçe Firat, the Turkish Head of Left Left, who carried the banner, who was also tried and acquitted for carrying the banner. Do you know who this Gökçe Firat is? It appeared in the honor of the community, you know. Do you know who this Gökçe Firat is? We'll hang you with this rope for the President. That's why he's been arrested; because he's been arrested. But because you didn't know all this, and it was reflected in the press at the time, the army carried the banner. You say professors carried it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0235par0921	Thank you, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0236par0922	One sign or one?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0232par0923	An incident, sir, an incident, an incident.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0237par0924	Come on, come on, it wasn't one!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0238par0925	Everybody's got him, Mr. President! People caught it in the trunk, buried it, don't worry!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0239par0926	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0240par0927	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0239par0928	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0240par0929	Speaking as AKP Group Deputy President, the Republican People's Party's Speaker said he understood how inclined Republican People's Party are to twist too, without taunting...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0239par0930	Here you go, Mr. Sky. I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not make a new mess.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0241par0935	Mr. President, we all have to have a conscience. People were arrested, they spent five years in prison, they spent their lives in a cell, seven people died during trial, they called it Ergenekon's safe, and they branded all the people who were owed $35,000 to the People's Bank. When these events take place, this case is political. Please respect the one who is doing these operations in my country against the Republican People's Party. Why do you keep hitting him? Why do you keep saying, "He who has not doubted what you have just mentioned, "He who has no doubts about Abdestin has no doubt about his past. He has embraced Zechariah Oz. After the 27th of April e-mutation, the Council of Ministers issued the e-mail as a coup lover with the order of the coup d'état and gave the note to the person who was given the award, given the Supreme Service Medal by the Council of Ministers' decision, and pulled the armored car under it. Now they say: "The People's Party of the Republic thinks differently." No, friends, when you run this country, you say: "We were deceived, it turned out to be a parallel structure." At one point, you say: "He is the son of a bitch who sits at the table with the PKK. Then we threw the solution into the refrigerator. You say. The PKK has deceived us again. You say so. Dolmabahçe is being negotiated, Efkan Ala is there, Mahir Ünal is there, Yalçın Akdoğan is there, everyone is shaking hands. There is no agreement. When you say, "You're all turning around, you're doing the right thing.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0239par0937	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0242par0938	Mr. President, I have something to explain.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0239par0939	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0243par0940	Mr. President, we responded to that tone, and I don't want to repeat it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0239par0941	Okay, you got it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0244par0942	People answered in the trunk, that's clear.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0245par0943	Mr. President, please talk about me. Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0239par0944	Mr. Sergeant, please...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0245par0945	I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0239par0946	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0245par0949	Mr. Sky said something in his place, saying he didn't feel the need to respond to my views.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0246par0950	What did I say? I told him how you moved it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0245par0951	I listened to him very carefully, and they returned him to me, but I'll tell you one thing in particular, Mr. Gök: you haven't seen a blow yet. What in God's name does that mean?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0247par0952	Same old, same old!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0246par0953	Sir, they've been hit, and they're giving me a service medal, I've been trying to tell you!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0248par0954	Mr. President, the lawmakers have been notified.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0249par0955	What does that mean? Look, there's a saying, and I don't want to say it here; it shows the plan behind your head, who's the coupger, and who's not.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0248par0959	I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0250par0960	Mr. President... Mr. President... Mr. President, just a second...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0251par0963	Mr. President, we want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit01spe0248par0964	He's got a roll call, and I'll meet this roll call first. Mr. Gök, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Altay, Mr. Güyük, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Akyıldım, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Tekin, Mr. Özdemir. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0248par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 82nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Before the vote of the People's Democratic Party group, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 27/04/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. Aydın MP Hüseyin Yıldız and 26 MPs have identified the reasons for air pollution in Aydın and around him, the impact of geothermal plants on land, water and air pollution, and the motion for Parliamental research on Turkey's top-of-the-line cancer cases, given to the Turkish Parliament's presidency on 01/03/2016, in order to investigate the above-average cases. lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read in Wednesday's Wednesday (27/04/2016), and held in the same dated combination of their talks. The first statement in favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal belongs to Aydın MP Huseyin Yildıl. Here you go, Mr. Star. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, please stop humming in the hall. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0252par0026	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, my fellow citizens watching us on television, I give you all my love and respect. My fellow lawmakers, you know, I've brought this matter up three or four times on this bench, but unfortunately there hasn't been any action in Aydın. According to the Geothermal Law, which was issued in 2007, the geothermal license of Aydın's facial measurement was granted 80 per cent. So, here is the map of Aydın. All the areas in red are licensed to build the geothermal power plant. Now, you know, Aydın is a county of 17 districts, where two counties live on tourism, and the other 15 counties live on agriculture. The population of Aydın was 1,100,000 people before that, 80 percent of them lived on agriculture, and everyone was happy. After the AKP came to power in 2002, Aydın returned to a city that emigrated from a city that was migrating because of agricultural policies. So, with eight MPs in 2002, right now, after the 2015 General Elections, I'm sorry to say, he's being represented by seven members of Aydın. Dear friends, we are not opposed to this geothermal power plant. We are uncomfortable with the use of a technology that was previously thrown away in Europe and applied to the Enlightenment. Dear friends, this is the place used for the geothermal power plant in Aydın. There are at least 10 of them, 15 of them. So, after this geothermal power plant was set up, I'm sorry to say, the cancer thing has increased in Aydın. Just two weeks ago, the head of the district board's son died of stomach cancer at the age of 16, God rest his soul, may he rest in peace. At 16, we looked into it, stomach cancer is a disease most likely from being poisoned in food. My dear friends, while I'm making a motion to investigate here, I'm speaking to all AKP MPs: A research commission will already be yours; let's go with the Republican People's Party, HDP and MPHP to investigate, and then we'll find the necessary answer. We, the Enlightenment MPs, have come here to solve the problems of Aydın. Why else would we be a congressman? People sent us here to solve problems in the light. Again, I'm sorry to say, do you know who brought me these pictures? He brought 22 NGOs from Aydýl. He gave them to me, dear friends. So I'm asking you, especially the AKP lawmakers, to support this motion because there are rumors among the public that the MPs of the AKP are consulting these three companies. I don't believe it, but if you don't support this motion, these rumors will become real, dear friends. Dear friends, I've told you before, the fig produced in Turkey is a hundred and sixty-three of which are being produced in Aydın. 20 percent of the olive oil produced in Turkey is produced in Aydin. 15 per cent of the cotton produced in Turkey is produced in Aydın. That chestnut that was produced in Turkey, 36% of what you sell as Bursa chestnuts is produced in Aydın. So 80 percent of the population live on agriculture, but you're only forcing 1 million people to emigrate to make three companies rich. Dear lawmakers, we only have $200 million in fig exports in Aydın, so we have about $600 million in exports in agricultural products. Last week, when I was on my way to Aydın, I visited Tarish, and they gave it to me. So our figs on the side of that power plant have increased the sulfur rate by 180 percent, 180 percent, dear friends. We are here to deal with our figs, our figs, our olives, our chestnuts, and the problems of the people of Aydın, and we are fighting for them, or we have no problem with the other company. We have to create a technology that's adaptable to the environment, so if that company doesn't bring in that technology to spend $1.5 million less, then you're gonna have to cancel that company's license. Dear friends, just last week, in Aydın last week, unfortunately, I regret to say, they've gone instead of the knitter, they've opened a well instead of the knitter, where it's a historical monument, a land of status. They went and dug a well in the health clinic's garden. I can't... So, basically, they're being looted right now, dear friends. If you're really sincere, if you want the people of Aydın to benefit, I'm calling the AKP MPs from here: Let's heat up 100,000 dwellings with geothermal water. Come on, let's do greenhousery in 100,000 hectares. Let's create jobs for 100,000 people from the people of Aydın. I mean, let's not just use geothermali on electricity, let the people of Aydın take advantage. Three companies from Istanbul or other places or Israel will come, using the natural resources of my Aydın. Then they will damage the environment. They will damage my fig, they will damage my cotton; they will damage my olive, and I will support them. Friends, if you do not support this motion, you are not on the public side of the people. The people of Aydin are watching us. 150 faxes came in today. I got a fax from all the NGOs. On this matter, please, I ask you: Come, give this motion of investigation, let us set up a research commission, and we will solve this problem together as AKP, CHP, MPHP, HDP. Otherwise, 15 years from now, the Enlightenment will be desert, my dear friends. We don't want anything. At the same time, you will have closed these comments on the street about your MPs doing the counseling of those companies. This is in the interest of the AKP, because the people of Aydın gave you four MPs in 2002, three in 2007, three in 2011, and three in 2015. I'm particularly speaking to AKP's Aydın MPs, and I'm speaking to the Aydın MP of the CHP: Let's form a joint commission, let's solve this problem. Otherwise, they will not represent seven MPs in 2019, but five members of the Council of Ministers. Currently in Turkey, among the provinces, the highest unemployment rate of those who have finished colleges is in Aydin, 12 per cent. You know why? That's why you've finished farming, all of our college students are free right now. If 100 people are calling a day, 90 should want a job. They're probably looking for more AKP MPs, looking for at least 200 people. Dear friends, as Republican People's Party MP, our goal here is not to disparage AKP. There was a law in 2007, a false law. Let's set up a research commission together, let's go look at the problem in Aydın. Let's set up a new law. Why do you change the other laws of 2012 and play with the future of a city with 1,100,000 people? And I'll tell you this, my friends, if this research commission isn't set up... the vegetables and fruits we produced in Aydın are scattered all over Turkey. I mean, your kids eat it, my kids eat it, we all eat our kids. Let's make the right decision, support this research motion, go together, examine it, solve this problem. I give you all my love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0253par0044	Thank you, Mr. Star. Congressmans, by the way, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, who has not been with us for a long time, who we can't see because of his illness, is among us today. We ask him to get well again, we ask God to cure us, we pray for good works. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Here you go, Mr. Akçay. One moment, please...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0254par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to welcome Mr. Nurettin Canikli and wish him well. We're very pleased to see him at the General Assembly today. Also, I'd like to express my condolences and welcome our friend, Mr. İlknur Encesik, the Deputy Director of the Group. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0255par0057	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0256par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, of course, between political debates, we always have to do our human and conscientious duties. As much as we argue, our friendship is united under this House, and first of all, I offer my condolences to him and to his entire family for the late father of Mr. First Minister of the AKP Group, Mr. İnnur Encess. Again, our dear brother, our friend, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, deputy leader of the AKP Group, I express my gratitude for having him among us today. I wish him well, I wish him success. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0257par0065	Thank you very much. Dear Canikli, we miss your voice. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0258par0069	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I'm really, really happy to be back here after a long break-up, after a mandatory breakup, after about five months of separation. All friends, I am once again extremely happy to see the beautiful faces of our friends, and in that time, I thank all our friends, who have called, supported, and expressed their sincere wishes in secret or as a healer. Their sincere desire, their prayers, of course, is extremely important for this difficult process. I thank all my friends, I thank them, I pay my respects. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0259par0073	We welcome you back. The first word against the Republican People's Party group proposal is from Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran. Here you are, Mr. Acar Basian.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0260par0080	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It's basically a matter of taking promises against him. I've actually made a promise in favor of this proposal.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0259par0081	We gave our warning at first, but let me do it one more time. Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0260par0083	First of all, I think it should start with this: Unfortunately, especially today from the first day of 13 years of AKP power, we see a policy that completely ignores the ecological system, completely hostile to nature. Unfortunately, as a result of these policies, many projects that have now destroyed many forested areas under the name of the Third Bridge have been implemented in the AKP's ruling process, which, unfortunately, has now destroyed all forested areas under the name of the Düble Roads, in the name of the Third Bridge. As I was saying, the AKP that waged war on all sides has also waged war on nature, and we see it. Unfortunately, we're dealing with a number of policies that completely destroy nature, completely devoid of ecological consciousness. As a result -- as the congressman has just stated -- it's a matter of rethinking projects that could destroy our own future, our own future, the world we live on -- at the expense of just a few people, at the cost of making them rich. So, as we say, this is what we're talking about in this sense of suggestion, I'm going to talk about the environmental and natural damage of a geothermal facility in Aydın, but as a whole, actually, these ecological and anti-natural policies in Turkey. You know, as I've just stated, the AKP, which has decided to build a dam in the smallest puddle, has now signed under the project of watering down 14 thousand years of history in Hasankeyf district of Batman for a dam with only 50 years to come. There's a tunnel in the House on the way here, you've all been through it. There are a lot of green areas on the wall of that tunnel, a lot of historical artifacts. However, I think it's especially appropriate that the MPs in the ruling ranks and the AKP will have to throw a cross on those images every time they pass power, or they'll have to wipe them out and put a picture of the dams they put in place. Because many places in those pictures will not be there for a while, it will either be underwater or completely destroyed. Each time we say here, as we say, one of the reasons why Hasankeyf is so important is because it is home to 14 thousand years of history. Today we're carrying the Hasankeyf. It's called a miniature, really freaky Hasankeyf project. However, none of them will be like the current Hasankeyf. We all know that because the ecological balance there is going to be completely screwed up, the habitats there will be completely destroyed. We don't really understand the logic of getting up there with just 50 years of a project and destroying such a great history when it's clear that many species of animals are going to be destroyed. But on the other hand, we understand, on the other hand, that each time, these geothermal projects, HESEs, where they all end up, certain companies, and how those companies are connected to who they are, and sometimes they're forced to, but we all read and see in some newspapers. Just to make someone rich, like I said, we don't need to make this world that we live on. Because as a result, you know that one of the countries where the cancer rate is now the highest is Turkey. The reason for this is one: specifically these HESEs, geothermal facilities and coal stoves. So even today, even in Cerattepe, there may have been a step back from the intense pressure and intense resistance of the people, but we do know that there will be an effort to continue this project. However, the whole world gave up coal mines today. No more coal mines are used in any country in the world; this is no longer used as an energy source. Because as a result of coal furnaces, as a result of the release of toxic gases into the atmosphere, nature is destroyed, as well as many plants and vegetations and animals in nature have been destroyed, and in essence, we produce the poison that enters our bodies with our own hands. While we are still seeing the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster today, I don't think it makes any sense for us to create these diseases with our own hands, to do so much damage to our own body, to our own world. We need to be clear that we need to stand as one against these geothermal facilities, coal mines, HESESTs, and all of them. That's why we're going to vote for him, and that's why all the lawmakers here have to stand up for them in front of all the public. Because even though we carry the will of the nation and say that we are here by their will, there is no question that we are asking the people, the people of Aydın, the people of Hasankeyf, the people of Batman, the people of Cerattepe, do you want this project here? They're not asked, but you're being asked to hand over their rights, their rights, their laws. So we have to take steps in places where they are not asked -- not ignoring their will, not ignoring yours or ours as a whole -- to consider their demands and their interests. However, if we're going to act in a way that we're going to be completely capitalist, completely feeding big investors, just to get people to take a chance, as you say, the nation you're always saying will stand against us like Cerattepe, standing before us like Trip, three days from now, it'll look like Hasankeyf. Despite the decision to be forced out today at Hasankeyf, the Hasankeyf people do not leave their homes because there is no way that the Hasankeyf people have been asked about the Ilisu Dam in Hasankeyf. With a centralist understanding, let's stop putting these projects into practice. Let's go and ask the people of Hasankeyf: What good is the Ilisu Dam to them? Is it going to help us, or what good it does us, and what damage it does us? Come on, let's ask the public, and we'll ask them for opinions and suggestions. Alone, as if we're all powerful, let's sign under a lot of projects from here, threaten the health of all the people, destroy an entire history, and, as I said, we'll make a motion to study the results of these projects that may be effective on the health of our grandchildren in the future, and step back. As I said, in three days, we'll be living in Turkey, the same as in Chernobyl. In Europe, roads are being made just for the animals to cross, while we sign under the projects that will kill thousands of animals without a conscience. I also think that we should consider these things, and I think that there might be a precedent for having to back down from these central decisions, especially with a broad investigation of all these projects in Turkey, especially Aydın, and ask the public as soon as possible, and just by asking the public, I think that we should take steps in this direction by asking the public about their ability to do everything. In particular, as I said, I think it's necessary for this commission to be established in order to investigate the effects of geothermal facilities in Aydın on society, climate, the world and our own body; in the absence of this commission, just as our friend said, people will ask us to account for it two days later, and the first ones who refuse it will be you, if you refuse it, will be in the order of power. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0261par0092	Thank you, Mr. Acar Basian. The second word in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal belongs to Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0262par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, I have made a pledge on the Republican People's Party group proposal. But before I begin my words, I would like to convey my wish to Mr. Nurettin Canikli and salute you again. Actually, as the National Movement Party Group, we've made two motions. One of them -- we gave it to him last week -- was about the pollution problem created by geothermal energy, which had to be controlled; and the second was about soil and water pollution, particularly the Menderes basin. But yours came before ours. And right now, I would like to take a vote on both pollution from geothermal energy and soil and water pollution. Air pollution, unfortunately, began with the rise of geothermal energy in Aydın, or rather the discovery of other riches of Aydın, as well as geothermal wealth. Unfortunately, so unsupervised, so exploited, the well was opened that the inspection of this place, the control of these plants, was always left in the background. Look, we're in the first row of air pollution in Aydın today, and we're coming after Bursa. Those who wake up in the morning or smell the air in the middle of the night find the smell of sulfur gas. Our Enlightenment used to greet you with the scent of citrus trees, the scent of jasmine, when you smelled the air. I speak of this as a living deputy, who still lives in the Light and in the Indulgence, whose family lives, his friends, his friends, his relatives. We're here for the Aydıns, we're here for all of Turkey, we're here for the Turkish nation, and we have to defend everyone's rights. There is not only air pollution in the light, but unfortunately our figs, our olives, are being damaged because of the uncontrollable production and the fluids that cause pollution of the environment, or the steam that they release into the air, along with increased geothermal energy. There's a scientific study done by Adnan Menderes University. As a result of this study, certain proportions have been found in figs, particularly in areas near the geothermal field in our Germencik district. Now, scientifically, I'm not going to give them to you one by one, it's going to take a lot of time. Again, other than that, we're seeing cancer cases increasing rapidly. Our children are getting cancer, our adults are getting cancer, and most importantly, it's not just Aydıl's problem; all of Turkey consumes what we produce, or is exported to the world, and other nations eat it. Again, soil pollution is very important. One of the major causes of soil pollution, unfortunately, is pollution from the Menderes basin, from the Menderes River. I want to bring this up myself: I want to focus on the reasons for pollution of the Menderes River, which is that when we look at the deaths in Aydın, we see that there are more of them in the settlements near the Menderes River; industrial waste is the first cause. Again, geothermal waste... by not reinventing the fluids they're extracting, unfortunately, has claimed to have been left to Menderes, which is a very serious claim. Again, unplanned urbanization and municipal waste... unfortunately, not every municipality has a treatment facility. Domestic waste, extreme fertilizer and exterminating... look, there's something very interesting about two-thirds of the pesticides consumed in Turkey that are reported to have been consumed in Western Anatolia. Although its use was banned many years ago, the new measurements were still detected at a depth of 90 centimeters in the plains of Söke. Again, there are mines and chemical wastes in the Five Finger Mountains. They reach the Menderes River with tea in China. Again, more than 80 per cent of the need for drinking and using water in Aydın is covered by underground waters, and there is pollution in these waters. The reasons for these are: First, there is too much burying waste in Aydın, and second, intensive use of agricultural medicines unconsciously; third, geothermal excavations are very intense and out of control; and fourth, they are floods of the Menderes River. The chemical and physical pollution waste of the mines in Centralköy and Çamlıyurt is a threat to human health by reaching the Deer Dam, which is the source of the drinking water of Bodrum and Milas. As a result of this pollution, living beings have also been destroyed in China's Tea. There's a Characterization Report and Precautions Program for the Great Menderes Basin. From 2009 to 2015, water demand was expected to double in the basin. Unfortunately, until this year, the measures are not being taken, and unfortunately, we're looking at the report. As we review the headlines in the Grand Menderes River Characterization Report, a risk assessment emerges, which is a very serious problem. The risk report states that we believe that pollution from the industrial sector will increase by 2015 and that all businesses in the basin will not be able to cleanse waste water. We believe there are social barriers to the execution of criminal sanctions in this direction. We believe that these businesses will continue to discharge waste except wastewater, water masses, and nature. In the current situation, we believe that there is no administrative and political commitment to the taking of measures to prevent this, and there are no indications that this could happen during the period of 2015. As of May 2009, we are looking six years later, and the predictions of the Great Mendezres Platform, unfortunately, were correct. And it's added to the waste of geothermal wells. There's the Precaution Program again. In the report, we've identified only six of the 64 measures needed to be taken. Fifty-eight measures, no sanctions, no apps. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs will say that the DSI General Directorate, the Water Management General Directorate, is responsible for this negative painting because we are not dealing with another one. These are the institutions that need to take care of these matters. The Precautions Program must be implemented immediately, and consultation mechanisms with NGOs should be set up in order for measures to be implemented and followed. Otherwise, both the habitats in the basin will be uninhabitable and the continuation of agricultural activities in this basin, which produces a significant amount of age and dry fruit, vegetables. There's work to be done about this, folks. There's a lot of work to be done. As a result of these scientific studies, I'd like to focus on a number of things that we consider very important and urgent: First, environmental experts must be assigned to all industries. Second, all industries must use the best available technologies to desalinate waste water. Again, wastewater treatment facilities with advanced decontamination in sensitive areas need to be expanded. We need to encourage the decontamination of geothermal waters or regeneration. The quarry and mining pollution need to be reduced. Farmers need to be trained in good agricultural practices, which should prevent the use of pesticides. The use of animal fertilizer should be encouraged. All wells of drinking water need to be built around their containment fields. There must be buffer strips along the waterways, support for organic agriculture around drinking water fields and dams. The development and mapping of wells' records, licensed to draw water from the surface and underground waters, the study of climate change scenarios for the Great Menderes, and the exuberance are very important; it causes pollution, and it causes soil loss. This study has to be done. Dear Regents, the problem of Aydın is not only the problem of Aydın, but it is not the problem of the Enlightenment. As I was saying, we're dealing with a very serious problem here, and it's not just geothermal, it's all about all the provinces in the Menderes basin. Everyone is at risk, from the source of Menderes to the Aegean Sea. We are responsible for the health of the Turkish nation and for its best living standards, for its healthy diet, for its living in healthy air. So I say to our friends at all political parties, especially the Enlightenment: Come, let's all make a group proposal. The Menderes basin, or even the Gediz basin, where there is pollution, wherever there is pollution, let us resolve what is irregular; let us encourage the truth, and let us overcome it together. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0263par0127	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. Now, the second and final word against the proposal belongs to Aydın MP Abdurrahman Öz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0264par0131	Dear President, honorable lawmakers, I have taken a pledge against the Republican People's Party's proposal to open a parliamentary investigation into our province of Aydın. I salute the General Assembly. The reasons for air pollution in the province of Aydın and around it, the effects of geothermal plants on land, water and air pollution, have been asked to investigate cancer cases that have risen above the Turkish average. Dear friends, I would like to give you a brief piece of information about our Enlightenment, a place to live in this world, to grow old and to live in a long and healthy way, even though our province of Aydın may seem to be a classic expression, but it is a fact that everyone accepts. Again, in history, it is the most beautiful earth under the sky. Their soil is so fertile that 42 kinds of fruits and vegetables grow in a year. Our Aydın is in winter with camel wrestling and weddings; our Kusadas is in the city of Doveada; our town of Kuşada is in its castle; Zeus is in its village; Zeus is in its cave; Dilek Peninsula is in its national park; Karacasu is in its capital; Apollon is in its temple and tourism; Koçarlı is in our town; Kocharlı is in its cube; Kocharlı is a local expression; it is a pine nut; Yenipazar is in its town; Nazillis is in its town; Karacasu is in its village; Karacasu is in its eastern city and Africasu is in its ancient city; Aydın is in its capital; you know that its capital is in its capital, in its capital, in its capital, in its capital, in its capital, in its capital is in the city of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the province of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city, the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of Egypt, the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of Egypt, the city of the city of Egypt, the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of Egypt, the city of the city of the city of the city of In the end, our province of Aydın is famous for its figs and olives, and as I said above, 42 kinds of fruits and vegetables grow. In this framework, our number one product, which grows above its territory and is now brand value, is undoubtedly our fig. Our province covers 61.4 per cent of Turkey in the production of figs and 54.3 per cent of the world. The first Turkish product of the Aydın fig was registered in the European Union in the last month, and the first Turkish product registered in the European Union was made by the European Union. You know, last week, with Mr. President's presence, our Ministry of Industry gave us patent awards and awarded our brand of "Admin İnci" the 1st prize. In this framework, as members of Aydın, I would like to express my gratitude to Mr. President on behalf of Mr. Mehmet Erdem and Mr. Mustafa War. Again, I would like to express my gratitude to the administration of the Aydın Chamber of Commerce, my dear friend, and to the president of the Turkish Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges, Mr. Rifat Citadeloglu, who supports the registration process. Our Enlightenment is a province that is blessed under its soil as well as the blessing of the earth. When we enter the border of Aydın by İzmir, there are nine geothermal plants in our districts of İncirliova, Efeler, Köşk, Sultanhisar, Nazilli and Buharkent, starting from our district of Germencik, there are nine geothermal plants, and these geothermal plants produce 3 billion 194 million,520, 250 kilowattsaats per month. The need for electricity is a reality of our country, and the need will continue to increase day by day. We, the Enlightenrs, have lived with our figs for centuries, but from now on, we will live with both our figs and our geothermalis, and we will get used to it. The alleged air pollution in the parliamentary investigation is not a concrete claim. The reason for this is because of the winter air pollution in the province of Efeler, the CHP's Aydın Metropolitan Municipality, which has failed and has not produced services. Last week, when I went to my district of Kuyucak, there were oranges again, there were orange blossoms again, my friends. I want to express it. It is an injustice to Aydın to speak of air pollution, a province established in the City of Aydın in the Plains of Menderes, between the mountains of Aydın, where 17 counties are about 150km away, from the village of 544 to the neighborhood. I don't find it sincere that geothermal plants want to be investigated for their effects on soil, water and air pollution. The subject of geothermal is an artificial agenda that CHP's Aydın Metropolitan Municipality, which does not provide services in Aydın, has found to keep the agenda busy and cover its failure. The subject of geothermal has been on the agenda for nearly ten years. When we, the AK PARTY, shared with Aydın that the Aydın Metropolitan Municipality had left the hot water from the geothermal field in Sultanhisar district to the Malgaç Deresi, and therefore to the Menderes River, the Republican People's Party had never again discussed geothermal issues in Aydın. This genius shows that Republican People's Party members are not sincere. I'd like to point out that I'm not involved in any of the geothermal claims that I've explained. I also refuse to accept the claim that cancer cases are above the average of Turkey, which is expressed in Article 3 of the parliamentary research request. First of all, I would like to point out that, as I said at the beginning of my words, our Enlightenment is a place to live, to grow old and to live in a long and healthy way. Our Republican People's Party MP, who requested parliamentary research, you know, spoke to fig paintings here about a month ago. When I went out, the friends I offered figs to before said to me, "Abdur Rahman, did you feed us poisonous figs?" That was the greatest injustice that could have been done to our Enlightenment. Unfortunately, as a continuation of this injustice, this Parliament's request to investigate with the same logic today is as bad as everything else from Aydın, cancers everywhere in Aydın. The air is so dirty in Aydın, poison from Aydın. Our intellectuals don't deserve this, my dear friends. Therefore, I would like to express my objection to the request of Congress investigation. As this motion to investigate against our fig Aydın, I regret to inform you that we have to speak like this here today against our Aydın. I'd like to share data on cancer disorders. Between 2010-2015, I want to compare Turkey's average to the Aydın average. In 2010, the Aydin average was 21.1 per cent; Turkey average was 21.3. 20.6 Aydın averages in 2012, 21.1 averages in Turkey. In 2015, the average of Aydın is 18.8% in cancers; the average of Turkey is 20 per cent. Dear friends, this data shows that cancer is below average in Aydın Province. And while you're reviewing these data, I'd like you to consider both issues, and I'd like you to consider both facts. Dear friends, as you all know, since our Aydın is a place where many of our people want to retire, it is a place where there are more people with an elderly population and therefore a risk of cancer. This also has an effect: Our population is 1,5 million, our voter number is 750, which shows that our Aydın population is an elderly population. Again, our province of Aydın is a province of long-lived people. Therefore, compared to these two issues, it is clear that the lower average of Turkey is the habitable and ageable place of Aydın. Dear friends, I'd like to move on to the real agenda of Aydın. The real agenda that Aydın public talks about these days is corruption allegations at Aydın Metropolitan Municipality. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0265par0147	I can't give you time, I'm afraid I warned you, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0264par0148	Dear friends, the alleged corruption of the Aydın Water Administration...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0266par0149	Mr. President, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0264par0150	The claim of irregularity in the Aydin People's Bread...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0267par0151	Mr. President, we demand word, please invite the thing to sit down.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0264par0152	...the alleged irregularities of the Metropolitan Municipality, which operates the parking structures of the Admin...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0267par0153	Mr. President, we'd like word from the teaser.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0264par0154	...the judicial process of the fair city square...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0267par0155	Mr. President, we'd like word from the teaser.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0268par0156	I promise.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0267par0157	Please have him sit down on the stand.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0269par0158	...unregulated, untributable municipal services are the real problems of Aydın Metropolitan Municipality.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0268par0159	Yes, Mr. Oz, your time is complete. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0269par0161	Our Enlightenment will continue to be the most beautiful earth under the sky, despite the CHP Metropolitan Municipality from the beginning.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0270par0163	Mr. President, we want a word.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0271par0164	Yeah, we're inviting the chiefs on duty. Doesn't he have a supervisor?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0272par0165	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0273par0166	In this frame I give my greetings to all the friends of Aydın, who love Aydın, who strive for Aydın, who strive for him, who strive for him, and who strive for him, and all my friends of the Light, and all my fellow citizens, and salute our General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0272par0168	Mr. Akçay, let's not come to Manisa. Administrators...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0274par0169	Mr. President, our speaker has just mentioned the air pollution of Mr. Deniz Depboylı Aydın. But the speaker has responded to this and expressed that Aydın's air is not dirty.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0272par0170	No, Mr. Akchay, that's the point of the research motion. He said it wasn't like that. If I don't have Mr. Depboyli for a minute...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0274par0171	No, sir, that's teasing. Please, Mr. President, it's teasing. We follow the law and the time, and that is the way.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0272par0172	Well, I guess I see all the Admin MPs standing up. Now, then, let's make a decision: let's say it's considered, let's explore the crime scene, and let's decide that all lawmakers should be entertained in Aydın. Let's all see it there. Okay? How are we going to end this now?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0275par0173	He's already asked for a commission.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0274par0174	Give me one more minute, Mr. President, but from the stand, please, without teasing.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0272par0175	Mr. Depboy, let's start with you, two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0276par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, well, first of all, I don't want to give you a new pick-me-up. I'd like to call for all our friends to cooperate. I've mentioned air pollution in the light, it's true. Look, my house is in Nazilli. Once again, when I go to Nazilli, I am greeted with the smell of citrus, citrus flowers, jasmine. But my mother, my brothers, my relatives, lives in Aydýl, and when they get up in the morning, I wake up there and I'm afraid we smell that sulfur. It's fresh air, we can't breathe anymore. Some scientific research has been done. I believe these are inadequate, better research must be done. Again, it is also true that cancer cases are increasing. You may have found less than the Turkish average, but compared with the past, Aydın had less cancer in the past, now more. Look, this cancer growth -- I mentioned it -- is not just geothermal -- it's also pollution of Menderes, soil pollution, water pollution. Let's set up a research commission. Because this is not the problem of Aydın. As I said, it is also the problem of those who consume the products of Aydın. Again, our fig trees are not only affected by harmful gases but also by steam. It's the steam that hurts the fig the most, and geothermal energy constantly releases steam into the air, and because of the opening of wells, the tree is always cut down. Look, we have a problem here, and I'm calling for cooperation to solve this problem. Let's all submit a group motion, not only to Aydın, but to take the pollution of the Menderes basin from where Menderes was born, and put the geothermali in it, and let's finally get the research commission to do the necessary reviews. I say let our intellectuals breathe in peace, let our farmer breathe in peace, let those who consume those products breathe in peace, and let us do our duty here, and I salute each and every one of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0277par0187	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. Mr. Star, I promise you two minutes of teasing. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Please, let's not afford another tease. The next time you get bullied, you'll be really burdened, you'll have to welcome all of us to Aydýl.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0278par0192	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have just described the AKP MP Aydın. That's why we call it the research commission. In order to keep our grandfathers alive like that, we have prepared a motion to leave research to our children, to our grandchildren, to the grandchildren of the grandchildren; and in fact, these are friends. I mean, we want this research commission to be set up, so we can solve these problems in Aydın. Two: Congressman told us about our mayor. I'm sorry, but Turkey's most successful Mayor of the Metropolitan Mayor is Efe, I assure you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0279par0195	Why are you adding heels?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0278par0196	Because I'm taking Aydın to court, and I'm proud of Mr. Mayor of the Metropolitan. Right now, despite all obstacles, we're doing good work that hasn't been done in Turkey. Dear friends, look, there's something you don't know, I'm speaking to the Aydın MPs: Before you were a major city, before Special Administration closed, these geothermals were coming to Special Administration for $100-150 million. Do you know what you did after you crossed over to the big city? You didn't transfer that money to the Grand City, you took it to the Treasury Department. Who, normally, would take the money of which people and invest it in the Ministry of Finance? I mean, you guys blocked that 150 million investment. I say, come on, let's set up a research commission. As my dear deputy says, we'd like to leave it to our children, our grandchildren, the grandkids. I say we don't make three people rich.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0280par0200	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0281par0201	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0280par0202	Our Republican People's Party MP, Hüseyin Yıldız, has spoken in his speech.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0281par0203	Mr. Virtue, I'll give you my word on your position for a moment.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0280par0204	Don't be coy.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0281par0205	Here you go, sir. He didn't give a name. Let's turn on Mr. Erdem's microphone, one moment, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0282par0210	Mr. President, thank you. Of course, the culture of democracy of the Enlightenment is very rich. Our MP, who came from Tunceli, who has emigrated to Aydın, has embraced Aydın in a very beautiful way, thank you, God bless him.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0283par0213	Where did you come from?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0282par0214	At the same time, let me put it this way...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0284par0215	Why do you discriminate? Why do you discriminate? Does that language suit you?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0282par0216	If the Geothermal Act hadn't been passed in 2007...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0285par0217	Where did you come from?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0284par0218	I mean, what do you mean, he came from Tunceli and settled there? Oh, is that a word? Mr. President, this is a segregation speech, which we refuse to discuss.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0286par0220	One moment, Mr. Sky, complete.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0284par0221	We refuse to have this conversation. That's not true. Where's Tunceli from? So what? We reject this segregation, racist language. We refuse to have this conversation.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0287par0222	These plants have never been re-enacted under the laws of bath water before.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0284par0223	Is there a painting like this? It's a polarizing, segregating speech, and I condemn it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0287par0224	And because there was no reincarnation, it was doing much more harm to nature, to nature. In this regard, along with this law, the harm done to nature has been tried to remove its harm done to nature.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0284par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0288par0226	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0284par0227	Mr. President, the speaker that you promised, when it was not necessary, your friend is from a distinguished province of Turkey...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0289par0228	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0284par0229	...as if you were talking about migrating to the light.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0290par0230	Mr. Sky, you know he didn't mean anything by it. You didn't mean to...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0291par0231	We don't know, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0292par0232	Mr. President, he will correct you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0290par0233	Okay, he'll fix it. Come in, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0293par0235	Mr. President, please let me finish.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0290par0236	Okay, we know you didn't mean to, Mr. Sky. That's not possible.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0294par0237	Is Tunceli a bad province, Tunceli?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0293par0238	We want to remove Turkey from polarization, from discrimination. Everyone is one, 78 million people living in Turkey are one.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0294par0239	Isn't that a bad town, Tunceli? Why are you insulting Tunceli?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0295par0240	That's exactly what it is...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0293par0241	Wherever he is born, wherever he lives, it is wrong to discriminate against people.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0295par0242	Okay, Mr. Sky, let's open it. Your Grace, please.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0293par0244	If he's out of his league, please state him.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0295par0245	Okay, Mr. Sky, we all know you didn't mean it, everybody knows that. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0296par0247	Mr. President, we can't hear you, please let's have some peace.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0297par0249	Mr. President, our congressman here had just said in his speech: "Our grandfathers said so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and and so and so and so and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and I'd like to correct it again at this point -- let's not get it wrong. [[x]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0298par0252	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0299par0254	Mr. President, during my dear friend's speech, I'd like to speak of taunting you for expressing that my statements are not true.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0300par0255	Sir, it's been discussed.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0301par0256	That's right, sir, but that's what he said.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0300par0257	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0302par0258	Mr. Oz, let's finish it here if you like. I mean, we're gonna go into law now.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0303par0259	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0302par0260	Mr. Star, we're finishing, we're closing here. Today we are all Enlightend, and we say hello to all the Enlightenment from here.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0304par0262	We thank the land of Ephes Aydın.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0302par0266	I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0305par0267	You're all enlightened!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0302par0268	Thus, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the Law Bill and Proposals of the agenda and the Other Affairs From the Commission. We will resume our talks with the European Union's Integration Commission and Interior Commission Reports in the 1st place, as well as the Constitutional Commission's Commission's Commission on the Establishment of the Watch and Changes in Some Laws. The commission and the government are in place. In the past session, talks were completed on the whole of Law Bill 277, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. I now submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, in chapter one...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0306par0277	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0302par0278	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0306par0279	Mr. President, I have an appeal, may I present? Now, we've just received word that a live bomb has detonated itself in Bursa.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0302par0281	I'll give you a minute at your place. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0306par0285	Mr. President, with the news we just received and the news of the agency posted on social media, we've just heard of an explosion in Bursa. Information began to reach out that he was near and in front of the Great Mosque. In this matter that we don't know the degree of truth, I'd like the government to inform our House if there's any information available to them while Mr. Secretary is here.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0302par0286	Thank you, Mr. Sky. If the government finds out anything about this, I hope they share it with the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0306par0288	I wonder if the government has heard.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0307par0289	The government wouldn't listen.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0302par0293	Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first chapter covers the 1st to 5th article. On behalf of groups who want to speak on the first chapter, the first word for the nationalist Movement Party Group belongs to Bursa MP Kadir Koçdemir. Mr. Coachdemir, come in. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0308par0298	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding the draft of the Law on the Building of the Kolluk Watch Commission. At the beginning of my words, I salute your grand delegation. Again, at the beginning of my words, I wish that we would have the least of our lives in the attack at Bursa, which we have yet to reach, and that this attack would now be the reason for our state, the government to regain consciousness over such matters, and that this attack would be the last painful event that would have hurt us. We have information on the casualties. If this is true, I ask God's mercy for those who have lost their lives. The law we're negotiating is, you know, part of the process of visa exemption. For him, his substances pass through our General Assembly quickly, without too much attention. In fact, this law also means that it shows the way the ruling party views these processes and legislation. Because this law was first referred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 2010, which was held for six years. There's an interesting issue there, and the reason for the law says that there are no law enforcement forces in Turkey, no police, no serious recordings and analysis systems of security and security. The lack of this recording and analysis system does not allow the right policy on security, security, the right policy on the matters of the citizen's life safety, and the proper measure to be taken. If such a system does not exist, it is not possible to produce the right policies and make the correct diagnosis and take the correct measures. He did it in 2010. Did he bring a system like this from 2010 to this point in time? He didn't. This is a statement from the government itself that there is no right policy on security, that there is no right diagnosis, and that there are no right measures. In this law, his name is the Watch Commission, but he's not loyal to it, and we see that he's been applied to the control road and the audit section, along with some inspectors who have left the Ministry of Interior Property Board, who have gone further than surveillance. But this law also presents interesting clues to how we understand democratisation in the process of the European Union, how we understand modern state. You know, there are 72 conditions, and when the process started, 35 ▪ were fulfilled. We hope to meet all conditions by the end of May and obtain visa exemption at the end of June for citizens of the Republic of Turkey. But there's one thing the ruling party has missed here. This process had already begun, and if everything had continued as planned, as our government had made decisions, the Reception Agreement and visa exemption would have been implemented simultaneously in June 2017. We took this as a policy tool and separated visa exemption from acceptance and put the Reception Agreement into effect at the beginning of March, knowing that we had an opportunity for political guidance and the refugee issue of the European Union. Thus, indeed, there has been a serious decline in refugees who reached Greece from the Aegean Sea. But it turns out, in our minds, that we're in no hurry to send back 1 Syrian against every refugee we've taken as a return to Europe, and we're not thinking about its effects on its cargo to Turkey, because according to the latest information we've received, only 2 percent of the 325 returned refugees are from Syria, the remaining 323 are refugees from Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran and Iraq, and these are not located in the Agreement of Retribution, because we can only send the Syrians from here. By laying forward this agreement, we project 25 billion euros a year to perfect the borders of only four countries, only to Turkey's Turkish nation, to Turkey, to the Turkish people, until 2019, for the cost of 25 to 55 billion euros in projections and scenarios, according to the calculations of the World Economic Institute of the German Federal Republic. Those who come, of course, are our brothers, but we have to host these refugees, but I'm negotiating for Kayseri. I'm thinking of the national interests of the country. It's only for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey to make such an agreement. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey has approved this agreement. Warnings from the European Union countries in recent days that it may not be able to start a growing visa exemption, that even if visa exemption is started, 72 conditions -- the freedom of the press is coming at the beginning of them -- that if a setback is seen, visa exemption may be lifted or that if one of the member states claims that visa exemption has forced its capacity, the visa exemption could be terminated for the country. In fact, Turkey has also strengthened the opinion that these conditions will never happen, with its overreaction to the recent journalists, the photographs in the art exhibitions, the programs on television. Last time we were interrupted, we looked like a joke. I told you. I've got one minute left, and I'll finish by telling you: there's a big difference between a guy buying a car and what he was promised in the car. He complains, complains, but the sales rep at the end of the phone doesn't understand what he's saying, it's normal, it's normal, it's car, it's manufacturing. He says, "What's wrong with you? Tell me concretely." He says, "Sir, there's sound coming from everywhere but the horn of this car." The principle of secularism from our Constitution is expressed in meetings, where parliamentary immunity is determined without discussion in the General Assembly, such as the Constitution, and the laws that must be adopted in the process of harmonisation of the European Union are implemented very quickly without understanding what is happening here. Friends, by writing the law on paper with these things, we can't be a country that meets these conditions. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0309par0309	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0310par0310	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0309par0311	Here you go, Mr. Cakir. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0310par0315	Mr. President, thank you. Just a moment ago, the healthy information we have about the explosion that Mr. Gök had shared with CHP Group Vice President: 1 woman bomb blows herself up next to the Great Mosque, 2 minor injured. As a result -- thank God -- in spite of everything -- I say get well with the wounded, get well with our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0311par0318	We're just saying get well soon. Now, the second word on behalf of the group belongs to Bolu MP Tanju Özcan. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0312par0325	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express our thoughts on the first chapter of the Bill of the Law on the Building of the Law Watch Commission. Now, lawmakers, first of all, I wish we hadn't passed this law because the European Union asked us to. I wish we could've set up this commission earlier to prevent law enforcement from enjoying it. I'd like to point out that this is a flaw. Second of all, we've been constantly working on this, trying to be constructive, and we said, "We want this law to be functional; we want it to be properly implemented according to its purpose. We've also submitted motions for this, but unfortunately, the AKP Group and the President of the Commission didn't take any of the motions seriously. We wanted him to be independent of a commission executive body like this, which means law enforcement is, you know, operating under the executive body. So we wanted the commission to work as independent of the executive body as possible, which would oversee law enforcement, and we gave motions. Our motions have not been taken into consideration again, I'm afraid. My concern, lawmakers, is that about 20 years ago, the Human Rights Watch Commission was established, you know, and it operates in every province, but when the Human Rights Watch Commission was founded, it created a sensation in society. There really were applications to these human rights monitoring commissions, but then our citizen saw that these boards were dysfunctional, and those boards were set up only for illegal prosecution; in that sense, interest in this commission has been reduced, and so has interest. Hopefully, the law enforcement commission doesn't become such a commission; I hope it works according to its function. Congressmans, of course, I'd like to make a brief mention of something that we discussed here today, while we've already been promised. Mr. Group Vice President Levent Gök tells you that you are a lover of violence. When you say that you are a lover of violence, you act like a lover of violence. There have been a variety of objections. I had a really hard time understanding that. Guys, you need to sit down and question yourself. Do you really enjoy blows in this country? Are you happy to have a coup in this country? You think you're being politically abused? Think it over, if you want. Look, you said April 27th e-memory. On April 27th, you gave Yasar Buyukanit, who was supposed to have given you the e-magnity, the State Supreme Service Medal! What kind of contradiction is that? The man gives you a token - according to your description - what do you do? You reward him by giving him a medal. Is this a one-time thing? No, it's not.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0313par0333	It's given to all the chiefs of staff.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0312par0334	Now, wasn't the 1980 coup de grâce? Who did this coup? Kenan Universe. Well, that came out in the past. So it turns out that Mr. Ahmet Bahımaya, who you have appointed as Chairman of the Justice Commission, is the lawyer of Kenan Pasha the coupger.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0314par0335	Don't you ever get bored?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0312par0336	Look, one more thing, it's been talked about again today.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0315par0337	Mr. Ozcan, just a second...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0312par0338	My time...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0316par0339	He devoted his life to the blows...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0315par0340	We've invited you to stick to the subject according to the Civil Code 66, which is my obligation, which I've expressed before, please come to the point.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0312par0341	Okay, thank you, I was just getting to the point.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0316par0342	You stood on your feet with blows.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0312par0343	Guys, you've been doing a lot of victim literature on February 28th, haven't you? You described February 28 as a coup, and there was a lawsuit against it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0317par0344	CHP has also prevented a lawsuit.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0318par0345	February 28th is a coup, isn't it?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0312par0346	It's a coup, isn't it? And who was the attorney for Mr. Quickman, who was alleged to be one of the prime ministers of February 28th? Now, if I were to ask you, is one of the lawmakers already one of you? Would you have an answer for that? I'm waiting for an answer.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0318par0347	Don't be suspicious.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0312par0348	Who was the lawyer of Aggressive One? In the case of February 28th, is the person acting as a lawyer for a quick lawyer, or is he not a member of your nation? I'm waiting for an answer.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0318par0349	Don't be suspicious, tell me if you know.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0319par0350	Tell us, and we'll know!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0312par0351	If that's the case, you've added another contradiction. You give a medal to the minister, you represent the person who did the coup, you say on February 28th, we've been so victimized. You've been doing the victim's literature for 20 years, but on February 28th, he's hit us. I'm waiting for an answer, I'm waiting for an answer, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0320par0353	You give me an answer.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0321par0354	Who's that deputy, tell me your name.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0312par0355	If he doesn't, I'll tell him, Mr. Metiner, don't worry. Secondly...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0322par0357	Tell me, tell me, tell me your name.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0323par0358	Mr. Ozcan, please get to the point.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0312par0359	I've come to the point again, Mr. President. Congressmans, of course, for the past two days, Mr. President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0324par0361	There's no bread there.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0312par0362	...elected by you, elected by your vote, Mr. President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is discussing all of Turkey's unfortunate remarks. Is it true? There's one thing I don't understand here: there were talks made on behalf of your group, we don't agree with what the Speaker of Parliament said about secularism. After that, the Prime Minister said, "We don't agree, it's his opinion."
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0324par0363	Okay, what more do you want? What more do you want?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0325par0364	Do you mind if I don't?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0312par0365	Wait a minute, I'll keep going. Last time, even Mr. President left, I disagree, he said his own opinion. Now, if that's true -- if we're not talking about anything, we're talking about secularism, we're talking about the issue of the Constitution, we're talking about a religious constitution. If none of you are going to own it, then there's no political infrastructure left for the Speaker of Parliament; Mr. Speaker -- if you're sincere -- let him leave his post immediately.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0326par0367	For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0312par0368	Politically, it's the right thing to do. Friends, what kind of Constitutional Compromise Commission is the President of such a Parliament? This one's got a head like ISIS head.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0327par0370	Mr. Özcan...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0328par0371	Mr. President, what does that mean?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0329par0372	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0328par0373	Cut the mic, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0330par0374	Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0331par0375	Let's take secularism out of the Constitution and establish a religious constitution. Guys, about that...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0330par0377	Mr. Özcan, Mr. Özcan, I'm warning you, please apologize. We expect you to apologize for this.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0331par0378	Mr. President, if you'll allow me to complete my statement, it will be well understood.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0330par0379	I expect you to apologize.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0331par0380	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0330par0381	Mr. Ozcan, please apologize for this.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0331par0382	Please, I'll finish my words, and we'll talk if it's not enough.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0330par0384	Look, apologize for that. You can't accuse the Speaker like that.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0331par0385	Or, Congressman, are you trying to do this by saying these words of the Speaker of the House... [[The microphone was turned off by the president.]] ...one in Turkey...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0332par0388	You've been supporting terror your whole life! You're under all the problems!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0331par0389	So you're trying to show us death and persuade us to settle for malaria!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0333par0391	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one moment...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0332par0392	Shame on you! Apologize.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0333par0393	Now, I'm reading the Civil Code 66, first of all...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0332par0395	You're the ISIS head, you!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0334par0396	He's going to apologize, not like that!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0335par0397	There's no better donkey than you!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0334par0399	He's going to apologize!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0336par0400	Don't be ashamed, don't be ashamed, don't be ashamed! You're under all the terrorists, all the shit that's going on under you... shame on you!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0334par0401	Dirty! You can't always insult me here!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0337par0403	The CHP is behind all the coups!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0338par0404	Congressmans, please... I read the Civil Charter 66. The statement of the member of the Court can only be interrupted by the President to invite him to comply with the Civil Code and not to leave the subject. Despite the two invitations, it may be possible for the President to ask the General Assembly to refrain from speaking on the same subject in the same union. The General Assembly decides with an uninterviewed sign vote. Now, I propose to the General Assembly...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0339par0409	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0338par0410	I'm asking first, are you going to apologize or apologize?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0339par0411	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0340par0412	He's going to apologize, sorry!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0341par0413	Tell him he's sorry.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0342par0414	If you're going to apologize... apologize first.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0343par0415	Mr. President, let's take a look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0341par0416	No, don't turn it on, don't turn it on. He doesn't apologize, don't answer.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0344par0417	What's he gonna wish for? What will he wish for?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0345par0418	Mr. President, you can't do that with the preacher on the stand.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0346par0419	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0345par0420	Mr. President, you can't interrupt this procedure while the speaker is on the stand.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0347par0421	Look, there's a lot of harsher punishments, 67. There's 161. Mr. Sky, suit yourself.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0346par0422	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0347par0423	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0346par0424	Mr. President, let our speaker complete his time, we'll look at the transcripts, we'll do an evaluation together. Let him finish his speech, please.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0348par0425	He insulted people!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0349par0426	The things I have to fix...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0350par0427	Mr. Özcan, if you'd like to apologize, go ahead. Here, I'm open, apologize...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0351par0430	Mr. President, can you put this pressure on the MPs without having them sit down?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0352par0432	Mr. President, when I've finished my entire speech, consider if there's still such a need. There's no such thing... you don't know what I'm going to say...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0353par0433	No, he's going to apologize. You dirty bastard! You'll apologize first!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0354par0434	He's not leaving without an apology.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0355par0435	Everybody sit down first, everybody sit down. This can't be happening! First you're gonna sit him down! With this kind of pressure!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0356par0436	Congressmans, please... He'll apologize. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0357par0438	Sir, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0356par0439	He'll apologize.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0357par0440	You don't know what I'm gonna say, so please let me finish my speech, and then if we have to apologize, we'll see.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0356par0441	Go ahead, apologize. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] We'll do what's necessary, Mr. Lawmakers, please take your seats. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0358par0445	Now, Mr. Speaker, if he's actually expressed these conversations as his own opinion, then we need to discuss...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0359par0447	He's still talking!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0360par0448	Mr. President, would you stop bugging me?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0361par0449	Yeah, lawmakers, just a second...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0362par0450	Apologize, I'm sorry!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0363par0451	There's no need to drag it out. He can't call the Speaker the Head of Parliament, brother!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0364par0452	Apologize!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0365par0453	Then what does the Supreme Court Attorney do in this country? The duty of the Supreme Court's Attorney General was clearly arranged in Article 27 of the Supreme Court's Article (4). Is that right, fellas?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0366par0455	Whoa, whoa, sit down. Get back in your seat! Is that possible, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit02spe0367par0457	Congressmans, please... I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0367par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're continuing with the talks of Bill 277. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Cakir, please.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0368par0007	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, we're all people, we can make mistakes, but it's a virtue to return from the mistake we've made. The CHP speaker who was just speaking here in the entire speech of the oratorship, using a provocative, provocative language, has put our group under investigation, but it's not new, so we're passing through it. But when it comes to a word, a sentence, and the person he's using this sentence, there's no tolerance anymore because there's a intention here, there's even an open, optional sentence. The speaker says that he has made a grave insult to our Speaker by calling him the head of ISIS. This is not a pure language. This is a picture that exceeds the limits of political criticism. In that respect, we want the speaker to apologize. And to insult the President, the Chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the Chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the President of the Presidential Court of the Turkish Parliament, as the 161st Amendment was mentioned in the 161st Article (3) -- I read it in the face -- during the talks. We don't have to love the Speaker or anyone else, but we have to respect what the law dictates. That doesn't necessarily mean bowing down to him and banging him, but we have to respect each other's law in terms of protecting each other's law. In that regard, I demand the implementation of Article 161 of the Civil Code on the CHP's orator. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0369par0013	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0370par0015	Mr. President, the immunity of the bench and the innocence of the bench in the activities of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are one of the leading principles. We can never agree that a party will use the advantage of having a numerical majority to attack a traitor on the stand who has not yet finished his promise. Such a painting is a matter of excessive force that has just gone far beyond what Mr. Group Vice President has just expressed. Not to mention the Republican People's Party will leave the bench with a numerical majority demonstration.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0371par0016	You're still being a turn-on.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0370par0017	And it would only be reckless for the Republican People's Party to think that our friend would back down with the influence of a painting like this at a stage where perhaps if it weren't for this intervention, he would have had an opportunity to correct it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0372par0018	Bravo.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0370par0020	Everyone should know that while our friend is speaking on the stand, despite my interference, we refuse to let the AKP Group walk to the stand. Our friend has been interrupted, his word is not complete. The harsh criticism he says is certainly not to be judged in the sense that defines a terrorist organization, not that he means it. However, despite this statement, the AKP Group is still making this request, we, the Republican People's Party, demand the implementation of the 160th Article of the Interior Charter of the AKP Group, concerning all your friends who have invaded the Parliamentary platform.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0373par0021	Let's vote both.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0374par0022	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0375par0024	Thank you. Mr. President, I have carefully followed the speech of Mr. Tanju Özcan, who was just speaking on the stand, and I have read it over and over and over again from the transcripts. It's a normal criticism... it's a pretty severe criticism in the sentence... and it's their own appreciation, I don't know, as soon as the speaker agrees to this critical, severe criticism, whether he's guilty or not, he apologizes, I don't know. We've expressed that we should avoid such severe criticisms as possible in our previous conversations, and I don't think that these harsh criticisms are of any benefit to anyone. However, this heavy criticism is the same weight... for example, often spoken without taunting, with answers. This road has not been taken, but instead, it is far more dire than the severe criticism of a person who would walk to the stand with anger and hatred, in a manner of speaking out in a manner of speaking, which is unacceptable. This is the step of a lynching attempt. (CHP cheers) Now, each move has to be measured in behavior.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0376par0026	What an MHP mentality!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0377par0027	You got your applause, you got your applause!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0375par0028	Look, we've got friends who can't even stand it, who can't stand it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0378par0029	Let your group's deputy president tell you, your group's vice president. Don't interfere from there!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0379par0030	We don't need instructions from you! For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0378par0031	This is the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0380par0032	There have been strong criticisms against the Republican People's Party at the same time or later. Answers have been answered or not been answered, and I recommend that those reports be read again. When there are statements that go beyond political criticism -- Mr. Cakir has just expressed his views on this -- I'd like him to say a couple of words about walking to the stand. He didn't say that, which is absolutely impossible to approve of, and the walk to the bench was a heavy - criticism, insult, whatever - that changed his weight as well. It's not supposed to be about lynching the preacher. We need to use it this way, objectively, in cold blood.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0381par0033	What gives you the right to lynch Ismail Kahraman?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0380par0034	I'm not taking your word for it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0381par0035	You're not the type to take the fort anyway!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0380par0036	Mr. President, this is the way we're going to have to evaluate the situation before it gets any more tense.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0381par0037	Ismail Kahraman is not free to speak, is he?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0380par0038	You see, anger is sweeter than honey. There's a special effort to make the General Assembly nervous.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0381par0039	You started a lynching campaign!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0380par0040	While we, the National Movement Party, show the utmost sensitivity we can to get the laws out of here as soon as possible, I find that the ruling party members are not even close to that sensitivity, not far from it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Anyone who has any ideas will say it. That's my opinion. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0382par0044	Mr. Akçay, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0383par0045	You'll have unlimited freedom, and we won't be able to say a word!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0380par0046	You're babbling, that's all there is to it!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0382par0047	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0384par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're all politicians here, and we're expressing our political opinions here, and the thing we need to express freely is the Parliamentary platform, and we've said it over and over again. The opposition here does not tolerate the criticism of power, the opinion of power, for some reason. But what should be the criticism of opposition, I think, is the greatest endurance. We were even insulted here yesterday. So, speaking on the stand, I don't find it right for all the MPs here in Parliament to walk to the stand. And as we don't find it right, I think the approach is wrong because in democracies, it's free expression of people's thoughts.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0385par0051	Except Ismail Kahraman!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0384par0052	In politics, too, especially when opposition criticizes power, for some reason, it is not tolerated. But here we should all be able to express our own thoughts in a situation where we can criticize them. That's why I don't find the right approach to lawmakers walking to the bench in Parliament. So, friends, I think that all lawmakers in Parliament should be sensitive about this, once again, and it's our job to be sensitive about it, and it's our job to create an environment that allows us to express all our criticism, our thoughts freely here. Sadly, we are also faced with brute force or interruptions in intolerable thinking. Today, a few minutes ago, an MP in the CHP Group was interrupted in this way, and he wasn't even allowed to say what he was going to say afterwards, so it wasn't understood...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0385par0053	It looks good on you!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0384par0054	He wasn't even allowed to finish and understand what he was going to say. I want to make it clear once again that we shouldn't accept this situation.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0386par0056	Thank you. Members of parliament, the work bases of the General Assembly have been established by the executive provisions of our Constitution and the Civil Code, and by the practices established by Parliament. Of course you can, but you can't, you can't, you can't criticize, you can't. It's not just the Council of Parliament. As each member of parliament, I think we know that as each citizen and human being, we have to show maximum courtesy to each other. The 65th article of our Civil Code provides general order in the talks; the president's interruption shows an invitation to the Interior Charter, to the 66th article and to stay on the subject. The language is organised by the 67th article, and the noise and the fight have been made very clear in the 68th article and so on, how a working basis is being held here. And yet we've tried so far to get these elements out of practice, without warning, but you can appreciate that in this Parliament, if we're all in charge of representing in the name of the sovereign nation and in the name of the nation, we need to use a style, a language that suits the dignity of this nation. Neither rude language nor hurtful, nor walking to the bench; none of this is acceptable. In return, we all need to pay attention. The point is, when it comes to the issue: The 161st article of our Civil Code was the (3)th one...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0387par0063	You can't.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0386par0064	... (At the time of the talks, to insult the President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, the President of the Grand National Assembly, the President of the President of the Republic of Turkey.)
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0388par0065	There's no insult here, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0386par0066	..to speak or threaten them or curse the Republic of Turkey or its Constitution.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0389par0067	You refer to the founding fathers of the republic as a drunk.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0386par0068	Now, members of parliament, Mr. Tanju Özcan, a member of the Bolu Congress -- let's put it all aside -- about our Speaker of Parliament, the head of the President of Parliament is like the head of ISIS...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0390par0069	He's a constitutional criminal, he says we'll take away the secularism. Can't we do a review?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0386par0070	We will never, ever accept this as a severe criticism; it is not rude, severe criticism, it is insulting. Mr. Tanju Özcan, a member of the Bolu MP, has said in the previous session of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that he must be sentenced to temporary discharge from parliament because of the elements stated in Article 161 of the Civil Charter. Therefore, I propose that Mr. Tanju Özcan. In accordance with Article 163 of the Interior Charter, three sentences from parliament will be issued temporarily. [[Noises from CHP rows, knocking on row doors]] If Mr. Ozcan is going to make his plea, I'll give him five minutes to defend himself. If Mr. Ozcan or a friend of his is going to plead, please take the stand.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0391par0074	Mr. President, there's no mistake in the analogy.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0386par0075	If there's no defense...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0392par0076	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0386par0077	Here you go, Mr. Sky. Yes, Mr. Tanju will defend Mr. Levent Gök instead of Özcan.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0393par0079	It wasn't for the defense, it was a promise.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0386par0080	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0394par0081	Mr. President, I wanted a word about your attitude. We have a request. In your own opinion, you put our friend's evaluation into a box and considered it an insult. Our friend's word is a heavy political criticism in politics, and all politicians have to endure these harsh criticisms. If the Speaker is being bullied about this, his legal ways can also be seen.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0386par0083	That's another matter.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0394par0084	There's nothing wrong with that, but what does that say about insulting the vice president, the presidents? There is also blasphemy and defiance of constitutional order. That's exactly what the Speaker is doing, that's exactly what he's doing. Now, there's a clear lack of respect between the practice and our friend's rhetoric and the fact that the AKP Group is marching to the bench. Because of our friend's words, you speak of the AKP Group's need to implement 161 put-in with the group's deputy, but you ignore dozens of AKP people walking to the bench.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0395par0086	He didn't walk to the stand, so he walked to the front of the bench.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0394par0087	What about them? What about them? That's the problem.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0395par0088	No one walks to the stand, just say, "Don't punish me."
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0394par0089	Your duty is to protect the freedom of the bench, to protect the freedom of the platform. We shall not be able to find a way, nor shall we be able to find a way.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0396par0091	We can't get there by insulting him.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0394par0092	If you're trying to get results here with brute force...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0397par0093	We won't let him, no one will. We're getting the attention of all the groups.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0398par0095	You won't let me! He's hitting him, he's hitting him!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0399par0096	You won't let me, you won't say a word!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0400par0097	They came at you, they came at you, what else can they do?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0401par0098	...the Republican People's Party stands before everyone. But that's what you do. But that's what you do. Therefore, would you please make an assessment of our friends in the AKP Group, walking to the legislature on our friend with a pair of words?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0402par0100	They didn't walk to the bench, Mr. President, and they reacted in front of the tables, friends.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0401par0101	We have a request. Why are you looking one-sided?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0403par0102	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Members of parliament, Mr. Tanju Öczan..
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0404par0104	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0403par0105	...in accordance with Article 163 of the Civil Code, I hereby submit to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0404par0107	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0403par0108	All in favor...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0404par0109	Mr. President! Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0403par0110	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0404par0111	That's not possible, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0403par0112	Sustained. It has been decided that Mr. Tanju Özcan will be removed from the House in three joints.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0404par0115	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0403par0116	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0404par0117	Mr. President, we want promises, you don't promise!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit03spe0403par0118	I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0403par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're continuing with the talks of Bill 277. The Commission and the Government are here.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0405par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0403par0005	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0405par0006	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0403par0007	If you'd like, I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0405par0011	Please don't interrupt me, Mr. President. Mr. President, we didn't have any information about the consequences of your previous merger, because of the hum as our group, because before we shut it down, we had a request as the Republican People's Party Group that we couldn't even hear what you were saying. During our friend's speech, we've requested processing of AKP MPs walking to the bench. I don't know what you guys were doing in the hum, so you just hung up. Mr. President, for the past two days, Turkey has almost ignored the founding values of Turkey, what the Speaker of Parliament said at the conference under which he was appointed Speaker of Parliament. An irresponsible statement from the Speaker of Parliament in a position of responsibility has confused Turkey. Not only Turkey, but all the foreign media following Turkey are broadcasting on the issue and commenting on the ideological head of the Speaker of Parliament. In politics, there are always tough criticisms, and every one of them has to be patient with those harsh criticisms. You didn't even let our friend's promise be fulfilled. If you read the House transcripts, you might be able to see that what our friend said means something other than what he means. You couldn't even tolerate it because your group performed a rude show of strength, violating the bench and the chair, the most sacred place of this Assembly, to invade and attack our friend by occupying the bench. You ignored it. You didn't grant our request. We don't really know what kind of process you just did, because of the hum. Mr. President, I've got the House transcripts, I've got them. From the AKP Group, there are severe insults that match exactly the actions you described to our friend and our Parliamentary group and our President. You've ignored them. With your present attitude, you have lost the principle of neutrality by your attitude in closing the previous merger. You've ignored such a painting, such as the violation of the bench immunity, the violence, the pressure, the judgment, and the efforts to remove the speaker from the stand. As the Republican People's Party Group, we can't possibly accept this. It is clear that our friend's words mean nothing more than a severe criticism. If you want me to read from the transcripts, I'll read to you what our friends from the AKP Group say to us and to the clerk, and everyone here will be embarrassed. Therefore, I would like to rephrase to you that that process you did was not heard because of the hum. If you've made any decisions, we're not aware of them, we don't know what decision you've made, because you immediately closed the session. Because of the howling, none of this was heard in the painting of who put their hands on what or what you wanted. If you have initiated an operation against our friend, the Republican People's Party, as requested by the AKP Group, we strongly deny it. In such a picture, we expect your president to make a statement immediately in response to this attitude that would disrupt the Parliament's working order. Please explain this if you have expressed something to the General Assembly in a manner that only the AKP Group has requested, and you have taken a vote before you have met the Republican People's Party Group's request. And after that, I would like you to explain to me why you did not make a transaction regarding the Republican People's Party's request. I reserve my other right to speak after that.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0406par0016	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0407par0017	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0406par0018	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0407par0020	Mr. President, before the lunch break, before the vote, I asked you to ignore it, and you didn't, and you started the vote between the noise, and then you paused. I mean, why did you ignore it, Mr. President? I want to make a promise that I'm either going to stand up, or I'm going to make a statement about my position. It's not the way to make promises, so it's the way to make promises. I want you to make a statement about this. And I regret to inform you that when I examined these discussions, the transcripts, the Gafas, you certainly did not act objectively and, unfortunately, you probably contributed to the triggering of the incident in this way. Because when the preacher was speaking on the stand, you immediately asked him to apologize. Of course, of course you're going to give him a warning, you're going to wish him back, but we know you didn't give those warnings to the ruling party MPs. First of all, your neutrality, your calm, will prevent things from getting any bigger. Third, Vice President of the Justice and Development Party Group Mr. Cakir did not speak in a single sentence about walking to the bench. I find it extremely compelling, and I don't want to think of it as an acceptable attitude to walk to the stand, but I'm warning them about that, too. Do you, as vice president of the group, have nothing to say about walking to the stand? Otherwise, when we evaluate the whole event in all its dimensions, the disastrous picture is that the ruling party is bullying the Turkish Grand National Assembly based on its majority. Which is impossible to accept. I mean, if this is the result of a harsh criticism, or a word that can't be approved, or a severe criticism, some of which are considered insulting by some, it would be a far more severe response than the cause of these actions -- like a major case of apology. I specifically want these evaluated by your objective, cold-blooded presidency and the Justice and Development Party Group. I've touched on these three issues, but I'd especially like you to be clear about this promise, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0408par0025	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0409par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, we've said it before, and I need to say it again: when we say our words on the stand in this Parliament, we can, of course, take our criticisms in accordance with the Civil Charter, and, of course, the different thinkers can stand up and ask for a say and answer, but what we've been going through today was the opposite. It is not acceptable for lawmakers in the AKP Group to stand up and move towards the bench before they finish their speech, before they finish their promise. There are also questions as to whether violence could have been applied if CHP MPs hadn't been in front of it. We've been over this before. We'd like you to show that attitude again yesterday. Yesterday, the AKP deputy chief of the group expressed a more severe statement to our member of parliament, which was actually an insult, but there was a situation you didn't even allow us to talk about. Mr. President, before you -- again -- announced your decision, we stood up as group vice presidents and demanded a word. There was a big hum, and without listening to our demands or listening to our thoughts, you made a decision directly within that hum. So, when we put it all out there, Mr. President, who ran the House, I think you need to apply a more careful, more equitable understanding of management based on the principle of neutrality, because there was violence on the stand, or there was violence on the job, even if it wasn't physical violence. Maybe we can express it as verbal violence. Although this has happened, it is never acceptable for a congressman to be punished for expressing only his opinion of many MPs on the stand. I told you, again, if we're not going to express our own thoughts, opinions, criticism on this stand, where are we going to express it? We need to think this through one more time. But again, a sense of fair governance needs to be established. Because we've seen a lot more of what the AKP group deputy said today. I would like to say that a more just and more democratic government must take place, and I would like to say once again that we do not accept this practice. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0410par0036	Thank you. Mr. Cakir...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0411par0039	Mr. President, thank you. This is Parliament. Parliament is the place spoken as a result. Any subject, any idea should be dismissed from this bench. In fact, not the classic ideas that we know of, but the most irregular ideas should be expressed here. Whether we agree with these contrary thoughts or not, it doesn't change because this is the seat of the People's Assembly. As a matter of fact, everyone from this platform, every member of this group, has been talking to each other through very severe criticisms from this time until now, from a long time ago. In the same way, we've had a lot of hard criticism from our group. We may not be happy about this, but we have to put up with it. We may not like it, but we have to internalize it, tolerate it. But insult is certainly not something that can be entered into, at this point, in this parallel, in this frame, it's not something that can be evaluated. And that is what is happening here today. So much so that we've had a long negotiation with the precious group of vice presidents to get in the back. The only thing we said was: "This severe insult to our Parliamentary President has crossed the line, "let the CHP say an apology, and there is no big deal." And that's what the long-term negotiation was really about in the back. But after I was urged not to apologize, I, as the group's vice president, and, of course, I made a request in accordance with the Civil Code. Our goal is definitely and definitely to eat grapes, not to beat up the farmer.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0412par0041	What about the attackers?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0411par0042	The fourth statement of Article 163 of the Civil Code still states that when you apologize and apologize, this temporary suspension sentence will be of no value. Because that's what we wanted in the bidet, and that's what we wanted in the end. So it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be, it can't be. If the preacher hadn't used such a sentence, we wouldn't have had such a request.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0413par0043	What's wrong with that, Mr. Cakir?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0414par0044	Yeah, we'll use that. I'll be using it in a little while. What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0411par0045	I think I've made my position quite clear. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0415par0047	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0416par0048	Mr. President still does not express his opinion on walking to the stand, Mr. Cakir, his reaction.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0411par0049	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0416par0050	I invite you to express your opinion on this matter.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0411par0051	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0417par0052	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0411par0053	Mr. President, never and never, Mr. Deputy Director of the MHP Group...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0418par0054	Are you doing a forum, Mr. President? Is this the Forum or the House? That's the way it is in the back, isn't it?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0411par0055	Mr. President, if you'll open it, I'll finish it. I'm completing my sentence, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0419par0056	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0411par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. Not because Mr. MHP Group Vice President Akchay called it, because I expressed my views to Akçay in the back, but when I spoke to him here just now, as a matter of fact, I only expressed it because we were locked in this case. Neither of you nor any of our friends can approve of the walking to the stand here, nor should he, because the immunity of the bench is essential.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0420par0060	So, what did you do, Mr. Cakir, what did you do about them? Everyone walked to the stand! A word our friend says, the stick you say, the fist.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0411par0061	But I'd like to remind Mr. Akçay of what he just said in his speech: he's competent in literature, he has a ligati, I recommend the Turkish Language Association's ligament, he'll look at it and see what it is when he sees it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0421par0063	Now, Mr. President, let me describe the second. He's recommending a plea or something, sir. Please, promise me you'll let us answer in the language.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0064	Members of parliament, our members of the group, now, of course, it is not possible to meet any of these things, to acknowledge the events that are happening here, to accept both the bad word and the movement to the stand.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0423par0065	What did you do about it, Mayor?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0066	We all have to pay attention to that.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0423par0068	Mr. President, what did you do about walking to the stand?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0069	Wait a second... let's finish... look, I listened to you, that's all. Wait a second...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0423par0070	I've got a demand, there's a demand for a whole group. What did you do about that demand?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0072	Wait a second... Let's each take care of our own group first. First of all, Mr. Akchay, since you specifically asked me, I promised every four groups of vice presidents before I made this decision, and I didn't cut it very long. Other than that, it wasn't me who made the decision, I made an offer, I listened to the General Assembly making the decision, and I listened to all the members of the group. Then, before I offered it to the General Assembly, I invited Mr. Tanju Ozcan (Mr. Tanju) for the defence; he was absent; and Levent spoke instead. Then I applied the procedure. And then you stood up, and I didn't realize it at the time, and then I saw you after the decision, and I said, "Here you are, Mr. Akçay. In fact, I gave you my word. You know, I can't talk right now. I'm taking a break. At first, I've already separated all the members of the group, and you all know that in my exercise so far, I've tried to promise the members of the group, certainly, as possible; I haven't cut it, I've tried not to cut it. I gave it to him the same way today. You stated that you were standing on your last stand. After I explained the verdict, I saw for sure and told you to come again. And now that you said it was probably a noisy environment, I'm taking a break from it. Secondly, Mr. Tanju, we've asked a lot in the back about Özcan. When you are on the stand, correct your words. Twice, I have invited you to return to the subject according to the Civil Code 66. Then, on that promise, please, apologize, correct your words. He's gone, too. After we paused during that altercation, we discussed quite a bit in the back with you, Mr. Sky. I mean, it's a virtue to apologize. We can make mistakes, it can be wrong, it can be misunderstood...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0424par0077	What's there to apologize for, sir?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0078	Velev, you say it wasn't wrong, it could have been misunderstood. If it's misunderstood, I'm sorry. It doesn't make anyone smaller.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0424par0079	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0080	Each of us has to use such a virtue separately. Without such an apology, we waited about 45 minutes in the back, and when we didn't, in the end, I submitted such an offer to the General Assembly's approval, a decision like this came up.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0424par0081	Mr. President, what offer did you make? Mr. President, look, you're just saying in your speech that I didn't notice Mr. Akçay. We didn't realize what you were doing. Now, the 149th Amendment, the meaning of the vote, is specified. I have a request, as well as a request from the AKP deputy leader. According to the Civil Charter 149, the President can briefly state the meaning of the votes before the vote.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0083	Yes, we did.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0424par0084	What did you do about it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0085	I explained it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0424par0086	So did you or did you not consider our request as Republican People's Party Group?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0087	I've listened to you, all of you, all of you, to the vice presidents of the group. In the end, I submitted the motion to disembark from Parliament to the General Assembly's approval, and the General Assembly agreed.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0424par0088	We didn't hear that.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0089	What can we do about it? What do you have to offer?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0424par0090	We didn't hear that, Mr. President. What about my offer?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0092	What offer, what offer?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0424par0093	Mr. President, aren't you following the... There are dozens of AKP MPs walking to the bench.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0094	Mr. Sky, we all testify that these events that we don't want happen here from time to time -- whether we want them to or not -- happen here.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0424par0095	Sir, what did you do about my request? That's what I'm asking.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0096	Who did you ask about the person? And what I see is plus, I didn't see it in the following reports.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0424par0097	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0098	I didn't hear any of those words either...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0424par0099	Okay, very good.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0100	And if I do, if...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0424par0101	Mr. President, that's exactly what I'm pointing out.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0102	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0424par0103	We didn't hear what you guys were doing. We don't know what process you've considered, but the AKP Group has raised their hand.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0104	How do you not know?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0424par0105	We didn't hear what you were doing, just as you didn't hear our proposal.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0106	Look at the transcripts, you'll see, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0424par0107	Please, then, take a break, let's look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit04spe0422par0108	Okay, let's see. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit05spe0422par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're continuing with the talks of Bill 277. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0422par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Congressmans, we've just looked at the transcripts again. There, of course, were some statements that none of us could approve of during that mutual taunting. In relation to this, I'll make a promise to our two dear friends first for their testimony. Mr. Dragon's Open, please.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0425par0005	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, since I understand the statement of the client in a different way, which is insulting, I have made a statement, again, which, as I understand it, is not appropriate for me and my moral values to return to him. For that, I apologize to our great Council.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0422par0007	Thank you. Mr. Axe...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0426par0010	Mr. President, I apologize to all my fellow congressmen, especially to the high council, especially to all of my fellow MPs, who are not my own when we look at the reports, especially after the provocative words of the speaker. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0422par0013	Thank you. Congressmans, from time to time, we may be in a series of behaviors that offend each other without being aware of, in certain environments. We don't want that to happen; we don't want bad words to be used, and we don't want hurtful and rude words to be used, and there's absolutely no acceptable, acceptable way of making a move on the stand, or in the manner of acting, or in the way that can interfere with the position on the stand. We can make mistakes, we can do wrong; we can not do these wrongs as much as possible; we can not repeat them, but when we realize what we've done wrong, I think it's our duty as a human being and as a congressman, to apologize to each other, to forgive each other, to embrace each other. I thank you all for this sensitivity. We'll take another look at all of the records here, and we'll take them in comparison, but I beg you, my dear brothers, my dear lawmakers, the Civil Code, they have executive provisions, they have disciplinary provisions, we don't want to, we don't want, we don't want, we don't want, we don't have to, but don't have to. The Vice President and the Presidential Court here, again, I'm making a particular suggestion that the esteemed members of the General Assembly here do not have to follow these rules, and without using a rude and hurtful language again... the 65, 66, 67, the order of the General Assembly, the regulations... these are prohibited provisions. I want you to pay attention to these and not interfere with the witness on the stand, and I want to thank you again for your sensitivity with the request that the witness on the stand use a clean language. We'll resume the talks of Bill 277. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on the first chapter, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Osman Baydemir will speak. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0427par0026	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, once again on behalf of my group, I salute you with respect. To tell you the truth, I've been waiting almost five hours for this ten-minute vision of mine to make my speech. We've all witnessed and lived together an unsolicited discussion, an unsolicited lack of courtesy, and an unsolicited painting. However, I'd like to point out that whatever the problem is, it can be passed on to democracy culture, consultation, negotiation. After this five-hour wait, let's try to understand from this discussion how important it is to internalize democracy and democracy, that the problem has been overcome, that the test has not been allowed to break.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0422par0028	Mr. Baydemir, just a moment. Congressmans, please, there's a buzzing in the hall, let's stop humming.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0427par0030	It's a five-hour process, and it's a proof that there's a way and a way to deal with the country's major issues and the country's great tribulations with that feeling, that there's no other way out of dialogue, that there's no other way out of consultation, that there's no way out, that there's no way out, that there's no way out, that there's no way out, that there's no way out, that there's five hours of progress, and that's what we's going through. While you're at it, while you're at it, speaking of interfering with the matter, lawmakers, come and withdraw this bill from the government. Let the government withdraw this bill so that it can come before the General Assembly in accordance with its original bill. The intention of this bill, in its essence, is that the expectation of this bill is so that the law does not violate a human rights violation; it is a bill in which the law does not go outside the framework of the law when the law does its duty, and therefore violates it. But it's not a bill capable of preventing a breach, because the commission itself is the senior commanders of the armada. Mr. Secretary, honorable lawmakers, if the administration, the Ministry of Interior or the Prime Minister, wants to establish an internal control mechanism, it's very easy; this board can be formed with a Prime Minister general or a relevant ministry general. Why does the government turn a job that has to be done in a general order into a law? Because I'm very clear here, there's been a fraud against a law. The main expectation is that the Venice Criters, the United Nations, and the European Convention on Human Rights, which is also part of our internal law, and the European Court of Human Rights, which is binding as well as the court of Human Rights, are that the law is expected to be opened to an external control. Just yesterday, the Venice Commission held a meeting with all the political parties whose group was in Parliament, and the main focus of the discussion was an interview, a field study, to determine whether or not there was law in operations in Kurdish provinces. This report will be announced the day after tomorrow. Again, this is the government spokesman or those in the position of representation of this state. I don't know this report. If you don't recognize these reports, then what are you doing in these mechanisms, where are you? So instead of wasting your time, instead of wasting your time, let's take another look at your spirit, your mouth, your heart. First of all, we need the purpose of the bill as a whole so that we can talk about external control, the scope of the design, and the board that will be set up with the bill, to be replaced by z. This should qualify as the representatives of the relevant ministries, as well as the academics of the academics, professors of the academics, professors of the academics who are experts in this area, such as the Human Rights Association, the Human Rights Foundation, the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey, the Amnesty International Representative of Turkey, the Association of the Turkish Bar Association of Bars, the Association of Women, and the spirit of international agreements that we are also in need of, but also the community. If the bill is adopted in this manner, no doubt my group will vote against all of its materials, but I'm clear: from the period of the draft of the bill to the phase of its arrival in Parliament, a single proposal of opposition has not been taken into consideration in any commission. So this will be a law of some sort, and only the ruling group. Law enforcement should be an activity that belongs to Parliament itself. If the majority party brings all the laws from its own need, its own perspective, and its own window -- sorry -- it's not called democracy, it's not democracy; it's called -- I've said it yesterday -- it's a one-party regime, and in the one-party regime, I assure you, we don't have a chance to respond to society's needs. That is for him the meeting in the common ground, and for him there is no conjecture. I believe that all lawmakers here don't want anyone, at least anyone, to have a law against them. So, if we don't want an illegality to happen, we need to eliminate the fact that the ground of unlawfulness is ours, which, above all, begins with the mentality, and when we look at the areas of violations in Turkey, we see that the mentality is, in a sense, a system problem rather than the unique behavior of an officer who belongs to the law enforcement force alone. It's such a big system issue that I think legal regulations are coming in today that the ruling party MPs are going to be victims tomorrow. Even now, 15 of the national television and local television channels broadcasting in Turkey at this moment, at this time, are already being shut down. Almost 30 channels have been blocked so far, 15 are on their way. To a dark regime, to a dark process, this society is being taken one step at a time. I mean, the existence floor, the presence floor of all of us, the branch that we're all on is being cut off by a saw, and I assure you, everyone will remain under it. Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, while we're talking about democracy and we're sort of connected to dessert, I'd like to express my opinion, my opinion, about the area of the problem we've been having for five hours. Mr. President, if there was a procedure in the Civil Code that required discipline and required voting, why didn't you do it yesterday about Mr. Deputy Director of the Group? Because, Mr. Group, what the Vice President had spent on us, he himself had exceeded the freedom of thought. Mr. President, democracy needs everyone, human rights needs everyone, and courtesy needs everyone, because courtesy deserves kindness, courtesy doesn't deserve kindness, believe me. For him, if we expect respect, first of all, we must respect our self-respect. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0428par0041	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir. The first word for the individuals on the first chapter is from Cemil Jamal. Here you go, Mr. Yaman. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0429par0046	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the establishment of the Kolluk Watch Commission and on the first chapter of the Bill of Law on Changes in Some Laws. I hereby salute you and yours in person, our beloved nation. As we all agree, the government's priority is to ensure the safety of the country and the peace of the citizens. This is being carried out by law enforcement forces appointed by the state in our country, as in all countries around the world. The law enforcement force performs a very important task to ensure peace and trust. Due to the circumstances during his use of authority, our law enforcement forces are subject to more complaints than other public officials. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have increased measures against torture and abuse crimes starting with the European Union integration process and continuing with legal changes. I'd like to say with great happiness that with the bill we're talking about today, we'll be able to sign a new arrangement based on the awareness of equal citizenship, strengthened with love and tolerance, to improve the quality of life. What do these arrangements bring? The public's confidence in the government will grow with the law enforcement complaint system. Because of its transparency, our law enforcement forces, who are sometimes exposed to slander by propaganda, will be spared prosecution. The registration and investigation system will bring the current legal infrastructure to European Union standards. Co-ordinating between the General Command, Security Directorate and Coast Guard Command will be tied to the standards. The current mechanisms that allow the examination, monitoring, and conclusion of complaints will be more effective and faster. The central registration system will create institutional memory and will provide unity through these applications. This system will register complaints made anywhere in Turkey and will immediately be monitored by the centre. You know, there are allegations that law enforcement -- in carrying out their duties -- sometimes abuse of duty, neglect of duty, neglect of duty. Investigating the investigations of these alleged allegations has not been very tidy so far. With this law, it will be easier to follow with this system of punishments if the allegations do or do not reflect the truth. The Office of the Undersecretary of the Ministry of the Interior for the evaluation of the violations of these complaints is scheduled to be established by the Kollik Watch Commission. The issues that will be discussed here will cover the work and procedures carried out by law enforcement and will be excluded from the military duties of staff in the General Command and Coast Guard Command. As victims or legal representatives of law enforcement may complain of unlawful acts committed by law enforcement, it will be possible for the authorities to file a complaint against the authorities, including the second degree of blood and relatives of the victims. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, the EC PARTY, which came to power in November 2002, have made serious progress in almost everything from economy to education, health to justice. These steps have been supported and appreciated by almost all of the public. In order for our citizens to feel secure and peaceful, we also care about basic rights and freedoms. With the bill of law on the establishment of the Watch Commission and the amendment to some laws that I share with you, we will have raised our position of service one step further, and I believe it from the bottom of my heart. On this occasion, we celebrate our champion, Kopelispor, and all of our teams who are champions, and wish this law to be good for our beloved nation, and I salute you and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0430par0056	Come to a game, Cemil, I've never seen you in a game!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0431par0057	Thank you, Mr. Yaman. Second and final speaker on behalf of the individuals, Bursa MP Kadir Koçdemir. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0432par0061	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, as member of the National Movement Party Group, I have made a personal pledge. At the beginning of my words, I salute you all. We're at a time when we've broken our normal working order, and maybe because of this overload, the nerves are often tensed and we don't want to. What are we doing this for? We're doing this to develop some changes to obtain the European Union's visa exemption. But when we look at history, it seems that if we don't do something right, if we throw it aside, we'll eventually have to divide the time we have to give it to him, along with a few times the amount of time we have to do it again. In previous laws, we see that the laws that we spend without much discussion, without speaking, come back to us three or five months later with proposals for change. In that sense, what the English say in another concept applies especially to legislation. They say: "I am not rich enough to take the cheap. " We do not have so much time to rush into life, we do not have the luxury to make mistakes. In that sense, if we had planned these laws in time, as I said before, we wouldn't have had to bring them here in 2016, not knowing what it says, by extending the process that we started in 2010 until the middle of the night. It's law enforcement, but it's not law enforcement, it's administrative procedures for law enforcement, it's disciplinary procedures. This law brings nothing further to the bureaucratic legislation regarding the control of the current branch in Turkey, but it will only help to register, perhaps to publish statistics. But we also see that the Parliamentary Interior Commission has been neglected to report them. If we put that aside and actually take the time that we deserve to do everything, if we do the legislature, we'll be able to do less wrong and get more distance. I wish, however, that this law is not only a means of exposing mistakes and complaints against themselves, but also the status of our security forces in order to improve their capacity and capacity.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0433par0067	Thank you. Now, members of lawmakers, we have MPs entering the system; we're going to do the QA. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0434par0070	Yes, now, a report on 2015 has been published, and the Ankara massacre, where 102 people have died, has emerged as the largest massacre in the world. And it's been two hundred days, and there's been no action on those responsible for this Ankara massacre because they're covered in immunity. The deputy chief of police, who took the intel and hid it, didn't give it to the relevant locations, unfortunately, was never removed from the immunity armor; the Home Secretary and the Governor did not allow it. Now, we are the eighth place in the world in the matter of massacres; last year, in 2015, we were raised to the eighth place in the world. A total of 1,086 people were killed or injured. The rocket hits the church every day. Another 14 - year - old boy died today, and 18 people died in total because of the rockets that fell into the church. So the number of people who died from the explosion in 2015 increased 77 times over the previous year. I mean, what do our law enforcement officers do at a time when such massive massacres are growing?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0435par0073	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0436par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you went to Şanlıurfa Province. In the province of Şanlıurfa, there are constant blackouts between eight and 12 hours a day. And due to the blackout of electricity, the products of our citizens who deal in irrigation agriculture don't grow and burn in this heat. For that reason, they will enter an economic debacle. In this way, you're going to be involuntaryly aiding terrorist organizations, and you're going to actually lead them to crime. For this reason, when will these power cuts of Şanlıurfa, Mardin, Diyarbakır? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0437par0077	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0438par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Energy Minister has put the final point on the cutting of electricity used in agricultural production: (Otherwise, if 20% of the debt is paid in advance, a letter of collateral will be received from the bank or 2 guarantors, the debt will be divided into 36 taxis and water will be given to the fields. Mr. Secretary, your mindset that drove the farmer into debt, he wants the farmer to bring water from almost forty streams to produce. I wonder when he's going to protect the thieves, the corrupters, the Turkish farmer, who's creating your mentality to protect child abusers.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0439par0081	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0440par0082	Thank you, Mayor. My question is to the Minister of Transport: Despite repeated warnings, despite the press conference and the fact that we've been talking here on the council bench -- the phones we've received today and a few days ago -- there still hasn't been a drop in traffic insurance for the movers and the owners of the company. The mover's condition is getting harder and harder and harder to get to the point where he's going to sell his vehicles. I demand immediate removal of the 10 per cent SGO bonus in traffic insurance, at least a 10 per cent reduction. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0441par0085	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0442par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it has been said that the pond will be built for nearly eight years, although Niğde could have water resources in the village of Himmedli and Bor Åun Halaç, and these ponds have not been made so far. There's a heavy need for water in the area. Is there going to be a pond in Happy and Halaç? Also, there is trouble and trouble in the Great Orders Pond. I've offered it to you before, how far is the study of the Darlet Pond? By the way, what are the studies on the drinking water problem in the Pilot, and on the drinking water problem in our Hadjibeyli village? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0443par0091	Again, Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0444par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, our Düzce province has a Hecinler position. Düzce Municipality, all of its filthy city trash is poured out into Hecinler position, and the dirty sewer waters are also poured out into Melen Tea, and the Melen Tea water is given to İstanbul. As you can appreciate, water gets dirty here and the environment gets dirty. When will you stop the pollution of this Melen Tea? And at the same time, do you intend to compensate for the victimization of a citizen in the position of Hecinler?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0443par0094	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0445par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to tell the Minister of Health about a major problem in our region. Our Giresunite brother, Bayram Güngör, who has two children with epilepsy, can't get his children treated. Because epilepsy patients need to be treated in child neurology, but there is no state hospital in Giresun, Tripoli, Rize, and the Army, and there is only one neuroscientist in the Army who looks after patients over 1 year old. They can't even respond to the applications that their sick parents make. In these four counties, where millions of people live, how do you assess the failure to assign child neuroscientists to public hospitals? We expect this problem to be resolved as soon as possible in the treatments of our most sacred beings, our children's diseases. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0446par0098	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0447par0099	Today, unfortunately, we had a massacre in Bursa, where a live bomb injured many of our citizens. The American consulate warned its citizens in the morning. Why does the Ministry of Interior and Intelligence of the Republic of Turkey not feel the need to warn the citizens of the Republic of Turkey or keep this information to itself? Are you planning on doing a procedure on the authorities? A warning had been issued earlier in the taxi massacre, and the German consulate and the American consulate had warned again. Is there anything missing from that? Are you planning on doing a procedure on that?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0446par0100	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0448par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, one of the major problems of the Black Sea is the problem with the forest's property disputes. Unfortunately, although citizens have the deed in hand, during the course of time, if a forest field has been detected or found with a bush like a wig on it, the forest has filed an appeal and registration suit for the cadastro detection and is taking the citizen's deed from him in a sense, especially in the Black Sea region. 20. In the Law Office, cases related to this also lead to a negative outcome in the appeal investigation. How many cases are there in the Black Sea about this conflict between the forest and the citizen? Do you intend to make a legal arrangement for this, Mr. Secretary? Do you intend to do a study in the Black Sea region in particular to prevent these serious victims? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0449par0104	Thank you. I now promise Mr. Veysel Eroglu, Minister of Forest and Water Affairs to answer the questions. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0450par0107	Mr. President, I give my regards to the most valued lawmakers. Sir, of course, the incident in front of the Ankara Train Station is being carried out at the moment, especially by the Ministry of Interior and the President of the Inspection Board, some of whom have been suspended, but the investigations are still going on in a very detailed way. Some friends have been suspended from the office of Ankara County Police Director Kadri Kartal, Security Branch Director Adem Arslanoğlu and Intelligence Branch Director Jahangir Ulusoy, but more work is going on.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0451par0109	Trials were not allowed.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0450par0110	We'll give you a very detailed answer in writing. About Şanlıurfa, sir, we went to Şanlıurfa yesterday as three ministers. We listened separately to all the citizens, farmers, agricultural chambers, public institutions and organizations, watering units, etc., all the citizens of water, electricity-related citizens -- roughly 600 or 700 people -- and eventually they had their demands, and we did a study that was in line with their demands. We once stated that the people in debt, especially those in debt, didn't pay their debts to draw water from wells that are very, say, 300 or 400 meters deep. As a result, the company and we said, at least let them water it in the middle of the night. But some citizens are watering during the day, and there's no clock, and there's no electric meter, but of course we've agreed that this power company should not cut electricity, if it's to allow some of the support from our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism to be reduced to debt, so that citizens don't become victims. Without a citizen's meter, he uses a lot of unnecessary water, and that's why the land is barren. At least for the sake of saving, the issue of putting an electric meter with the alliance of all people came to light. But there's a gorgeous 221km-long artificial river that runs from Shanlıurfa to Mardin, and it's capable of delivering 200 cubic metres of water per second; it's all over. Now, from Viranşehir to Mardin, we've made all the tenders there, more or less, and some of them are being tendered. We agreed that the constructions would be accelerated, so the pumpers would be irrigated from the main channel in Şanliurfa for the next year or two, and the citizens would be very pleased. I want to stress it specifically. I'll pass on the traffic insurance issue to the Minister of Transport, and we'll follow up. In fact, if you could just give me some detailed information about that -- I'm here -- in very detailed detail -- Mr. Gürer, you know, I was in Niğde twenty days before this, where we received all the demands of all the citizens. I'll tell you all the ponds we'll do for information. We laid the foundation of some of them there, and gave them the opening date and the hours. Of course, all these ponds that I promised will be completed in Niğde, and all of them will be completed, and all the ponds that we promised will be completed.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0452par0115	I have no questions, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0450par0116	Second, there are some villages in particular. In fact, of course, if we, if those villages can get water from the pond -- you know, the responsibility of the villages is not in private administrations, it's not in our Ministry, but -- if they want to, we can open a well -- we can transfer them to private administration -- or we can make ponds, we can provide water for those villages. I'll follow this one in particular. Mr. Tanal, of course, we give water from Melene to İstanbul from time to time in the dry season in Düzce. In fact, there's enough water in the dams in Istanbul right now, there's no problem. Look, you're saying that the matter of the water of Istanbul... is that I've made the headquarters of the ISİ, and you know the state of Istanbul as well as I do. If we had watered Istanbul, which had a population of 6.5 million before 1994, once a week, the nation would be very pleased, and Kerbela had returned to Kerbala, but I am proud to say right now, Istanbul's water was planned until 2071, and there will be no problem when the Melen Dam is finished. We've got enough water now; we've got seven dams in the Istranca streams -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got -- we've got all of them. Besides, I went to Düzce. At the end of last year, a modern solid waste disposal facility is being set up. Waste water treatment facilities, even the Melen Dam, are being done now, and before it's finished, there's a main collector trying to get it thrown out of the basin. Please see the work in Düzce, then hand over the right. I'm asking you specifically. It's about the boy in Giresun... now, of course, Mr. Deputy, that has come a long way in health. This, everyone, is a citizen. Yeah, we're really short doctors. Hopefully, we'll finish this. As you know, I will personally follow as the brother-in-law of that area. Okay? Let me make that very clear.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0453par0119	That's why I asked.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0450par0120	Yes, there was an incident today -- we're really sorry -- that there was an explosion near the West Gate of the Great Mosque in the district of Bursa Orhangazi at 5:26 p.m. We're talking about a woman who's thought to be a suicide bomber. Only this one died; seven of our citizens were injured in the incident, delivered to the nearest medical institutions. However, Congressman, I must point out that the Police Department and the Intelligence Agency are working very well. I mean, we're not saying that, of course, we're not saying that they were caught here, except maybe 20 times that we didn't catch them in this kind of incident, but I was in Sanliurfa yesterday, and we got information from the governor's office, of course, and we don't say that, but really, the Police Department is very good at this sort of thing. I really congratulate our entire police department, our security forces. Look, it doesn't just happen in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0454par0122	77 times higher in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0450par0123	Hopefully, it will work more carefully.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0455par0124	Mr. Secretary, it happens in Europe, but after it's in Europe, the ministers resign, there are proud people there.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0450par0125	Now, Deputy Artvin, yes, it's about the forest cadastro... you know, the forest cadastro studies haven't been done in the past, in the days before us. After I became Minister, we made a law here, and 95 percent of the cadastro of the forest was completed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Short, short, quick...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0456par0128	Complete it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0450par0129	In fact, 75 percent of them have been registered, now have the deed to the forest. Of course, there are some conflicting issues, and we're doing this so that citizens don't become victims: if they've been using it since then, we've been planting revenue-producing species here for three years, maintenance costs belong to the Ministry, income belongs to the citizens for forty-nine years. So we're in a nice dialogue with the citizen, which I'm going to explain in a very detailed way on Monday. Thank you all very much, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0457par0131	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0458par0132	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0457par0133	I apologize. Mr. Tanal, if you'd seen Düzce....he teased me. I beg you, I want a two-minute word from the teaser.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0459par0135	I advise him to see, there's nothing wrong with that.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0460par0136	He said he advised you to see, Mr. Tanal, there's no bullying here. Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0461par0138	Mr. President, you have to promise me according to 69, Mr. Tanal. He's mentioned his name.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0462par0139	Mr. President, look, in Article 69, because of the bullying... because I am the inspector of the Republican People's Party in Düzce.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0463par0140	I don't think there's been any...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0464par0141	Wait a second... Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0463par0143	Sir, there is no bullying, we invite Mr. Tanal, so we can see it together. It's not teasing, it's an invitation, so he can say what's missing.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0464par0144	I hope you'll take us with you when you leave.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0465par0145	Mr. Secretary, then I'll take care of your expenses, so let's get out of your office cars and get out of here. Is there really a solid waste plant there, or is there one cantar, two guardhouses? So, if there's more than one cantar, two guardhouses, I'll resign, you'll resign from the Ministry?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0463par0146	I told you your projects are being done right now.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0465par0147	Loud and clear.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0466par0148	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. So the talks on chapter one are complete. We're moving on to the materials now. There are two motions on Article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the article (1) of Article 1 of the Law Charter on the Establishment of Arms Watch Commission 277 rows and Changes in Some Laws... Of the actions, attitudes, or actions that require disciplinary action, the expression "of the practice of discipline... " We propose and propose that it be changed from actions, attitudes, or actions that require disciplinary action. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Murat Minister Tanju Özcan Hayati Tekin Mahmoud Tanal Honorary Name Good Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 1st article of Law Bill 277 be added to the 1st Article (2) of the Common Command of Jandarma, as part of the Law No. 442, to be removed from the draft text of the document, as part of Law 5188, the Special Security Officers, the General Directorate of Customs, National Intelligence Service, the General Directorate of Punishments and Tevkifevs. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Behcet Yıldırım Alican Front Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0467par0168	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0466par0169	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0468par0170	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0466par0171	İstanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Paylan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0469par0175	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. He's gonna be our P.O.C.C., that's great! Because law enforcement commits crimes all the time, but it's not being watched, it's not being audited. A matter that can be taken care of within the ministry will be carried out with a law. Why? We'll get visas, go to Europe without visas next month. But can you imagine how a commission to form a Ministry within the Ministry could now inspect the armband? How can the commission under a minister's command oversee the crimes committed by the minister's political orders? But let the friends see it in the shop. We recently paid tribute to the Human Rights and Equality Association. Human rights in the country, they're all doing just fine, because we have an institution, and there's no discrimination, right? But unfortunately, there's discrimination, there's human rights violations. And when we have a law enforcement commission, nothing will change, only friends will see us shopping. We have an ombudsman, what does it do? Nothing. We're going to say we have a Human Rights Foundation, we're going to say we have friends, and now we're going to say we have a law enforcement commission. However, law enforcement has committed many crimes and needs to be audited, and it also needs to pass through education, because, unfortunately, the law, it travels with understanding and spiteful language, and considers part of its citizens to be enemies. Whereas it's a responsibility to ensure the safety of every citizen, every citizen we call law enforcement. And look what happened today. A clip has been released, and I'll give you an example: Diyarbakır Sur, a clip. The public official -- I just spoke to Deputy Minister Sebahattin Beyle -- he's got a gun in his hand, and he's shooting a clip in the ruined Surāun neighborhoods, and he says, "Strike for God, shoot for the Prophet... wake up, everyone is Armenian..." Who am I? Son of Turk... if he doesn't change, shoot the fucking head off! It's in the government's drones. Look, he can shoot this video in front of a broken mosque and in front of a broken mosque and in front of a church. Another law enforcement unit enters a church, and the descendants of Sultan Alparslan take the blasphemy to faith. He can say, "A law.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0470par0180	Say something to the PKK!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0469par0181	Look, these are our armbands, and these are young people -- we're going to the area -- 20 years old, 25 years old, young people, looking at those children with hate, with seeds of hate planted.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0471par0182	Why don't you say something to the church and the people who dropped bombs on the mosque?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0469par0183	Look, recently, some law enforcement officers in connection with the Hrant Dink murder case were finally brought before the court nine years later, and they all said: "We thought Hrant was an enemy of the Turkish people." The state knew that Hrant Dink was going to be killed, all intelligence agencies knew -- Jandarma Intelligence, Security Intelligence -- but let alone preventing the killing of Hrant. These law enforcement agencies led to the death of Hrant. Look, hatred breeds hatred, violence, and law enforcement, unfortunately, continues to discriminate. He needs to be trained in discrimination and hate crimes, or this law enforcement will continue to commit these discrimination crimes. But the fish smells all over again. He's going to America, Mr. President, when an Armenian from Sivas protested against his door, I couldn't find the conditions to live in my hometown. When he said that he could see him as ASALA, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0472par0185	What are the circumstances? What's the matter with him that he can't live?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0469par0186	... And this law can go there and say, "We will bring the heretics to faith." He can say, "Strike the Armenians." In that sense, friends, we don't need institutions, we need to face discrimination and hate crimes and teach all our young people. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0473par0189	I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0469par0190	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0473par0191	Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the article (1) of Article 1 of the Law Charter on the Establishment of Kollik Watch Commission No. 277 and Changes in Some Laws... Of the actions, attitudes, or actions that require disciplinary action, the expression "... We propose and propose that it be changed from actions, attitudes, or actions that require disciplinary action. Mahmut Tanal (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0474par0197	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0473par0198	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0475par0199	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0473par0200	İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0476par0203	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, the Bill of the Law on the Building of the Koluk Watch Commission is intended to be audited and accountable by an independent, effective commission in violation of human rights. When we look at its content, there are a lot of problems with the law, whether it really serves that purpose or not. If we look at them in the form of headlines, there's a criteria that can be chosen as bar president among the people who are going to be elected right here in connection with the establishment of the commission. Dear lawmakers, in order to be elected president of the bar, it is necessary to be a ten-year lawyer under Article 96 of the Law, or if the population is not more than 100 lawyers, the ten-year terms are not required here. Now, if we look at this commission, if he's paid his dues, if he's registered in any bar, a ten-year lawyer, or if he's not in any of our districts, he's qualified to be a bar president, but he's only registered in the bar, but he's not actually registered in the criminal law, if he's registered in the bar, how much can he serve if he's registered in this commission? Here, when we really look at it, there is no detail in terms of quality, in terms of quality, that will not serve that purpose. We're coming, in the same way, in Article 5 concerning the procedure, it says that the Commission collects the necessary conditions, at least once a month. It needs to be determined in a concrete, clear and clear state. In the same way, when we look at the (3)th joke in the 5th article, the president can only make an agenda. Dear friends, if we just let the president prepare the agenda, we've had a lot of examples of the institutions in Turkey that the presidents haven't made the agenda in the past, and they've really abused it, not that we haven't lived. That's why it's not acceptable for the president to be given this authority here. At the same time, if the president feels the need, he can bring in specialists from the outside. The people who are to be brought, however, must be taken out during the decision-making process. He says, "But it's a very waxed sentence." When these decisions are made, no one is taken in or in secret. If written, at least here, our ordinary citizen, who is not a lawyer, who does not know the law, understands the law openly and clearly. We're coming in, the central registration system says that when a complaint is made here, the identity information must be given; the name, last name, citizen's identity number, the signature, but there's no need to give a name if there are real documents, if there are strong signs. Guys, what do we call this? There's an informant in criminal law, it'll be an informant. The informant can't be the mole. You'll keep the name of this client's name hidden here when any law enforcement officer who's been charged asks to make his case. It's not acceptable, so it's useful to give these documents in terms of freedom of defense, otherwise we're going to go to a very bad thing. The 10th article is also written on specific crimes, but there is no regulation in crimes related to drug trafficking, heroin, counterfeiting, corruption, bribery, only murder, injury, deliberately crossing the border, using weapons... There are five or six counts of misdemeanor, but the real goal is to violate human rights, and smuggling is a human rights violation. Isn't kidnapping, counterfeiting, human trafficking a violation of human rights? Here, unfortunately, we call it a violation of human rights, but the arrangements here are ineffective, not even really independent, in terms of controlability in terms of the establishment of the commission, but they've always brought them as suggestions, but our friends from the ruling party didn't pay attention. I hope and hope you'll take our criticism in comparison. Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0477par0215	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who don't accept... those who don't... the matter is accepted. There are three motions on Article 2 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the title of "Responsibility" in the two-part clause of the Law Charter (J) about the establishment of Kollik Watch Commission 277 rows and the amendment to some Laws. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Hayati Tekin Murat Minister Tanju Özcan Honorary Namely Engin Özkoç Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the statement of Special Security Officers under Law No. 5188 under the Law, General Directorate of Customs, National Intelligence Agency, General Directorate of Penalty and Tevkifevs, to the second article of Article (1) of the Law of Jandarma (Jandama General Command). İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Behcet Yıldırım Hüda Kaya Alican Önlü Now I'm going to read the most anti-matter motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 2 (F) be removed from the text of matter of Article 2 of the Law Bill 277 rows that are being discussed, and that other dams be identified accordingly. With respect. Kadir Koçdemir Nuri Okurın Ruhi Ersoy İsmail Faruk Aksu Baki Şeker Erkan Haberal Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0478par0244	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0477par0245	İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0479par0248	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 2 of the Charter of Law on the Establishment of Kollik Watch Commission 277 rows and Changes in Some Laws, and I salute you all. At the top of the most important tasks and functions of the state is to ensure the safety of its citizens and to guarantee their right to take advantage of it. Law enforcement units are the primary public institutions in the implementation of these functions. As law enforcement officers offer this service, they are equipped with certain powers that other public servants do not have. The use of such important powers has made law enforcement officers more likely to be more responsible than other public officials. The Bill of Law includes the work and procedures carried out by administrative authorities concerned with actions, attitudes and actions that require disciplinary action or disciplinary action carried out by law enforcement officers serving in the Security Directorate, Police General Directorate, the General Command and Coast Guard Command. The bill also envisions the creation of the Kollik Watch Commission, headed by the Undersecretary of the Interior, in order to make the law enforcement complaint system more transparent. The bill, in this respect, only adds a formal element to the system, within the framework of the current mandate, authority and responsibilities of institutions. In fact, like all public officials, there is still a strict regime of discipline, investigation and investigation that operates in accordance with the legislation related to law enforcement. This topic, which has been on the agenda since 2007, has been viewed primarily as a development towards reducing the effectiveness and motivation of security forces during the destruction process. Dear lawmakers, the reason for the bill, however, is that there is no active record and analysis system of complaints about the law system, and that it is not possible to produce the right policies with existing data and to correctly identify the problems that have happened, but rather to point to the obligation of the legislation of this bill, it means that the government has not produced the right policies in this area, and that it has not been able to correctly identify the problems that have been wronged in the transport and administration. In the current case, complaints about law enforcement can be made to the judicial and administrative authorities. However, it is also known that there is criticism within the current complaint system that the assessment of complaints against law enforcement personnel is not effective and objective in the investigations conducted through judgment or through the inspector. They can be based on technical and legal reasons, as well as on a number of completely abstract charges. Perhaps the most problematic aspect of the current complaint system is that the majority of investigations are being conducted by law enforcement personnel at the local level and at the same law enforcement agency. In this case, problems arise due to the lack of adequate quality, experience and legal formation of law enforcement personnel conducting the investigation. The independence of the commission stated to remove these concerns is especially highlighted in the bill. Although no body, authority, authority or person in the commission is allowed to give orders or advice or suggestion to the commission regarding the issues that are involved in the commission's mandate, there is no actual application of the mandate of the ministry within the state's legal personality. As a matter of fact, the majority of the commission are senior bureaucrats appointed by political will. This will bring debates on the independence and neutrality of the commission, preventing the commission from serving effectively and efficiently. There will be no solution to the current criticism. If the goal is to examine and conclude objectively the violation caused by law enforcement officers, the mechanisms that allow us to do so are already in our legislation. In this case, instead of creating a new commission, measures aimed at resolving the system's blockages would be appropriate within the meri legislation. Dear lawmakers, we think the problem is that the meri legislation is not in the right hands. With that understanding, whatever commission you set up, problems will continue. It must be remembered that it is vital for an effective public administration to identify human power with an understanding based on merit rather than political merits that will run the system as much as the quality of the system. I salute the General Assembly when I cease speaking with these thoughts.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0480par0256	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the statement of Special Security Officers under Law No. 5188 under the Law, General Directorate of Customs, National Intelligence Agency, General Directorate of Penalty and Tevkifevs, to the second article of Article (1) of the Law of Jandarma (Jandama General Command). Huda Kaya (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0481par0262	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0480par0263	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0482par0264	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0480par0265	İstanbul MP Hüda Kaya has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0483par0268	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 2 of the Constitutional Charter of the Council of Watch Commission 277 rows. First of all, I wish our children the best of luck when they take the TEOG exams. I hope they get results that will be a blessing for the rest of their lives. Dear friends, the matter of the monitoring of law enforcement, the establishment of the commission of auditing, the work of some of the previous commissions and legislations, if only the European Union had a step by consideration of standards, such as visa problems, even if it had a verbiage of 80 million peoples, such freedoms, expression, thought, freedoms of faith, and we could call that a brevity. But, you know, just as a formality, let freedoms be guaranteed constitutionally, even by law enforcement forces and all kinds of injustices and corruption that need to be judged, discussed, investigated, followed, protected by a professional internal control mechanism, and those crimes will be legitimized. Will the Ministry of Internal Affairs investigate the law enforcement forces, their responsibility, their crimes, their crimes, that tortures, plunders the people's homes in such a mechanism, at a time when the perpetrators, murderers, thieves are being exonerated? Just today in Diyarbakır, an elderly woman was run over by a Panzer and died, friends. When this commission is set up, will this commission find the person responsible and pursue it? Is that what we're hoping for? I wish we could. I wish we could hope that a structure under the control of a ministry responsible for war and violence was justified. So, while the commission should be open to external control, with an internal control mechanism, unfortunately, we don't think that justice can be served, justice can be done. The chairmanship of the Independent Corps Watch Commission should not be tied to a single ministry; it should not be possible; a structure should be established with the representations of NGOs and different environments, guaranteeing its independent quality. In our country, we have grave problems in the field of thought, expression, freedom of faith, and the wrong practices of law enforcement in all areas of the state against the public, against civilians, and we continue to live in the middle, every day. We need to take these steps so that the consequences of these investigations, the cases of law enforcement, don't happen in a single ministry. For example, there are people who have been killed and injured by security forces because they did not comply with the warning. For example, 53 of them were slaughtered by law enforcement; so, stop. There were 118 people injured by such simple matters as this. For example, in the CHP's Kilis report, I'd like to inform you that the governor of Kilis has spoken about missiles being launched by ISIS: of course, fuses will fall, will they stay in the air, gravity. Such violence, such as those who have lost the lives of around 18 people, who will be able to complain to whom the people who are in a position to carry out those responsible? The scope of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0484par0276	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that the title of Article 2 (j) of the Law Charter on the Establishment of Arms Watch Commission 277 rows under discussion be changed to the title "Information." Mevlüt Dudu (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0485par0282	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0484par0283	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0486par0284	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0484par0285	Hatay MP Mevlüt Dudu wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dudu.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0487par0288	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 2 of the Legislature on the establishment of Kollik Watch Commission 277 and the amendment to some Laws. I salute the High Council. The Council's Watch Commission, envisioned, will be established within the framework of our 65th obligation on the road map of the European Union's immigration and visa liberalisation agreement. However, this deal is a hoax. This agreement will turn Turkey into an open refugee camp. The conditions of the European Union are very severe. With this agreement, the European Union almost bought its own security. Yes, there's a one-on-one rule, but the European Union has limited its number of immigrants to 72,000 under the agreement. What about our 3 million Syrian refugees? In addition, the European Union will accept from us immigrants who are temporarily protected from Turkey's security scan. So there is no security risk for the European Union. So, what will Turkey get in exchange for this deal, and what will we get? We'll take two things: one, visa liberalisation in the Schengen region of Turkish citizens. However, the European Union has set 72 criteria for this. So far, Turkey has only been able to afford 36 of them. Many countries of the European Union, primarily France, are making very negative statements on this issue. On May 4th, the 3rd Visa Freedom Progress Report will be announced, and we are looking forward to it. If a negative decision comes out of the European Parliament, visa liberalisation will not be possible. As a matter of fact, Mr. Davutoglu, who came to Gaziantep last week, said that without a visa liberalisation, there would be no resuscitation. This is a statement confirming the uncertainty of the process. What's the second thing we get in exchange for a deal? Six billion euros, the famous Kaiseri deal, which is unknown whether he'll be paid off or not. In Turkish, the expression "Kayseri negotiations" is an expression of how open-eyed Kayseri is, who knows his business, and who does good business. I'll give you some numbers right here. 800,000 Syrian refugees live in Germany. Germany spent 26 billion euros last year on these 800,000 Syrian refugees. I repeat, Germany has spent 26 billion euros a year on 800,000 Syrian refugees. Well, what it tells us now: take this 6 billion euros, keep those 3 million Syrian refugees in your possession on their borders, turn your country into a refugee camp. Don't send it to me, don't send it to Europe. It's an insult to Kayseri in the first place; it's an ill-advised, confused merchant's business. As a ruling party that makes it a habit to say, the European Union has deceived us. We also wait to hear from you when we hear from you. Dear MPs, a few words for the secularist President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Actually, it's not much to say. If you say secularism should not be in the Constitution, then I say to you: "You shouldn't sit in that seat either. (Applause from CHP rows) The religious constitution wants the constitution, fine, there are countries like this; Tunisia, Morocco, Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and many more Arab countries. You get up, you move in there. Godspeed. Because this dream can't happen in this land. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0488par0295	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on the third article. I'm going to run the final motion directly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the general director of the criminal affairs of the Ministry of Justice of Justice shall be changed into the director general of the administration of the cities. With all due respect. Kadir Koçdemir Nuri Okurın Ruhi Ersoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Commission for Collateral Observation of Article (1) of Article 3 of Law Bill 277 is established to carry out the duties given under this law independently under its own authority and responsibility. The Commission serves as a permanent committee within the Ministry of Interior." We offer and offer to change it into form. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ayşe Acar Başaran Müslüm Doğan Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlülı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third article of the Law Charter on the Establishment of Collateral Watch Commission No. 277 and Changes in Some Laws (2) be changed in the following way. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Hayati Tekin Engin Özkoç Murat Minister Mahmut Tanal Tanju Özcan The Commission, headed by the Undersecretary, President of the Prime Minister's Human Rights, Chairman of the Interior Ministry's Property Board, Ministry 1. The Attorney General of the Department of Justice is a member of the Council of Ministers, one of the three candidates for the three oldest law schools, according to the order of the Justice Ministry, who will be elected from among the three candidates for the main science and criminal law of the three oldest law schools, and one of the three candidates for whom the members of the Turkish Association of Bars will choose themselves, and one of the three candidates will be elected by the Council of Ministers of Ministers, who will be qualified to be elected bar president." Does the Commission agree with the latest proposed motion?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0489par0323	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0488par0324	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0490par0325	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0488par0326	Izmir MP Murat Minister demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0491par0329	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute the General Assembly. I have taken a pledge on Article 3 of the Legislature Charter for the Building of the Watch Commission 277 rows. Before I begin my words, I pray for God's mercy to all of our law enforcement officers who have been martyred in their duties, and bow before them with all due respect. Dear friends, I also made a promise yesterday on the whole bill, so what I'm going to say here is a little bit more repetitive, but the third article is, in fact, all of our criticisms. But before we get to this clause, this bill alone does not serve the purpose that we desire, that we desire to pass this law. Before we look at this, we need to assess the state of the law enforcement forces we're setting up. This law is important, it is important that the law enforcement force, which holds the power to use force for the public's sake to ensure public safety, act in accordance with the law when using this power, is important to ensure effective control of law enforcement forces; it is important for the public to ensure public safety. But let's assess the state of the law enforcement force. My dear friends, our law enforcement forces serve under very heavy conditions. On the one hand, he's fighting terrorism, terrorists, and he's fighting rapists, thieves, mobsters, con artists, but he's giving the biggest challenge to his livelihood, his health problems, his children's future. Twenty- thirty hours straight, law enforcement. The transfer faces injustices in promotions. Many tasks are carried out by law enforcement. Many departments of law enforcement have financial inequality; private units have taltifs, awards; an officer who works at the police station has no right to do so. The police are cut off from being chief. We expect European standards in the ministry, but when it comes to our rights, we set our own standards. Specialist gendarmes have status problems; their staff has been removed, turned into petty officers, and their schools have been shut down. 22,000 veterans expect the status issue to be resolved. Specialist doesn't have job guarantees, they're all contractual, and we get martyr news from these kids every day. When they're martyrs, we go, we cry at their funerals, we weep, but we don't take any steps towards their rights while they're alive. We've brought it up in the National Defence Commission, and I've brought it up in the Interior Commission as we speak, so let's do this, let's take further democratic steps, but first let's solve the identity issues of these country children, poor sons, poor parents, children who live in houses without plaster. I said, "Let's not take a step forward." [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, we care about these legal arrangements. The Human Rights and Equality Foundation is important, the Law on Protection of Personal Data is important, but it is important if the law is right; it is important if it is passed by common mind and agreement. What did we propose about the third article? In our opposition and our motion here, we said, "Let the Council of Ministers choose this bill again from among the three oldest law faculty professors, instead of the candidates the Home Secretary will recommend from our universities; and from the candidates the Minister of Justice will recommend from the members of the Bar Association." We couldn't get two of the seven commissioners to agree, even as the Council of Ministers would. But we could have passed this law unanimously. The AKP, CHP, MP, HDP groups would send a message of reconciliation from here, we would pass this law here without discussing it, maturely, and the wave wave would spread the message of reconciliation under this parliament roof, but it didn't happen that way. My suggestion is that at least these two members will be selected from the members of the Bar Association, which will be recommended by the three oldest law schools. That way, we'd be doing a good job, dear friends. I salute you all, the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0492par0340	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The article (1) of Article 3 of Law Bill 277, which has been discussed, "The Coalition Watch Commission is established to carry out the duties given by this law independently under its own authority and responsibility. The Commission serves as a permanent committee within the Ministry of Interior." We offer and offer to change it into form. Alican Önlü (Tunceli) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0493par0347	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0492par0348	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0494par0349	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0492par0350	Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran is asking for a word on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Acar Basian.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0495par0353	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the establishment of Kollik Watch Commission 277 rows and the amendment to some Laws Article 3 of the Charter. To be honest, this is the number of institutions we've established in the year of life, and we don't know the number anymore. Again, frankly, I'm not sure if we know what these institutions really mean in Congress, if we're really focused on this. But it's an institution that we still have, no matter where we hold it, on the matter of the law. Do we need such an institution? We need to start and move on, or should it say: Does such an institution need to be established now to observe the armband? Because when you look at it, the law already shares all their violations over social media. Once again, law enforcement can make all of its rights violations into a video and publish it, do we really need such an institution to open the necessary investigations into them, to have the necessary audit done? No. Let's just say, when the Hajji League dragged behind that panzer and the law enforcement camera self-published, did we need an institution like this to be audited? No. As it is, the law is constantly broadcasting over social media as if all its violations, all its tortures, were documented by its own hand, as if it were something very important. I don't think we need this agency, so if we could just follow through on social media, we'd be making an observation. We're looking at the institution established within this law again. One of our ministers said: "We, the girl." Again, I'll tell you this: if you think we're going to accept it, if you're trying to convince us that the boy is yours, the girl is yours, that the institution, which is essentially responsible for these illegalities within the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is going to oversee or monitor these law enforcement forces again, then you're obviously mistaken. Because it should be considered to be responsible for all the illegal practices, all the tortures, the indiscriminate use of force that exceeds the purpose of this armband, as well as the Home Office itself. Because he's already in charge of auditing and throwing out the necessary investigations at the appropriate time. We're not going to put anything above that obligation by setting up such an institution. What are we gonna do? We'll be adding another institution to the European Union for visa exemption. In three days, when there is no visa exemption, we'll come back, this time we'll remove this institution. We'll have an argument over it again, and you'll just vote for the removal of the institution. Because in terms of the content of this institution, frankly, I don't think most of the fellow lawmakers here have any knowledge or equipment. We also know that there is no contact with an NGO or any other NGOs or experts involved in these institutions. We don't have a problem with institutionalization in this country, there are institutions running all over the place. We have a problem of socialization; we have a problem of democratization; we have a problem of liberalization; we have a problem of rights, of defending law; if we add another institution to these institutions, we won't be able to overcome them; we have a problem of mentalism about rights and freedoms; we have a problem of mentality. If such a racist, fascist video is made and posted on social media, and it's tolerated, then we need to start here and talk about how to get ahead of these applications. Let's leave these institutions. If we really want the European Union to accept us, let's put these injustices aside and discuss how a real, decent country will move forward with the public. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0496par0360	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "General Director of Criminal Affairs of the Ministry of Justice" in Article 3 of Law Bill 277, which is currently in session, be changed into "General Manager of the Administration of the Provinces." With all due respect. Kadir Koçdemir (Bursa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0497par0367	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0496par0368	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0498par0369	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0496par0370	I'm reading the reason: Article 3 of the bill includes the head of the Department of Justice Department of Criminal Affairs at the establishment of the Kolluk Watch Commission, but not including execution guards serving within the Ministry of Justice. Besides, the Justice Department is not a direct agency for law enforcement. As it is known, the owners of the property are responsible for security and security in the provinces and districts. The General Directorate of the Ministry of Interior is the executive director of Provinces Administration Law 5442. In this regard, it would be more accurate to ensure compliance and co-ordination for the purpose of the law, as opposed to the commission's Criminal Affairs General Director, instead of the Ministry of Interior Governor-General. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Before voting on the clause, the Commission has a request for a review, which will be put to a vote with the Commission's review. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0499par0376	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are the Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey and the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey, adopted by Law 6701 in the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 6 April 2016. In this context, I'd like to commend you on the fact that the statement of the Human Rights Institution of Turkey, referred to in the third article of Law Bill 277 rows of the meeting, is to be redacted in the form of President of Human Rights and Equality.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0496par0378	I submit to your votes on Article 3 of Article 3 of the Commission's review: those who accept... those who do not accept... the clause is accepted. There are three motions on Article 4 that I am reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 (b) of the Law Bill 277 rows that are being discussed be replaced in the form of the reference of the report, which is alleged to have taken place. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Behcet Yıldırım Müslüm Doğan Alican Önlü Ferhat Encu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of Law Bill 277 be replaced in the following manner by Article (1) (f). With all due respect. Kadir Koçdemir Nuri Okutın Erkan Haberal Baki Simsek Ruhi Ersoy Mevlüt Karakaya f) Watch, assess, and make recommendations to the Ministry for the development and improvement of law enforcement services. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 4 of Article 4 of the Law Charter (1) (c) from the text of the clause. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Murat Minister Tanju Özcan Honorary Namely Engin Özkoç Mahmut Tanal Does the Commission agree with the latest proposed motion?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0500par0403	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0496par0404	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0501par0405	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0496par0406	Ankara MP Levent Gök has asked for a statement on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0502par0409	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding the establishment of Kollik Watch Commission 277 rows and the amendment to some Laws Article 4 of the Law Bill. I salute you all with love and respect. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers we've been interviewing are being set up under the European Court of Human Rights to establish a mechanism for investigating violations that may have been caused by the European Court of Human Rights in the past. The European Court of Human Rights stressed in its previous decisions that there was not enough mechanism to process them due to the actions and procedures caused by the law in Turkey, and that is why this law is being discussed here today and is being tried to legalise it from here. Of course, in Turkey, the armband has very important problems. At first, education problems, autonomy rights issues, and the increasing violence and terrorism in Turkey, especially in recent years, continue as a phase in which law enforcement has always been psychologically affected in every aspect of life and has contributed negatively to their lifestyles. However, in order to ensure security as one of the main tasks of the state, law enforcement forces must have been able to survive such well-trained, well-equipped and well-equipped situations as I've just stated, that the security mission, which is a primary task, must be carried out on the basis of human rights and freedoms. That's where Turkey's biggest lack comes from. Because all serious violations of human rights in Turkey, of fundamental rights and freedoms, are caused by negative practices by law enforcement. In this regard, Turkey is one of the most corrupt countries in the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights has sentenced Turkey to compensation for many practices in gathering evidence, including widespread violence, torture and systematic detention in Turkey, following calls -- top searches, house searches -- in addition to this. Now, we're going to create a surveillance mechanism with this law that we've brought in, and the complaint caused by law enforcement officers in Turkey will examine the procedures and actions. My dear friends, this law, unfortunately, is not the law described by the European Court of Human Rights, because when you look at the material that regulates the establishment, which regulates the structure of the board, a structure that is completely dependent on the government, so it is completely dependent on the state to not be independent in the establishment of a board that should be more independent. However, it is not possible for a government body, a commission, to examine these rights violations, to examine them properly, to examine them as they should, as they should, as they should, when the state is in violation of human rights itself. This law, as we have recently established at the Human Rights Institution, will unfortunately be a harsh law and will come before us as a law that must be changed. My dear friends, after not building the structure of the board as a more independent and pluralistic structure, we have to state that whatever authority and position you give the board is not in accordance with the standards adopted by the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore -- the law has not yet been passed -- the government is here, the ruling party is here -- if we can change the structure of the board, if we can get more independence, we can bring the board's field, its borders to a better place, and we can make a law in accordance with the principles described by the European Court of Human Rights. It's far from affordable. I've been promised these things. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0503par0417	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Dear Yım, I'll give you my word on 60 for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0504par0423	Yeah, we're having another historic day today. Our fellow public defenders, we had this special day on May 17, 2000, which is exactly the same today... which is April 27, 2016, which means today we have another team of European champions, Galatasaray, who has renewed his title again. Today, our basketball team won 78-67 and won the European championship. Congratulations to our team from here.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0503par0426	Thank you. As a Fenerbahçelı, we also celebrate the Galatasaray Men's Basketball Team as the Court and as the entire General Assembly, we congratulate and wish for further success. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We continue with the motions on the 4th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of Law Bill 277 be replaced in the following manner by Article (1) (f). With all due respect. Mevlüt Karakaya (Adana) and his friends f) Watch, assess, and make recommendations to the Ministry for the development and improvement of law enforcement services. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0505par0442	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0503par0443	Government?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0506par0444	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0503par0445	Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0507par0448	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the motion on Article 4 of the Charter on the Building of the Kolluk Watch Commission. I salute you all. Before we begin our assessment of the matter, at this time, I greet all law enforcement officers in traffic, especially in the fight against terrorism, with love and conversation. Dear lawmakers, in fact, when we look at the goal of setting up the law enforcement commission, we see that there are issues about increasing the activity in the complaint system and pursuing criminal allegations and disciplinary sentences and keeping the central record system involved. In fact, the question is, perhaps, what is our interest in setting up this law enforcement commission? In fact, in modern and modern approaches, maybe we should look at it in a way that improves the quality of law enforcement. We have to look at it this way, but when we look at the law as a whole, we actually see that surveillance and control functions are mixed up. Control requires a result-oriented approach, and surveillance requires a process-oriented approach. If we want to improve the quality of service, then we need to adopt an approach that takes into account the process. Today, we lived here together, spent hours in non-valued activities. It is imperative that we calculate and prepare the values of a law that will add to its purpose, to its scope. The process is that if we want to improve the quality of service, the quality of law enforcement officers, we need to look at the process first. Let's get as many control mechanisms as we want, create as many surveillance systems as we want, let's do the board one way or another, let's do it the way we want, but what's more important is that we look at what's happening in the process, more than just reviewing the outcome. This is from the bench. I've just spoken to the police in the lobby, they're on duty for 12 hours, 12 to 12. We cannot improve the quality of law enforcement without correcting the working conditions, improving the working environment. Look, today, if we want to do surveillance and inspection on the conditions of the European Union, then we have to give our law enforcement officers a working environment on the terms of the European Union. We're not talking about this, what are we talking about? It'll make the loads even heavier, but we're discussing issues, issues that will go to question the results. Dear lawmakers, look, security guards in the countries of the European Union, with the most severe working conditions, are our security guards, our policemen, our soldiers, our gendarmes, our coast guard. In particular, the additional indicators of the police in particular will be 3600, a review of the second commandment application, correcting other rights, paying overtime fees may be very, very simple corrections that we can make. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute your high council again. We voted against this bill -- as our other speakers have expressed. My respects again. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0508par0458	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 (b) of the Law Bill 277 rows that are being discussed be replaced in the form of the reference of the report, which is alleged to have taken place. Ferhat Encu (Shernaq) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0509par0464	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0508par0465	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0510par0466	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0508par0467	Şırnak MP Ferhat Encu has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Encu.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0511par0470	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I remember all the civilians, all the children who were murdered by law enforcement.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0512par0472	Law enforcement doesn't slaughter.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0513par0473	Don't be ridiculous!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0514par0474	What are you talking about? How the hell did he slaughter law enforcement?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0515par0475	Go ahead, keep talking.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0516par0476	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Orator, please use a careful sentence.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0517par0478	I don't think this bill...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0518par0479	Back it up, back it up!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0517par0480	This bill, in fact, means nothing in practice, that we've lived in the last four months, that we've been subjected to the violence of law enforcement, how our people have been slaughtered by law enforcement in front of our eyes, how they've been tortured.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0519par0482	Watch your language, that's right!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0520par0483	What's he talking about, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0521par0484	They're terrorists, terrorists, terrorists.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0522par0485	...known to everyone...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0520par0486	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0523par0487	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0524par0488	Mr. President, step in, please.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0525par0489	...and the AKP government that condones it demonstrates how insincere it is in this bill.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0526par0491	You will be judged for your words.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0527par0492	Mr. President, a word of warning!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0528par0493	Mr. President, a word of warning!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0529par0494	Mr. Encu... Mr. Encu, I invite you to speak in a clean language. Please do not use harsh and hurtful words.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0530par0496	What we're talking about here...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0529par0497	Law enforcement doesn't slaughter.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0531par0498	He's telling you what he saw, the President, he's telling you what he saw!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0530par0499	The facts we're talking about here...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0529par0501	The law enforcement forces are fighting terrorism.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0531par0502	He says he's alive!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0530par0503	The facts we're describing here...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0532par0504	That's not true, that's not true!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0533par0505	Are you a terrorist or a terrorist's supporter? Are you a terrorist? Are you a terrorist?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0530par0506	You might not like it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0533par0507	What kind of talk is that? Is that a conversation? No, President, he can't talk like that!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0530par0509	I remind you of Esra Shalk, two years old. In the final process...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0533par0510	What the hell is he talking about? He can't talk like that. He can't talk like that!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0534par0511	Learn to listen first!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0535par0512	You'll pay for it, you'll pay for it, you'll pay for it!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0536par0513	The one who was murdered in the final process...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0537par0514	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0536par0515	Murdered in Silopi, killed in cannon shells...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0538par0516	Mr. President, he's still insisting.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0536par0517	I remind you of civilians.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0539par0519	You're gonna pay for this, you're gonna pay for this!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0540par0520	You're a terrorist, a terrorist!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0536par0521	Four years ago, in Roboski, by Turkish fighter planes...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0541par0523	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0536par0524	I remind you of 34 people, children, who were brutally bombed.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0542par0526	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0541par0527	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0536par0528	You might not like it...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0543par0530	You're a murderer! You're a murderer! You support murderers!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0541par0531	Mr. Encu, I invite you to use a language in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0536par0532	You might not like it...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0541par0533	I invite you to use a language in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0544par0534	Mayor, you need to warn the hall, not the preacher, warn the hall.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0545par0535	You're a murderer, you support murderers!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0546par0536	Look at your face, your face! Go look in the mirror!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0547par0537	...but unfortunately, they're real.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0545par0538	Don't look this way! You son of a bitch! You're a terrorist, a defender of bloody terrorists, murderers! The killers of our martyrs are with terrorists...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0548par0539	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0549par0540	The speaker on the stand can speak as he pleases.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0548par0541	The answer is given, please...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0550par0542	You came down from the mountain, from the mountain! You're a terrorist!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0551par0543	Let me point out from here that those who accuse us of being defenders of murderers are actually covering their crimes in Kurdish provinces.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0552par0544	This isn't Cizre, this isn't Cizre! They destroyed you in the basement!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0550par0545	You're supposed to be in prison.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0551par0546	This reaction of yours won't cover up the facts.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0552par0548	What happened in the basement?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0553par0549	That's a shame! You're talking on that stand!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0554par0550	Mr. Encu, I'd like to invite you to use a clean language, please...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0555par0551	It's immoral...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0553par0552	Where do you find such killers? That's the killer's head.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0556par0553	Bear with it, bear with it, bear with it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0557par0554	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0558par0556	I invite you to use a clean language. I invite you to obey the Constitution and the Civil Law.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0557par0557	Mr. President, will you shut him up?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0558par0559	I invite you to obey the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0557par0560	Will you shut him up?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0559par0561	There can be no such talk in any of the world's Parliaments.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0558par0563	Congressmans, please, the necessary answer is...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0557par0564	Even the complaint system has been abolished, the victim of law enforcement...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0560par0565	You're a terrorist, you're from the mountain!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0561par0566	Who the hell are you? Are you a judge or something? You're a judge!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0562par0567	You're slaughtering Kurds!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0563par0568	How will the so-called power of this country control these law enforcement forces, who don't even record our people's complaints?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0562par0570	Only the people on the mountain will send you here.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0564par0571	You should be in jail!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0565par0572	You're a judge or something!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0566par0573	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0567par0574	Mr. President, would you turn down the mike?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0568par0575	You can scream, you can not digest; these are real.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0569par0577	You're talking shamelessly here!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0570par0578	You're a terrorist!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0571par0579	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0572par0580	Those who accuse me of being a terrorist are the best of terrorists.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0571par0582	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0573par0583	You're a terrorist! You're a PKK man, look at that face!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0574par0584	What are you going to do? Sit down and listen.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0575par0585	Get back in your seats!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0576par0586	You can't stand it, you can't stand it.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0577par0587	This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0578par0588	You can't accuse me of being a terrorist by the will of this people.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0579par0589	Yeah, who are you? You dirty man!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0578par0590	Know your place! We're not afraid of you.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0580par0592	You're the leader of the terrorist!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0578par0593	We're not afraid of you, we'll report your crimes on every platform. You can't cover up these facts.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0581par0595	Mr. Encu, your time is up, please. [[EC PARTY and HDP MPs march to the bench]] Congressmans, please take your seats...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0582par0598	Terrorist! Terrorist!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0583par0599	Shameless!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0584par0600	Speak decently, decently! Learn your manners first. Know your manners, and then...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0585par0602	Shame, there's no language like that.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0586par0603	You're a terrorist with terrorist support from terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0584par0604	It tells you what you've been through, what you've been through!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0587par0606	It's the terrorist who supports terrorist organizations!
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0588par0607	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0589par0608	What the fuck are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-04-27sit06spe0588par0609	Mr. Mountain, Mr. Encu... I'm inviting everyone to their seats. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit07spe0588par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're continuing with the talks of Bill 277. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-27sit08spe0588par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 82nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. The meeting held on 28/04/2016 by the Council of Counsellors on 28/04/2016 allowed the General Assembly to not meet on 28, 29 and 30 April Thursdays, Friday and Saturday (April 2nd 2016), until Monday's meeting of the 298th Bill of Law (May 2016), to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly until the completion of the 24-day programme at night. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. We'll resume the talks of Bill 277. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with the European Commission and the European Commission Report on the Companies 2/2016, where the Joint Responsibility Committee on Responsibility between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union is suitable for ratification of its 2/2016 Decision. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions could not be found after this, the decision (11/9) was made to discuss other tasks from the commissions on Monday (May 2nd 2016) in order to discuss the agenda of the motion for the geneorary motion on Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu and the draft and proposals of the law and the commissions, respectively, at 14 p.m. on Monday (May 2, 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish you a good night.
