tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 122nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to the People's State of Emergency MP Lale Karbük, who asked for a comment on the victims of the State of Emergency. Here you go, Mr. Carbage.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the coup attempt on July 15th has been made against our parliamentary democracy. We curse those responsible for this coup attempt, their supporters inside and out, and we demand that they be punished under the law. Since the evening of July 15th, our people have been uneasy. On that day, little children encountered the word "darbe" and asked what the blow was when they woke up in the morning. On that night, all political parties opposed the coup attempt and united in a common denominator of democracy. Yes, coups are devastating, we're always opposed to military or civil coups, but the fact that they're responsible for identifying those who attempt a coup and those who are not responsible for anger and prejudice or responsible, creating social unrest can also lead to some fractures. In fact, it can leave as bad marks as the devastating effects of the coup. The way the coup attempt was led will be important for history in the future, as well as for perception in the international environment. First of all, I want to emphasize once again the importance of dissolution of those who are responsible for the peace of our people and not harming their individual personalities. Yes, now I'm going to tell you a true story. I just said that the responsible and the irresponsible... [[Noises]] Mr. President, would you mind keeping the noise down a bit?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0003par0016	Just a moment, Mr. Carbage. Congressmans, sir, Mr. Karbük is talking about something important. I feel a hum in the General Assembly. Please listen to the preacher, sir. Here you go, Mr. Carbage.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0004par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I'm a Bursa MP, I've lived in Burma for thirty-four years, I've been an academic for twenty-seven years, and I know the environment and the processes in Bursa. Now, I'm going to tell you a true story. Before the opening of the University of Orhangazi, the university was called to an iftar dinner, all the university workers, all the industrialists, businessmen, and individuals in Bursa. There was the Governor, there was the Mayor, there was the Chief Constable, there were all the senior executives, and the model of the university was put on the screen, and it was said: "This place will be over in a year, and the whole business world will support it. Support has been requested for other places like this. These supports were sometimes asked by the top executives of the state to call and sometimes to visit the workplace in person. I'd like to say that there are some people who are willing to support these coup entrepreneurs, ▪, but there are also those who are forced to give, or there are others who are involved without knowing. Look, there are people who can make mistakes whether they know it or not, just as they say they made mistakes. These need to be very well isolated. BOTAS employee, child sick, surgery. The state hospital has given us a very long time. So everyone can go to private hospitals. We say, or he goes, but they charge him a lot of money for surgery, and they say, "Here's a 30 percent discount if you join this union. He's doing this unconsciously, and now he's out of work. Teachers are unemployed for days, several years; they can't be placed, they can't be appointed. He goes to a private home, then he's turned into a private school, and he gets a job. Now he is asked why were you a teacher there? That's how the industrialists are. Some knowingly do not know who... those who do it on purpose, those who support it, yes, they should be punished, but it's very important that others be separated, preventing these victims. The children of these people, look, the child of a teacher I just told you about, or the child of a citizen who used a loan from a bank playing in the street, your father is a coupger, and we will not play with you. This is a social break when they say. Yes, we say he should be punished, but the ones responsible. We demand that this process be carried out rationally, not in anger, but in a reasonable way, and we demand that these victims not be created. The right direction of this process will go down in history. Look, in international environments, you also see the criticism of perception management, whether or not the state of emergency is being used well, is being abused. So it's going to matter how the state of emergency is run, and I want to underline it once again. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0005par0028	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Kırıkkale MP Mehmet Demir (Kırıkkale) who asked for a statement on the coup attempt on July 15, 2016. Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0006par0033	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise of a coup attempt against the national will on July 15th. I hereby salute the High Council and our beloved nation, who are watching over us on their screens. A black stain on the mind of the 15th of July has taken its sacred place in history as an epic democracy in the name of the nation. I'd like to point out right away that a memory from my childhood days of the coup d'état of September 12, 1980 is that the men gathered to the square of the village are lined up in a row, declared to be a coup, and if anyone makes a sound, they get knocked down with a hard slap or a dip-chop. However, even during those days of persecution, the barrel of weapons does not directly target a civilian, a nation. But in the July 15th attempt of betrayal, the barrels turned public, the cannons turned national, and the planes did not live up to the bombing of the Parliament, which is the capitol of the national will that we are now in. Mr. President, good lawmakers, history hasn't written such a vile deed until that day. Now can we just call it a coup attempt? It was the occupation of this country that was attempted that day. This nation was tried to be shot in the back with a poisonous dagger, so that it might not be able to hold its back for another hundred years, but praise be to God, the games have passed on to the builders. With no political opinion, ethnic structure, or anything like it, our nation, with the awareness of being a nation, with the pleasure of our late poet Mehmet Akif. In the words of our late poet, Mehmet Akif.....he has shielded his body from indecency and has not surrendered his state of thousands of years to military-weared traitors, terrorists. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have long been able to conceal themselves as a sneaky disease, which has turned the sincerity, generosity, and sacrifice of the saintly nation into one of the most immoral robberies. He turned the innocent children of the people of Anatolia into mankurtas, traitors, bloody terrorists, and did not hesitate to use the most sacred feelings in doing so. For 40 years he patiently watched over a scorpion's egg for his goals, he promised to bring forth a phoenix from that egg. Thank God our people saw the game before that egg cracked. Mr. President, our Prime Minister, our Commander-in-Chief, our president Recep Tayyip Erdogan did not raid the squares with a word that he did not violate his home. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I am proud to be a member of such a reckless nation walking to death. I assume you'll share my feelings, too. Because on the night of July 15th of the treason attempt, both the ruling and opposition parties and all the components of the society that differed have shown a decisive attitude towards traitors. For the sake of national defense, they've moved on from political competition, and in difficult times in our political history, there's always been a note to remember. When I stop speaking, I pray to God for mercy to our martyrs, and to our veterans for immediate healing. On July 15th, in the face of the coup attempt by the coupters and against the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), I respectfully remember our martyrs who shielded his body for his flag. I want to mention the names of our brothers who were martyrs: Hakan Yorulmaz, Alparslan Printer, Volcanian Pilavcı, Aydın Çopur, Volcano Canöz, Modern Tamkoc, Osman Yıldırım, Oğuz Sümbül, Bakir Deniz, Ali Tonga. The place of our martyrs is heaven, and the grave is light, and I salute our beloved nation and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0007par0040	Thank you, Mr. Iron. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, who wants to talk about the problems of the grape makers. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0008par0045	Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about the problems of the grape makers. I salute your honorable committee. Turkey produces 4 million tonnes of grapes on average in 480,000 hectares of vineyards. Turkey is ranked sixth in the world in the production of grapes, the production of raisins without seeds and exports. Our country exports an average of $500 million in raisins and $200 million in aged grapes each year. 88% of the dried grapes in Turkey are produced in Manisa. In Manisa, 100,000 families earn their living from grapes. Grapes are the family's livelihood, the young's dowry, the children's allowance. Our manisa farmer has been unable to harvest crops for several years because of his frosting and hailing disasters. The Manisaian grape producer, affected by the 2014 hailing disaster, faced the frost disaster in April 2015 and March 2016. The frost disaster in March was effective in 7 districts of Manisa, in 150 neighborhoods, while 5.979 damaged between 10 per cent and 90 per cent of our farmer's 130 per cent. In July of this year, the sunburn caused 20 per cent loss in the vineyards and lack of quality in some districts of Manisa. Sunburn is not included in natural disaster and TARSIM insurance. Sunburns should be included in TARSIM insurance. Because of the Don disaster, there has been damage to the bonds that will affect the product of next year. Therefore, debt to public banks and agricultural loan co-ops must be postponed long-term and interest-free by manisa farmers affected by the frost disaster. Farmers must be given long-term life-water loans free of interest and long-term in order to heal their wounds and prepare for the next year. In 2015, the TARSIM premium in the bonds is 90 liras per gram. The insurance premium increased to 170 liras in 2016 in case this bond was damaged. Our farmer, whose vineyard has been damaged, can't get insurance due to the increase in bonuses. Therefore, insurance or no insurance, the losses of farmers affected by the disaster must be compensated, and our farmers must be supported by each other. The claims of damage detection experts from TARSIM have become a common belief that their reports do not reflect actual damage rates. In order to resolve these discrepancies, the head of the county agricultural chamber must be a natural member of the TARSIM (TARSIM) damage detection team and participate in damage detection studies. The price of grapes is falling due to statements that the grape resolves are high before each harvest period, and the farmers in debt have to sell their grapes cheaply. The state must be involved to prevent speculation in recollateral computation. Recolte account and forecast should be determined by a commission consisting of agricultural municipal managers, farmers, agricultural chambers, the plantery institute, Tarish, trade markets and exporters. Of the members of this commission, the grape intervention institution must be established and the price fluctuations in the grape must be prevented. Tarish is unable to buy to resuscitate the market due to lack of resources, so the price of grapes is falling. Based on the recluse in the seedless grapes, the destabilization of supply demand is a victim to our producers. Therefore, production planning must be made first. Our grape maker hasn't been paid for years of hard work. In 2000, an aged grape, whose kilogram is 80 cents a pound, is now sold for $1 a pound. The domestic market left about 25,000 tonnes of raisins in the last year. If this grape is not melted immediately, the new season will reduce the price of raisins. Alternative consumption opportunities should be developed for grape production; storage system must be established, storage costs must be supported, and grapes must be included in support. Smuggled grapes cause the price to drop in the domestic market and mixed in the Turkish grape... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...sold out of the country and threatened our quality. With these thoughts, I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0009par0058	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. The outside talks under Article 59 of the Civil Code have ended. Now, I'm going to take turns making promises to lawmakers who are asking for word by entering the electronic system. I'm starting the promise process. Mr. Erkan Aydın...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0010par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. I regret the change in the structure of the Turkish Armed Forces. (TSK should be free of politics.) Now it is put into the center of one-sided politics. With the arrangement, the President and the Prime Minister will be able to give direct orders to the commanders of the forces. So, where's the Chief of Staff? He's jumping. After this arrangement, the Chief of Staff becomes a high-ranking headquarters officer. Harp Academys are being shut down, replaced by National Defense University. The president's throwing the president. All in all, the army is literally in the middle of politics. Let's take the army out of politics. The army is put in the middle of politics. In the army, especially when promotions are in the hands of GERPs, political power, especially after a coup attempt, may be doing so as a reflex to prevent that. However, this time, the army has literally entered into the direction of whoever comes to power, which is going to be a very troubling situation, I say, with respect.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0011par0068	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0012par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, after considering the coup attempt, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been interviewing an Italian television station, will stop dealing with my son and let Italian authorities deal with his own mafia after considering the investigation launched against his son Bilal Erdogan in Italy. Such a memorial of the president's son, and such a statement, has hurt our nation and humbled its head. By the way, at jet speed, Istanbul 9. The Court of Peace has ruled a ban on access to Bilal Erdogan's report on the money investigation in Italy. It is important that the broadcast ban is imposed on the news and that the issue in Italy is the claim to money laundering. On the other hand, the AKP insists on passing a new law on money laundering from parliament. All these events must be considered and the public must be informed immediately.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0013par0073	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0014par0075	Mr. President, some journalists have been taken into custody in Adana, some of whom have been arrested, and three local newspapers and one websites have been shut down following the July 15 coup attempt. Owners are being tried without arrest, but Adana Haber, Adana Media and Mediterranean Turkish newspapers and special news01. A website called comίn has been shut down, all assets in newspapers have been seized, even the yellow press cards the newspaper employees have worked so hard to cancel. Although their crimes are not stable, the closure of newspapers and websites should be prevented from being taken away from their owners and press workers' livelihoods. The release of yellow press cards should also be made for press members whose cards have been canceled because they work in newspapers that have no connection to the events, have no interest, not even been called into testimony by law enforcement, which are only under investigation. He wishes that the procedures under the State of Emergency be carried out within the rule of law, that operations...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0013par0078	Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0015par0080	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have turned to revenge, unfortunately, following the dismissal of the July 15 coup against democracy and secularism. A witch hunt has been launched against the opposition. Children of our CHP mayors, members of our youth branches, officers of KESK and KAMU-İŞ, Alevis, leftists, artists are being detained, employees are being laid off. The intent to bring hypocrisy into all parts of society that met against the coup has been revealed. If the AKP government continues to act out of vengeance, it will not be long, unfortunately, in the political parties and in the community. I respectfully salute the General Assembly, saying that the witch hunt against those who had nothing to do with the coup must be abandoned immediately.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0013par0082	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0016par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. We don't have enough time to deal with some vital issues in the busy Turkey agenda. That's one of the things about drugs. Studies show that the age of addictive substance use has dropped to nine hundred and eighty-eight percent between 2007 and 15 years. A young man in our Tomarza county recently died using synthetic drugs. May God have mercy on our young man, and my condolences to his relatives. The families say that the poison merchants who are trying to kill our young are not selling, but drinking. In this context, I'd like to ask Mr. Home Secretary: I'm a drinker. Are the investigations on those who say "I'm a drinker" well enough? There's a fact that experts who are interested underline the fact that every drug user is also a dealer. That's why people who use drugs in the fight against drugs have to be severely punished like drug traffickers.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0017par0088	Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0018par0090	Thank you. I apologize for all the criticism I've done to the AKP people for 14 years. Ergenekon, during the sledgehammer, I went door to door to apologize for a lot of things in the referendum. Turns out you don't run the country. Now, you apologize, and we were talking about 14 years of arrogance here until July 15th, but we weren't in power. Say, we thought we were in power. Say, we weren't even apprentices. Say, opposition can't produce two sheep. But it turns out we didn't. Say, "Sorry, and quit."
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0017par0092	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0019par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Prime Minister: The emergency decision was made on July 20, 2016. Many laws have been issued today. First of all, these decrees are being implemented in a position that has exceeded its purpose, that has changed the structure of the state, that is contrary to our Constitution. According to the latest joke of our Constitution Article 121, the state of emergency may issue decrees on the matters which the state of emergency has made necessary. These decrees are published in the official newspaper and submitted to the approval of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the same day. These decrees for ratification of parliament should be discussed within 30 days according to the Civil Code, but ten days have passed since the first amendment passed. So when do you intend to submit the decrees of this law to Parliament's approval without further delay? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0020par0097	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0021par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Today they declared a traitor, and those who were in the dirty alliance yesterday launched a new witch hunt using the July 15 coup attempt as an excuse. The witch hunt, launched by the State of Emergency opportunist, continues to target social democrats, revolutionary youths, artists, academics, who have nothing to do with the terrorist organization. Youth members of the Republican People's Party have been taken into custody after the coup attempt on social media. On the one hand, you're going to brag about withdrawing insulting cases, and on the other hand, you're going to take young people who are using their critical rights into custody on the basis of social media sharing. Arresting any member of the Republican People's Party youth organization on the grounds of community membership is nothing more than covering up the responsibility of their dirty alliance in the past. This witch hunt that has begun must be stopped immediately and our young people who exercise their democratic rights must be released. Turkey's largest...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0020par0102	Mr. Bachelor...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0022par0104	Mr. President, about a month before that, there was an election at Gaziantep University for presidential candidates and Ali Gür took first place with 126 votes. Note Mehtap Yilmaz, a crypto parallelist writer for a Gaziantep daily newspaper, and his wife Ali Gür. I warn you later -- Ali Gür, who later made the Diyarbakır imam of the parallel structure, tries to become president in Gaziantep. O YÖK, don't you dare! He's made a few shares. Later recently, on Monday, Mr. President appointed Ali Georgian as president. Now, I'm asking, who's right, Ghaziantep MP or the President? Who's been misled? Could this example be an example of humans being subjected to a witch hunt called the Fethullahist? Does the government have an explanation for this matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0020par0106	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0023par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Some time ago, only 25-year-olds' mandatory public health insurance debts were expunged, but millions of non-employees, over 25 years of age, are still owed millions of dollars expected to pay. Almost all of the reactions of GSS victims on social media are common to them, whether they come or take what we have, but we can't pay such an unfair debt, they say. This problem cannot be solved by postponing, constructing, instalment or decoupling the debt, which is normally paid as a citizen's fee for the unemployed. Why doesn't the government plan to completely eliminate debtion from this kind of weather? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0024par0111	Mr. Sibel Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0025par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. On 16 December 2013, Turkey signed a road map for a re-enactment agreement with the European Union and visa exemption. All reports published by the European Union Commission on the visa exemption process clearly recommended that Turkey adopt the definition of terrorism in line with the European Union's acquisitor. They proposed 72 substances. This rumor just came out, it didn't exist. Where did these come from? The changes that Mr. President called 72 articles are the changes that Turkey must fulfil according to the agreement signed at a ceremony attended by them. In order for this process to succeed, it is also important that our commitments to the agreement be fulfilled fully and on time. We're in a process where the current government is incoherent in the European Union process and away from our European Union achievements, and the loser is Turkey, and our citizens.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0024par0115	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0026par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Until the day of the coup attempt, has the problem been only tolerated by one congregation, or are other congregations being tolerated at this time? Is there any other congregation organizations that are now deceiving power? Is he doing any work on this, MIT? It was one of the organizations that had been tolerated earlier, unfortunately El Nusra and ISIS, and we all paid the price as a community. I invite you to be vigilant about this because there are many cheaters, and it is our duty to warn our friends. Today, the State of the Extraordinary Religion has gathered, and this is the State of the Extraordinary Religion, that my Lord may forgive us, and my people may forgive us. It has turned into a sin at the point. You know, there's no confession in muslimism. If there are those who admit and confess to these crimes, they must be judged in front of the state of law, in which case the state of law must do what is necessary. In Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, there are many...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0027par0122	Mr. Turkmen...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0028par0124	Mr. President, thank you. It is known that 150,000 people were placed in public in the years following the results of the general talent and general cultural examinations in the 2010 KPSS. There's also a verdict at this time that this test has been cancelled. What, though, will be the fate of government officials who have successfully settled in public only if the administration has caused questions to be stolen? Will the concerned ministers, especially the Prime Minister, make a statement about this? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0029par0127	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0030par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. I visited our village in Ulukışla district of Niğde Province, Dardur, Badger, Emir, Kilen, Beyeğal. In these villages, cherry is an important source of livelihood. This year, the cherry has not made the manufacturer's face smile, it has to sell for its cost, and sometimes it has to give the product under its cost. The most beautiful cherries of our country grow in this region. Over 15,000 tons of cherries are being harvested, and there is no place to sell them but the manufacturer. Therefore, it is expected to establish integrated facilities in the region that will process cherries, support the manufacturer and maintain the cherry maker. The cherry maker remains in the middle and has a great deal of trouble when the merchant is withdrawn from the market. In this context, it is also necessary to support the manufacturer for the troubled cherry. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0031par0132	Mr. Durmaz...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0032par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. With a regulation issued three years ago, the Ministry of National Education has sent students from private schools in the country and senior high school members of certain congregations abroad for about three years, and after studying abroad for a year, they placed them in universities in our country without exams. Is there a measure taken by the Ministry of National Education against the inequality of opportunities in education and teaching? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0033par0137	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who are demanding a word. The first word is Mr. Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0034par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Our country is surrounded by terrorist organizations. On the one hand, the PKK's attacks continue, while the opposition is being fought. After the coup attempt on July 15, 24 of our officers and 17 of our soldiers were killed in the fight against terrorism. Terrorist organizations are lining up, continuing their bloody attacks. We need to make our will clear against any kind of terror. It must not be forgotten that fighting terrorism is a national case. We must raise our flag with dignity in Istanbul, Ankara, and many of our country's urban squares, while our glorious flag is flying in the mountains, in the plains, in the countryside. Whether it's the PKK or ISIS, the fight against terrorism must continue uninterrupted and decisively until the last terrorist surrender. One of the things that comes up after the July 15 coup attempt is the weakness of intelligence. While learning about the coup attempt from his brother-in-law, the Prime Minister, both pointed to intelligence weakness. I've once pointed out from these platforms that intelligence weakness actually stems from a weakness of governance. The Prime Minister confirmed our view in his speech on a television show he attended yesterday. The statement used by the Prime Minister is as follows. I asked the Undersecretary of MIT, how come the Prime Minister doesn't know, the President doesn't know? He couldn't answer that, he didn't say anything. There's no explanation for why it wasn't delivered to me or to our president. And this person is the head of national intelligence.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0035par0147	I'll turn on your microphone. Finish your words, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0034par0149	Why is he still on duty? In response, the Prime Minister says: "There is a priority for us. " But if this person has not done his job, what work will you continue? Then the citizens will ask the question: "Why are you handing over 60,000 civil servants while the chief responsible continue their duties? Our advice to the Prime Minister is that they must take steps to eliminate the weaknesses of the administration that lead to intelligence weakness. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0036par0152	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0037par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the AKP government has taken action in order to ensure that the province of Cizre and Turkey, which has been destroyed by curfews and blockades in the past year, is the district of Hakkari and Şırnak. As of yesterday, in the bill submitted to Parliament, we have learned that Hakkari and Şırnak counties are also wanted to be transformed into districts, with the districts of Turkey and Turkey. First of all, we want to say that we have condemned and found that decision made by the AKP government from the centre and imposed on the public, which is imposed on the people of the region without their opinion. Such vital decisions regarding a city must be consulted with the public, civil society organisations, political parties there. All other ways and methods are antidemocratic, authoritarian, illegitimate. It is clear that the districts of Cizre and Yüksekova are not also intended for economic, social and political development, but for the full implementation of security and military policies. Thus, the arrangement points out the search for a new militantization in each of the four settlements, which will stimulate the total delusions of security. We would like to express that this arrangement, where the goal of democratic peace and economic development has been handed over to a sense of security, will not be of any benefit or benefit to our people. Instead of this arrangement, it would be appropriate for Hakkari and Şırnak to remain a province, with an arrangement that precludes peace, democracy and economic development, to be restored to the province's status in order to revive the border trade, which would also be a very important border trade centers for Turkey and Cizre.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0038par0160	I'm going to turn on your microphone and finish your words, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0037par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. We need to figure this out. After the destruction and plundering policies of Hakkari and Şırnak, we will never allow them to be asked to end like this. I'd like to inform the AKP authorities that we have a very serious case of inflation in our people there as well. Of course, Mr. President, today is August 3, 2016, two years ago, a massacre was committed to the people of Ezidi to shame them. Once again, we condemn the people of Ezidi, who have been subjected to genocide and genocide, who have been ordered by the hands of ISIS gangs, by the decree of seventy-two massacres throughout history. We want to express that we are the Democratic Party of Peoples, as well as the epic struggle of the Ezidi people against ISIS gangs. About that... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...with a bill submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we demand that Parliament define these massacres against the oppressors as genocide. I'd like to say that we consider it a great misfortune in the history of this Parliament that the motion for research we submitted yesterday was not accepted. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0039par0167	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I also condemn the slaughter of Ezidi three years ago in the Shengal. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0040par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. On the evening of July 15th, when we look at the world's political close history, the coupters use the ball, the tank, the plane, the gun to make the impact. If you're in control of him, to prevent him, you're against the police, the soldiers, the other forces. But it determines whether the coup will be successful, whether or not a social agreement has occurred against the coup, and if the very broad parts of society in that country stand next to democracy, there's no way they can succeed, no matter how powerful the weapons in their hands, no matter how blackened their conscience. It's a pride for our country, for all of us in Turkey, for all the political parties. And what's going to reverse that is to turn what happened in the coup into an opportunity, to mediate the coup for political purposes, as if the list of opponents standing on one side and being eliminated at the first opportunity was to be exposed after the coup, handing them out of their jobs, putting a coupe on everyone, all the opposition factions. 667. Several actors and directors serving at Istanbul Metropolitan City Theatres have been suspended as of yesterday, under the rule of the Law. We have Mahperi Mertoglu, Irem Arslan, Arda Aydın, Director Ragıp Yavuz, Şeş Erbulak, Kemal Kocavuk, and 19 other names that have been taken with them. These names, known for their identities in favour of labor and democracy, are not possible to be identified in such a way, to be associated with the FTÖ organisation...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0041par0178	I'm going to turn on your microphone and finish your words, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0040par0179	... to label these precious theater artists in this way, to put them out of business, to do good, to rebuild the so-called state, or to rebuild the so-called state, and to have nothing to do with art, to clearly become a witch hunt, to harm, to weaken, and to help the coupgers in the final synthesis. In this regard, I invite Parliament to be sensitive, and I invite the ruling party group to give necessary warnings and sanctions against the executive body that is using the NGOs as law enforcement powers that have been taken away from us. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0041par0181	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Turan, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0042par0184	Mr. President, dear friends, July 15th, you know, has become a legacy of Turkey's history. Our people made a date when they were alive. A hundred years ago, just as our nation didn't hand over our country to the invaders, it stood up to the same belief that July 15th was occupied and did its due. In a way that not even the enemy armies would do in a military uniform, they bombed our Veterans Assembly, our presidential community, the home of the nation, our Chief of Staff. However, a nation wrote almost epicly and repelled this action. As a country, leaving our political differences aside, we met in the common denominator, and all political parties declared our joint decision on the coup. We have citizens in the square who have been on democracy watch for days, we have friends. I'd like to greet our brothers who are on this watch in all the squares. Of course, the PKK continued to take lives in the process. On Monday, six of our police officers were killed in Bingley. I ask God's mercy to our citizens who have been martyred in the face of couptic terrorists, and to our friends who have been killed in the face of the PKK, and to our soldiers, and to our nation's heads. In the same way, I would like to point out that the group's vice presidents have warned us that age burns as well as law? Has there been a witch hunt? Some concerns have been raised. We want to fight the coupgers very clearly, very concretely, so that no one gets extra nose bleeds, extra rights are born. If there's a mistake, it'll be revised. However, given the intensity of the current blow, the magnitude of the tribulation, I think we should be a little more understanding about it and keep justice together. In the work done, once again, if there's a mistake, it'll be corrected, it'll have to be fixed. But we know that compassion in the wolf is cruelty to the lamb. So let's consider a mistake together if there is one. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0043par0188	Thank you, Mr. Turan. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our country's tourism has suffered serious injuries due to recent negative conditions. Both economic conditions, tensions stemming from foreign policy, and acts of terrorism have hit our country's tourism. In particular, the number of tourists from abroad has been severely reduced. After the fall of the Russian fighter, Russia's attitude has reduced the number of Russian tourists coming to our country. It is observed that this problem will continue to increase in the next process. However, problems in the field of tourism are far more than that. In Ankara, terrorist attacks and similar acts of terrorism in the heart of the capital create the perception of security weakness in our country in foreign tourists. Emigrants from other countries, mainly from Syria, and the country's tourism bill for human tragedies in the Aegean Sea. Tourism and culture fields are what are described as "soft power" in developed countries and have a huge contribution to the image of the country. Our country is in desperate need of this soft power. It is also true that tourism is a serious business in our country. Although our country has been trying to overcome these problems with the efforts of those operating in the tourism sector, the situation has come to a point where the state will have to take matters into its own hands. It is seen how important all these conditions that have affected our country's tourism are to be neutralized and to be able to revitalize our tourism, given both the employment it will provide and the reputation it will bring to our country. In order to revive our tourism and eliminate negativity, we demand that Parliament be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Denizli]] [[Manisa]] 5) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 10) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] 11) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] 13) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] 17) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Sinop]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 98, 104 and 105, in order to investigate the size of the water and environmental pollution caused by waste fats and to determine the measures that can be taken in this regard. [[Edirne]] [[Ardahan]] [[Mersin]] 4) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Hatay]] [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Burdur]] [[Artvin]] [[Sivas]] [[Scholarship]] 21) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Antalya]] Our country consumes 1,500,000 tonnes of herbal oil annually. The consumption of each person is 20 kilograms, from which 350,000 tonnes of waste per year are made of oil. The average amount of waste oil can be collected in Turkey based on the opinion of herbal oil industrialists, but only 21,000 tonnes of waste oil can be collected in our country, and the remaining unassembled waste oils continue to contaminate our seas and streams. There are 17 million,500,000 households in our country, and the average household spills 20 kilograms of waste oil per year, polluting seas and streams. Domestic waste is about 25% of wastewater pollution. Turkey's lands, lakes and streams face a serious threat of contamination. This contamination threatens drinking water and ecosystems. Also, because the Ministry of Agriculture does not have enough control, this contamination has a serious impact on human health. The oils used repeatedly for lack of sufficient control increase the number of carcinogenic substances, and people who consume these fats see more cases of colon and stomach cancer. To avoid causing this, fry fats must be used twice at most and then withdraw from consumption. Seeing these threats, the European Union (EU) has issued its 2003/30 directive aimed at preventing environmental pollution by converting domestic waste oils into biofuels. Under this directive, domestic waste fats were not to be poured into water and soil, it was envisioned to be used by turning it into biological fuels, and it was required for all EU countries to add at least 5.75 per cent of plant waste oil, raw oils and animal waste oil to fossil fuels produced by December 31, 2005, and to remove these oils without damaging the environment. According to EU Commission data dated January 10, 2007, 80 per cent of biodiesel and 20 per cent bioethhanol in EU member states. The most striking example stands out in Germany. Germany's legal change in June 15, 2009 has increased to 6.25 per cent, while its mixing target for 2020 has been targeted at 12 per cent. As European countries move towards such goals, no initiative has been made in Turkey, no regulation has been made by the government. Despite the fact that a draft notice has been suspended, an obligation to mix at a very small rate of 0.1 per cent -- a thousandths -- there has been no measures taken to combat pollution by assessing waste fats. As it is known, Article 56 of the Constitution states that everyone has the right to live in a clean environment, and the same clause gives the government the duty of protecting the environment. Parliamental research is required in Turkey to investigate the size of water and environmental pollution caused by waste fats and to determine the measures that can be taken in this regard. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The production and sale of counterfeit alcohol has become increasingly common in our country in recent years, causing serious injuries and deaths. Over the past five years, more than 100 of our citizens have died due to the consumption of counterfeit alcohol. Since last October, in many of our provinces, especially Istanbul and İzmir, more than 30 have lost their lives due to the use of false liquor, while many of our citizens have suffered serious dysfunctions, particularly visual loss. Some of those who use fake liquor deliberately use it, but some of our citizens are using it by being misled that it's a different kind that comes cheap from Bulgaria or other countries. The market price of a 70-cc-caliber bottle ranges between $65 and 75 euros, while the same amount of counterfeit production is around $10. Due to heavy increases in alcohol products in recent years, citizens are inclined to use these drinks, believing false statements that they have been brought from other countries or in some cases, knowing that they are false. Although the sale of ethyl alcohol, which is used in the production of almost all alcohol, is illegal in places without a liquor license, those who produce counterfeit alcohol are importing and producing ethanol from countries such as Bulgaria and Romania. Methyl alcohol, which is less expensive to reduce costs, is also used in distilled alcohol production, while at times methyl alcohol is used directly instead of ethanol, which results in deaths in methanol in methyl alcohol. Even illegal production is conducted at liquor stores in some areas, as they call it, under the stairs. There may be a lack of control in the import of ethanol used in manufacturing and in order to determine the places where the production of counterfeit alcohol is being produced, which causes the loss of our citizens' lives and the loss of serious functions. In this regard, audits must be increased and precautionary. Due to the violation of every citizen's right to secure trade, there is a loss of life and health, as well as economic loss of both legal liquor manufacturers and the state's tax loss due to the sale of counterfeit liquor. For all these reasons, the fabrication and sale of fake liquor and the death and injury caused by which we investigate and propose and establish and propose the establishment of the Parliament's research commission according to Articles 104, 105, of the Articles of the Constitution of the 98, and 105, in order to determine negligence, the effective and deterrent measures against the production of counterfeit alcohol, and to implement them. [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Ankara]] 6) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Isparta]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 17) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] 18) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 22) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Sinop]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday 03/08/2016 (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 26 July 2016, Mr. Burcu Çelik Özkan and his friends gave 2500 rows no. lu has been suggested that the parliamentary inquiry motion, which was submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to be investigated in all dimensions of "existent rights violations that have reached serious dimensions and particularly the State of Emergency in their prisons" be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and read in presentations Wednesday (2003/08/2016). On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal and against it, I will make a pledge to four members of parliament. In his favour, the first say belongs to Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş. Here you go, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0044par0376	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today is the second anniversary of the Shengal massacre, the massacre of Ezidi. On August 3, 2014, another major massacre and genocide were signed. Once again, I'd like to condemn you on this occasion. Also, today is August 3rd, International Action Day Against Women's Breakdown and Genocide, also due to genocide against the oppressed. I'd like to greet this day of action. Millions of women around the world are in the field today against this genocide day, and I salute your actions. I also want to remind you that the European Parliament described the massacres against the oppressed as genocide, but unfortunately, our motion yesterday did not pass through our Parliament. Another shame, another shame, has been signed by the Turkish Grand National Assembly in the face of the European Parliament's decision. Dear lawmakers, we live in a state of emergency. Yes, when the State of Emergency was declared, we said a lot of things and gave warnings in our talks on behalf of our party here. Despite the statement that this State is an OHL brought to the government, we also expressed our wishes that it should be so, and we also said that the development in the opposite direction would be a sign of a great deal of hardship, and unfortunately, we were not wrong. Today, all four sides of Turkey are a place of fire. In the name of combating coupters, everyone is targeted -- his doctor, theatre artist, public worker, student, as a whole, his extraordinary state, in fact, goes on at all speeds, not based on the reasons and purposes of the Constitution, and one of the biggest areas of this is the prisons, unfortunately. You know, in prisons, for the first time, 30 days of detention has already been put before it, and we all know from our historical experience that torture means protection, and in the past few days, we're sorry to say that torture has been legalized in television, newspapers, all media organs again, that torture images have been served with great pride, and we really want to express once again that torture is a human crime, no matter who it is, that torture should not be tolerated. Two young people currently on hunger strike in Urbana have been in custody for the 12th day today, and they are being tortured at the hours of my conversation, and even though they are on hunger strike, they are not even given sugar; I just wanted to tell you as an example. On the other hand, what happened in prison? We've got some serious complaints. The phone rights have been reduced to one in 15 days, the right to write a third opinionist has been revoked, only close ones can be interviewed in the first degree, the right to defend and the right to counsel has been contained. While lawyers normally have an unlimited right to meet, the Penal Code states that the sentence is now limited between 9:00 and 5:00 p.m. and the 30-minute limit has been set. Again, transfers and exiles continue all over Turkey because there is no room for coupkers and because the prisons are packed. Newspapers, magazines, books, television restrictions are being continued at all speeds. Certain television channels were removed from the guides. Again, many cleaning vehicles are confiscated, shopping from canteens is restricted, and arbitrary disciplinary fines are being carried out at all speeds. For example, in the cities where curfews -- which is still one of them -- right now, I just found out that families are waiting for entry and not being picked up under 45 degrees of heat. Again, sick prisoners are another gangrenous issue. Although patients who are sick in the Sibel Cross person are very vulnerable to the public, the sick prisoners are now intentionally and willingly, in fact, being left to die under the supervision and supervision of the state, and are being killed. It's really no different than murder. The absence of treatment or treatment of sick prisoners there is certainly another version of the state's killing of people. Sincan No. 1 F Type-type Prison, for example, is among the information that there are serious problems in the Women's Closed Prison, where they are trapped in two-person, three-person cells, sometimes in other prisons, where he finds 15-20. Again, it is imposed on military drinking, dear friends, valued lawmakers. That's what would've happened if it had been a full blow. On September 12th, prisoners and prisoners were forced to drink in the military. Right now, the prisoners are forced to cross the wall with their faces facing each other in prisons. I mean, that's one of the typical practices of times of impact. A coup was suppressed, but another coup is at its full pace in Turkey. We've got a lot of complaints about that, so I'll tell you some of that. Again -- but I'm not in it -- our MPs, Mr. Besime Konca and Ayþe Acar Başaran -- went to Tarosus Prison last week. Karataş Prison has been closed, all of the women have been taken to Tarsus, and even when the MPs have been there, they have not been allowed to talk to the administration, and they have been reluctantly rejected from the prison gate. After the curfew in Diyarbakır Type D Prison, Heja Algan has been arrested -- still in 6 neighborhoods -- 75 civilians have been detained and lost their right eye in torture, and although the risk of losing their left eye remains, Ankara is not being transferred and waiting to be transferred. Malatya Type E Prison is faster, the lawyer has a camera and a tape recorder in the visual room. The attorney's privacy, the privacy of counsel, the obligation to keep secrets, and the law of law are completely voided. Again, the issue that appeared in the press last week at Bakırköy Type L Prison, which we have closely followed, really shows the degree of oasis. We live in Turkey where even lawyers are beaten and left in a field in the middle of the night. Yeah, that looks like a lawyer, dear friends. He's going to prison, and he's not allowed to talk to his clients. One of two lawyers. And after these lawyer friends were not allowed to make an opinion, we would not see each other and we would not leave the prison. They reacted. The gendarmes were then called and forced to arrest lawyers, and their vehicle was thrown out into a field outside the prison. And when we call the General Manager of Punishment and Inquisitions, we are given no fire, no exile, no torture, all these allegations are baseless. In this case, I assure you, we have a lot of examples, not just examples. For example, there's been a very serious systematic torture in the Urban TEM branch for months. The State of Emergency started ahead of time, and now it's continuing to fold. Sexual torture -- let me be sad to say -- rape, raping with a baton, amongst the most serious applications we've ever received. And in Sincan Type F Prison and many other prisons, the same treatments, tortures and pressures continue at all speeds in very serious exiles and transfers. And right now, a naked search, again, is one of the routines that's been done. Naked search is unacceptable either according to the rules of the ECHR or according to international law, according to basic rights and freedoms, but this is completely a routine and is intended to break the will of prisoners and prisoners in prisons. Again, 33 political women imprisoned at the Adana Karataş Closed Prison, where I'm acting, were transferred to another prison, with the same methods, with the same pressure, to Tarsus, where there is still no communication. Generally and briefly, I'd like to say that the State of Emergency has arrived in the first prisons and detention. As it narrows down all living spaces, under the supervision and supervision of the state, the greatest methods of oppression and torture have been carried out in the area where it is responsible for its life, health, and all its needs. This has nothing to do with the Constitution 121 and 122. The State of Emergency is not part of the cause and purpose of this. Therefore, we demand that these practices be stopped as soon as possible against these crimes against the prisoners and the prisoners, and we ask for the acceptance of our research motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0045par0391	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. Erkan Akçay, Manisa MP against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0046par0395	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on HDP's group proposal. I salute you all. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we are in the midst of extraordinary developments since the evening of July 15th, and these extraordinary developments have shown its impact almost every day, and these high tensions and tensions, caused by July 15th, have covered almost every aspect of life. The coup attempt revealed that the perpetrator of the Fethullahci terrorist organization, the construction of the state in public institutions and institutions, in the economy, in civil society, has surrounded the state like a ur. It's our job to clean this up. When the government came to the Parliament for approval under the State of Emergency, we carried out this mission as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As a responsibility to history and to our nation, we have authorized the government to clean up the terrorist organization and its organisations. While our country was being targeted by a terrorist organization called the ▪, it was declared a state of emergency for the government to fight terrorism, especially to catch the coupgers more easily until the threat of a coup is over. As much as we've seen steps taken in this direction in the three laws issued after the State of Emergency, I'd like to make it clear that we find the arrangements for the institutional structure of the state unplanned, timeless and inappropriate. First, I would like to remind you that according to Article 120 of the Constitution, the state of emergency law can be declared for six months, and if necessary, the authority to extend it is granted by the Parliament, and that the State of Emergency law is granted for a period of three months, and that the State of Emergency and the State of Emergency regulations must be limited to the State of Emergency. The arrangements to be made must be limited to the period of the State of Emergency, and then the regular order must be made. The most important of these arrangements are the arrangements for the Turkish Armed Forces. I would like to first remind you of the position and position of the Turkish nation in preventing the July 15 coup attempt. Our nation has held democracy and national will in the streets, in the squares. Therefore, we boast to each and every member of the Turkish nation. However, by the evening of July 15th, we also have the obligation to read the pulse of the squares correctly. The Turkish nation has landed in the squares for its achievements on April 23, 1920, October 29, 1923, because the goal of the coup attempt is the presence of the Republic of Turkey, the integrity of the nation. From July 15th, our citizens have enjoyed the gains of the Salvation War in the squares, the founding will, and the national will. Ninety-six years ago, for the freedom and sovereignty we won in a glorious battle, our nation has shown itself only with a glorious resistance. Therefore, it would be futile to try to harvest a number of actual situations from the squares, such as other intentions or presidentialities, because there is no way of understanding in the squares that wants to run the state as an anonymous company, and there is no way for sub-stairs, no way for formal relations in public administration. The voice from the squares is you, the state, not you. I am the state, and I am the power. Therefore, there is no new Turkey in the squares, there is a great Turkish country. There's no legitimacy and no search for personal and arbitrary governance in the squares. What do our people want, what do the squares want? It says: "Fight with all kinds of terror, keep me safe, bring peace, peace, prosperity, and stability to our country. Deliver us from the scourge of terror. This effort is in the government, the authority and the responsibility. We offer all kinds of contributions as Congress in the fight against terrorism. You said, "We're going to clean the swamp, we're going to dry the swamp." We said, "Yes." So, what's the government doing? We see with regret that a personal administration was attempted to be built by the anti-terrorism cover. Wasn't the road to the July 15 initiative paved with this understanding of governance? Have you ever considered the part of the government's administration on the night of July 15th with groups of interests, congregations, parallel structures, not institutions and rules? Dear MPs, the target of the July 15 coup attempt is all Turkey. The Turkish state's integrity, the Turkish nation's unity, the integrity of our country has been targeted. The President is not the sole target of the coup attempt. If you think about it like that, you're wrong, and you're wrong about the diagnosis. If you misdiagnosed the diagnosis, it's impossible to find the proper treatment. We defend democracy, we seek reconciliation. However, while restructuring institutions, both the national will and the Parliament have been disabled. Why do you insist on old mistakes when the spirit of social reconciliation has caught up with you? Reconstruction in the Turkish Armed Forces is a need. This need must not be reduced to an illegitimate line by the chosen method for changes. When the state is restructured, the national will must not be eliminated, democracy must not be suspended. Analyzing the changes will require a live, active, and concrete operation of the consultation mechanism. Turkish Armed Forces are the apple of the eye of the Turkish nation. For centuries, tradition and principles that have been formed and mature should not be tolerated, not dealt with like lint cotton. The solution must be achieved with rational, scientific, negotiating, and compromise. Democracy is not only the chest and the majority; democracy is also the culture of negotiation and reconciliation. Away from this culture, the President of the General Staff is being linked to the Ministry of National Defence by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. This national defense leg arrangement was carried out by a decree of the law. Now, the fight against the State of Emergency, which allowed the decision to be passed in this law, has been brought forward. The arrangements need to be dealt with by the circumstances that have caused the coup. You want to tie the Joint Chiefs to the President for this? Do you think by doing so, there will be certain results in the fight against the coup? How do we eliminate the problems that will arise in the chain of command? How will you resolve the opening of the chain of command that will appear in the future if the president and the government are from different political views? Although it has cheered us up from the same party in the last few years, we should all remember how much the prime ministers and presidents and some ministers have gone wrong. Why don't you consider the threats that may arise tomorrow, the risks of war, of close war? And the Turkish Armed Forces' command-level hierarchy is being damaged. Now, the president of the MIT wants to be connected. I'd like to transfer a souvenir. There was an MIT regional president in a province where we served in the past. When we were chatting in the protocol, I asked him, "Where do you belong?" He answered, "We belong directly to God." Now, why don't you connect your allegiance to the law, to the law, to the Republic of Turkey, to the President of an institution that doesn't feel or express it that way? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Besides, the president's aides also appeared on July 15th. These issues need to be considered and discussed and discussed very carefully. With these thoughts, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0047par0410	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Peoples' Democratic Party Group's proposal is in favour of Senal Sarıhan, Ankara MP. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0048par0414	Dear President, fellow clerks, fellow writers, members of the press, and my dear fellow lawmakers, both our friends -- our friend Meral and our friend Erkan -- have expressed their views on this issue, and Ms. Coral has made a very broad assessment of the situation in which prisons are today. Before I do this much again, what the legal system says, what should be the conditions in prison in front of the law, and I will briefly express my views on them. I'd like to say that I agree with the opinion of our Deputy Erkan that the state of emergency should act in accordance with the law. In any case, we must have prisons, prisoners, and prisoners under the protection of the law that exists. What are the arrangements in the international plan that the new provisions of the state of emergency should not be contrary to basic human rights, and what do they mean in summary or in essence? I'll simply give them their names. The rules of the United Nations, referred to as Asgarial Rules for Corrections of Prisons, are dated 1977. The principles of Medical Ethics of Torture and other Cruelties, Inhuman or Disgraceful, or Punishment Protection of Health personnel and, in particular, Doctors' Duty, are dated 1982. The following rules are around 1988, 1990. For example, there are principles for the corrections of prisoners, which are called basic principles, which quotes the word "instruction" because, basically, people who are held, taken into custody or taken into prison have basic rights. Now, in regard to these rights, the 1988 principles, which are based on the principle of the Protection of Persons held or imprisoned in any form, are the basis of all laws. What's he gonna say? He puts human treatment as a condition: act in accordance with the law, rights restraining order, rights to the judiciary, ban on discrimination, ban on torture, keep the prisoner separate, keep him in accordance with the law, keep him in line with the law, keep him in line with the law, the right to state his right to rights, the family's information, the aid of counsel, the condition of contact with the lawyer, to keep him close to residence, and not force him to confess. Now, let's look at the arrangement in our own internal law. The law on the execution of punishment and security measures is the name of the law that regulates the conditions of our prisons. Here, justice is the basis of the principles established in execution as the basic principle. The basic principle is the principle of justice, which is the principle of fairness. The safety principle (J) is organized in jokes and so the measures taken in order to ensure safety in prison can be assessed in harmony with the principle of fair conduct. Now, I would like to briefly read how the basic principle of execution is shaped in our Law Against the Execution of Punishment and Security. It is said that all of these rules apply, regardless of race, language, religion, sect, nationality, color, gender, birth, philosophical belief, national or social origin or political or other ideas and economic powers and other social positions, and no one is allowed to keep them separate. I've tried to make the general rules clear to you. Now, I would like to take a look at the situation we're in, which is the arrangements brought to us by Judgement 667. Prisons are evil, as Foucault put it -- I remember saying this before from here. Why is it evil to keep him in prison? Because it deprives you of your freedom. To prevent this evil, you protect man's basic rights and freedoms. It's just that you can afford to prevent him from harming society, or going to the border of his prison, which is the greatest evil, which is that you're trapped in a cage, which is the worst evil. Now, today, in prisons, especially recently, we had the rise of rights violations that we had expressed prior to July 15th. We have a big book and a report from our party on this issue, and we're talking about old and new reports, but today, along with the announcement of the state of emergency, a complete right to be found in prisons. A notary has to go to prison at least four times to get custody, a lawyer has to have power of attorney before he can make the call. Families have to wait for time to be able to meet their relatives, despite the fact that they've been brought from custody to the people inside, prisons, and that we've seen a lot of public torture. They're not allowed to talk to relatives except relatives in the first degree. Even the lawyers are barely able to meet, as I've just said. We face the state of the detention period that has already been extended to 30 days, bringing a regulation over the current legal system, and how prisons are filled with pressure, violence, abuse, torture, and the existence of the facts beyond the claim. But what happens now? In order to make room for people who have just been taken, who have been taken, before their claims are tied to evidence, who have already been brought in through rhetoric or some findings, the prisons that have already been overturned are being re-loaded with new transfers. For example, in the background yesterday, I spent time dealing with the prison director's office, and Mr. Silivri's warden didn't answer the phone for twenty-five minutes while I was on the phone, while 33 of our female friends, who had been transferred from Copperville Prison to Silivri Prison to Silivri Prison for minutes without paying attention. A deputy didn't manage to deal with a prison warden to get information about people's lives, at least to tell the people on the outside that they were unharmed, right. But I'm telling you, it's a positive thing, I called the General Manager of Punishment and Investigations, and he responded to me in a minute. The health or unhealthyness of your answer is a separate discussion. But I said, I asked our two lawyer friends not to meet, let them go in, let them interview, let them see their clients, let them inform the families of their children's safety, health that had been piled up in front of the door. I'm a friend of yours who personally witnessed the treatment of lawyers during detention. Now, the most important rights of prisoners and prisoners -- I've just read to you -- are the rights to defend, and the first phase of the rights of defense is the relationship with the lawyer. The lawyer's job will be blocked by any sign, any additional information brought to him by the prosecutor, the attorney's office, which, despite the law, has no access to his lawyer, despite the law of law, the main law, which we have, I don't tell stories about, how such a lawyer will defend a defendant's right of defense, how a suspect will be able to maintain his right of defense, how a suspect will be able to maintain his right of defense, how a lawyer, who is under suspicion, can't bring any additional information, will be held in a state-of-the-of-the-the-art position of defense, will be held in a state-of-the-the-the-of-the-the-the-art state-of-the-of-the-the-the-the-the-art State Act 667. Dear friends, we've written destans. It's a pity that if the myths that are written don't feed on law, feed on justice, feed on equality, feed on respect for human rights -- I've tried to express it from here for several times -- it soon becomes shaded, soon dark, and those myths turn into negative myths. The government, the rulers, must feed and raise the will of the people on the outside by protecting the people's freedoms and democratic rights, but let me be clear, this is not a state of emergency. It's a legitimate law that works and walks. My respects.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0049par0426	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. Fatma Benli, İstanbul MP against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Benli.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0050par0430	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise regarding HDP's group proposal. I hereby salute the High Council. As I want to emphasize first, there is no charge of torture, battery, abuse at the penal institutions for the period of imprisonment, between the 146 applications made to the Criminal and Prisoner Rights Subcommittee Commission or its subcommittee of Human Rights, both in applications to the Department of Justice and Investigation. Transports related to this or restrictions on the talks between prisoners and lawyers, restrictions on their talks with relatives, claims on transport. But whether we're in the usual era or in the extraordinary period, I want to repeat our strict rule that torture, abuse, cruel treatment will never, ever be accepted. There is no situation where Turkey can be replaced, stretched, treated slightly differently by the conditions it is in. Our basic principle is respect for the honor of being human, our basic principle is that people's presence in the execution institution is not an additional punishment. At this point, I specifically wanted to say that the main reason for the establishment of the parliamentary research commission beyond this is because the lawyer has been bounded by the provision of the state to the third degree to the third degree of the right to talk to the attorneys, to the second degree, to the second degree, to the second degree, to the arrest and to the lawyer's decision, to the first degree, to the first degree, to the first degree, to the first degree, to the first degree, to the husband, to the husband, to the father, to the husband, to the husband, to the husband, to the child, to the husband, to the husband, to the husband, to the husband, to the third degree. In fact, these allegations are not right to ban some newspapers or televisions or some publications. It's just that there are regulations in the decree that the right to call once a week is every 15 days. I'm going to express my views on this, but first we have to accept this. There's a decree on a rule of law issued during an extraordinary period, because it's not the usual period. That's why, on July 21st, our House decided to be extraordinary, because the House lived a disgrace that it didn't live under enemy occupation. Since we're not in an ordinary situation, this Congress has been bombed nine times, scanned by helicopters. The officers guarding this House now have bullets fired from helicopters in their arms, and a congressman has four gunshot wounds fired from a helicopter. Since we didn't have the usual time, I couldn't tell Aunt Esme, 81, whom I visited yesterday that her son, who had been shot in the back, was not actually in Russia as she thought he was. Since we do not live in an ordinary time, when we visit the wounded, the person who is with me has fallen, wounded, and I have been wounded. We do not have any answers for those who say, "I am wounded." So we have to talk to Halil Abraham's mother, his father, when he was 15 years old. Which I'm sure you guys have many more examples because we've given 238 martyrs, we've got 2,19191 wounded, and these aren't just the damage done by 246 tanks on the street that day or 35 planes, 37 helicopters -- the ones who ordered them to do it. We know that the fethullahist terrorist organization is a mechanism, and anyone with an organic connection in it can get this organization to do what they want. That's why we're facing an extraordinary situation, and since there's been an extraordinary situation, I'd like to make sure that interviews with the prisoners are recorded... Which is already in the Criminal Execution Act, in the interview of the prisoners and lawyers, because of the conditions in which their views should be taken into account if they are in the position of instructing the organisation, giving them passwords. We know that normally prisoners have a chance to meet their blood and blood relatives to the third degree, but when you count this, you have a chance to meet your sister-in-law, plus 3 people, which, at any rate, corresponds to 50 people. There's no way we can get prisoners to interview so many people in the actual situation because we already have 29,000 prisoners in prisons, 23,000 of which are under arrest, and these prisoners have the right to meet their lawyers every minute under normal circumstances, they have the right to go to court, to defend themselves. In a country with 23,000 prisoners, 13.500 prisoners were added as part of the extraordinary situation in which we lived. When you add 13,500 prisoners in two weeks, when you have them interview unlimited lawyers, you can't get them to meet people who are still in prison, 24 hours a day, when you've managed to get them to meet their third-degree health and blood relatives up to 50 people. If we don't make the transfers in prisons, if we can't make the transfers and at least proportion the hail in prisons, we're going to have to face a lot more of the problems of increasing existing prisons. The record of talks made in the court of law with the attorneys of the prisoners is strictly aimed at preventing re-encrypting crimes under orders and instructions, and they are not carried out by the prison administration. This is not under the jurisdiction of the Justice Department; this is a decision made by prosecutors. Besides, there's an order in the law that says that the counsel of the prisoners can be banned, that they can be banned by the magistrates, but I specifically asked, there is no restraining order taken by the magistrates in such a manner. Since there was only a coup attempt the following week was too many prisoners, there was an irregularity due to the arrival of 2,000 prisoners in a prison, but there is no problem at the point of meeting lawyers, which can now be detected in negotiations. The reason it's restricted is because of the sudden increase in numbers of 13,500 prisoners who suddenly arrive in prisons. Same with the phone call. If we allow each prisoner to meet once a week, as in the past, then we don't give that right to the other prisoners in prison. We need to bring a balance because we already have to provide the minimum living conditions to everyone, as a government, this is our mission; I've underlined it. Just because we're at the usual time or in extraordinary times doesn't mean we have to complicate the conditions in prisons. There's a problem in limiting the phones -- as I said -- there's only one condition in 15 days that has to be reduced to one, but there's no limiting communication, there's no obstruction of the letter. After July 15th, only 146 applications can be made to the Prison Subcommittee under the Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights, usually to review their applications, to be sent to us, even to the official authorities, show that their freedom of communication is not restricted. It is also said that limiting televisions is not an issue of restricting newspapers. If there are actual blockages in prisons, criminal execution institutions, it is the government's duty to investigate if there is an arbitrary treatment carried out by the prison administration in particular, outside the general rules. The United Nations Committee for the Protection of Torture is already doing constant inspections of prisons, prison execution institutions are already doing inspections, the Ministry of Justice is doing inspections. If we think that these are not enough, if we consider them routine, not taking into account any violations of rights, then it is possible for us to consider the violations of our rights, which have been carried out through this commission -- the subcommittee carried out with the participation of all parties -- in which the parliamentary Human Rights Review Commission has been conducted. At this point, I don't think Congress should be doing research because if we were living in a normal period right now, the 8-year-old Grand Atalay would only see tanks in cartoons on TV. But today we still have kids staying in hospitals because his car got run over under the tank. It's an extraordinary situation, and the only way to end this state of emergency is for all of us to come out of this difficult situation together, one way or another, with a unanimous vote. I salute the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0051par0443	Thank you, Mr. Benli.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0052par0444	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0053par0445	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0051par0446	Mr. Private has a request before you. Mr. Special, according to Article 60, I give you my word for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0054par0451	Mr. President, thank you very much. We've listened to Mr. Benli, but what should be said here... of course, they're here as parliamentarians, but what are Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Benli, Mr. Burcu Hanım from HDP, Mr. Burcu from Parliament today? All Turkey says: "There is torture in the prisons. " The saying is as bad as the fulfillment, and this Assembly has the Subcommittee of Prison Review. Right now, let's not accept the motion to investigate from here, let's not. Instead of being on the side of the debate, you're looking at this situation in prisons for all of us, and you're supposed to be presenting joint reports signed by four parties to this Parliament, so the Parliament's Human Rights Commission must be called to a meeting immediately, and if necessary, you'll need to step up the subcommittee immediately. Do it so that in 2016 the state of the Republic of Turkey will not face such an accusation with strong doubts. The mission is yours. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0055par0454	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0056par0455	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0055par0456	Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0056par0457	I want to talk about my position according to 60.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0055par0458	Here you go, and I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0056par0460	Mr. President, the speaker has made a general statement rather than respond to our words, but I would like to say that ours is not a claim, but a fact proven by letters, by lawyers. What will the Parliament's Human Rights Commission do today if they don't investigate torture? There are now 2,000, 3 thousand people who have just been arrested in prisons, but 10 thousands are under arrest for other crimes and prisoners, and there's heavy torture and oppression in prisons. Today, we have the ruling party's hesitation from the establishment of this research commission, and, in fact, we have the conclusion that they've embezzled our claims, and it's impossible to accept an answer by finding an excuse for everything. We want the ruling party to see the fact that hundreds of thousands of families are now waiting at the gates of prisons. I mean, it's a very bad prison situation. We can't justify torture by saying there's a State of Emergency, we can't ignore the rights of prisoners in prisons by saying there's an State of Emergency.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0057par0464	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0058par0469	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit01spe0057par0470	There's a demand for a number of decisions, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient in the vote. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0057par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 122nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will resume our talks with Justice and Budget Commission Report and the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the Advents of Justice and Development Party Group's President Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş and Isparta MP Sıyya Sadi Bilgiç. The commission is in place, the government is in place. In yesterday's merger, talks were completed on the entire Law Proposal 409, which was considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 6th article. Now I'm going to meet your demands on chapter one. I'll promise the political party groups first. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Samsun MP Erhan is the first to have a say in the political party group. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0059par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first part of Law Proposal 409. I salute the General Assembly. You know, this law proposal, as it is known, contains what we can call a pardon or a restructuring. Part one is more about these substances. The second part is that we've been opposed in the past few weeks and there's a clause -- it's been removed from that bill, but it's been brought back to life -- that will make Turkey a black money hell. I, of course, won't dwell on that part. I'd like to share with you my thoughts on part one. And I've just said, it's bringing up the restructuring of public receivables. In this case, there's almost all public interest. So it includes taxes, social security benefits, customs benefits, everything else that municipalities, state private administrations, will receive, water money, etcetera, etcetera. Other than that, it's possible to increase the matrix in income and institutional tax and added value tax. What this means is that if you increase your matrix by five years in a different rate, I, as the IRS, will not be able to account for you in any way as the Ministry of Finance. This is a clause in the form of the Treasury. Other than that, it involves fixing business records.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0060par0020	Mr. Master, one moment, sir... Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I invite the MPs out to chat. Let's end this hum, please. Go ahead, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0061par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Five times during the AKP administrations, the law on tax and social security is passed, or rather, the restructuring of public revenues, this is its sixth. Other than that, I mean, they're out, but they've been extended over and over again. To put it mildly, I mean, it's almost like there's no time we're not going to apply for reconstruction for these 14 years. So that's it, that's it. Of course, I'm about to try to explain what's wrong with the configuration as much as my tongue is spinning. I mean, of course, it's not a very normal thing, it's an extraordinary thing, and it's an extraordinary bad thing, basically. I mean, there shouldn't be so many configurations, so many things we'd say, "I'm sorry." Especially after 14 years of power like this, it's not understandable that the government would come before us with such a law. I mean, it has to be in exceptional situations, something that happens in extraordinary situations. I mean, that's, of course, because it's already been prepared independently of July 15th, so I'm not including it. Is there an economic crisis in particular in Turkey? Is the economy really that stuck? And especially when we think about this black money clause... which means that no matter what happens to Turkey, we're not going to be able to ask for any kind of account. The fact that we're actually seeing -- of course, we have serious criticisms about economic life, but beyond that -- the sense that the economy is facing risks can be easily removed from here. I mean, there's no explanation from the government of whether or not that's the case. Now, once again, excommunication, to put it simply, is a failure in terms of management. So I can't collect what I'm going to get, what I'm going to get, so find an easy one to do. Of course, there's no way to accept that. Well, why do we always have to ask for forgiveness, it stays, it has to be looked at. One, we have serious problems with our tax system. From time to time, I've expressed this from this platform, and if I have time, I'll be able to get into the details of that in a moment. Of course, when we don't solve the problems in this system, we don't always solve anything with forgiveness. I mean, like, what's the point of forgiveness? Here, it's a reduction of public interest, but you're looking at it after the previous pardon, and you're looking at it, and you're looking at it, and you're looking at it, and you're looking at it, and you're looking at it, and you're looking at it, and you're looking at it, and you're looking at it, and you're looking at it, and you're looking at it, and you're looking at it, and you're looking at it, and you're looking at it, and you're looking at it, and you're looking at it, and it's going to get a lot more public interest on both the tax side and the bonus side. In fact, pardons solve nothing, solve nothing; on the contrary, they make the problem even more chronic. Now, why do you have to get a pardon? Because there's a lack of management capacity. In a sense, the inadequacy of both data and analysis in the capacity of management compels Turkey to forgive or restructure laws. Now, the other thing is that there is no political will to be pardoned. When there's no such will, especially when the MPs are in the field, there are demands of citizens, of course, sir, if you could make it easier for us to pay our taxes. After that, lawmakers start making promises in the field, and the political will is already... without such political will, there will be no further pardons in Turkey, there will be no restructuring. Without a political will, such expectations are immediately created, and forgiveness is now inevitable. The previous pardon is always the harbinger of a new pardon. So every pardon creates a new expectation of forgiveness, which is very interesting. And from that moment on, if you remove a pardon, there will be a pardon again. The expectation is already reducing your collections, and forgiveness becomes inevitable again. The lack of punishment is not deterrent, and the lack of justice in the implementation of the administration compels Turkey to pardon, restructuring laws. What's the basic problem with the tax system? The main problem with the tax system is that, once again, we express it a lot, direct taxes are insufficient within the system. In fact, the odd thing is, these taxes are already low, so we can say these are roughly income and institutional taxes, these are low taxes, and these are the most important taxes in forgiveness. So one of the reasons they're already low is because they're always covered in forgiveness. Why would anyone pay income tax, why would institutions pay taxes, it's like a pardon every couple of years. This has greatly increased the injustice of this tax. The government found the easy way out, focused on consumption in certain pens. What is it? Here, it's fuel, automotive, white stuff -- I've done an account of it at some point -- 75 percent of the taxes come independently from the IRS, so at least one person, as the IRS, we collect 75 percent of these taxes automatically. Over the remaining 25 per cent, you need to look at the performance of the IRS. So it's found easy, it's burdened with consumption. Of course, in economies with a lot of consumption like ours, it's understandable, but it's all about the consumption of all taxes now, and it's a big part of what we call a direct tax. It's taxed in the form of a blockage, so it's tax dollars. Other than that, we deal directly with taxes on taxes from KİTbooks and banks that are registered. We've been saying it for a long time, and the government said it, why can't we get a runt tax? That's the absence of the reasons that lead us to forgiveness, where, when the government is taxing this water, there are serious revenues due to the development, and serious irregularities are opening up, where no taxes are being taken are the reasons to forgive us in terms of the system. Of course, the Finance Ministry is a radical organization, but you have to admit, there are serious data deficits, and there's a serious lack of analysis. This has to be fixed. He doesn't share the data. We've barely received a painting from the Finance Ministry in the Commission, and our Finance Minister has expressed his own concerns about the health of that painting. So unless you open your data, you can't improve the quality of data to the market, public institutions, parliament. And because the data quality is low, you can't open this data, so it's a state that feeds each other. We need to increase the capacity of the Treasury to analyze it. So what are the reasons why Turkey -- that it's going to receive so much tax -- is that they need to be examined year after year, as well as by sector and taxpayer species, and to come up with some solutions based on this. Otherwise, we've already stated that these pardon laws don't provide solutions. So we'll share our information. The data should be transparent. So this information is denied from institutions, from institutions that analyze it, from the Parliament, it's impossible to accept. For example, the previous pardon... Now, we're drafting a pardon law, a blind fight that we're doing, basically, what kind of performance has been obtained from other pardon laws, how much revenue we've collected, we have no information on that. Without that information, we are now renegotiating a new law. Although requested, we have not been given this information, my friends, despite the repeated mention of it in the Commission. The ruling group doesn't know about this either -- the consequences of previous practices -- and we don't know about that. Well, what are you waiting for? You're saying we're making a law. We call it an impact analysis. So let alone the effect of this on competitiveness, the effect it has on some economic indicators, what do you expect from here? You're asking, our Finance Minister isn't responding to us. So we don't have any information on how much income is expected from this law. So the height of off the record is another problem. Off the record and amnesty laws feed each other, so it's a matter of nature, and I won't be able to get in here very much. Now, of course, the job has become inevitable, and I don't mean this law has to come out of the black money part, about the pardon part -- but what's really important is that there's no amnesty, and if possible, we need to put that in the Constitution, we'll never ask for forgiveness again. The government has to declare it. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0062par0037	Thank you, Mr. Master. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ahmet Yıldırım is a member of the Parliament of Mush. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0063par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, our country is going through a very difficult process. With the July 15 coup process, we are, yes, worse today than we were on July 14th, but on July 15th, all the work that the forces have uncovered, the forces that want to drive the country into darkness, unfortunately, is still in political power today. In a manner of speaking, if the coup had succeeded, God preserve, what those coupgers wanted to do in this country today is political power, and we've reached a point where a freakish regulation under the rule of law, a large portion of social life, political life, education, and health life has been paralyzed. We're discussing the Law Proposal in the name of Reconstruction of Some Buyers, especially 409 rows under the overwhelming pressure of this country's atmosphere. However, before that, I must say that today we are dealing with regulations that have not been prepared for infrastructure and that have unfortunately victimised large social areas, victimized social life, victimised political life, social life, education, and health care. Imagine that the trade union, which was organized specifically in the area of education near the Laughing Congregation, was shut down, and those members of this union were terminated. Let's just say that being a member of a union does not make a person, an educator, a medic, an officer a coup artist alone. He stayed there, where the union was closed, which was especially organised by educators or public staff close to the Laughing Congregation, and the staff were laid off. Well, 142 members of the trade union, 142 members of the Education-SEN, who may have fought against the state-organisation of the Smiley Congregation until now, were expelled from the public after July 15th. It's not the coup d'etat, but the so-called coup d'etat, but the political power, which we take as a whole is not only the target of political power, it's the social life of all 79 million people. Another issue was the termination of 80 members of the KESK-based Health Workers' Union, 80 workers. What does this have to do with the Laughing Congregation and the coupgers? And the decrees under the law are only issued for institutions belonging to the Laughing Congregation, and if they're aimed at them, how do we relate to the unions or government officials who have fought against the Laughing Congregation from the day they were founded to this day, or how do we understand it, the political power, the government. Therefore, since July 15th, unfortunately, our country is no longer a constitutional state, our country is not a state of law, our country is not a state of law. What is it? Our country has been transformed into a government of freakish laws, and the state is being redesigned. The government decides that, and the opposition unfortunately, knowing or not, is preparing the basis for the government's ability to do so more easily. We're dealing with a reality like this. Another issue, think about it, is that in the last two days only, in the last two days, in my election district, there are about 20 people who are being taken into custody with children in them, with high school students in them. Yesterday, he lost his brother in the Suruç explosion, and our 15-year-old daughter, Asel Revolution, was taken into custody. What does he have to do with the coup, or what kind of criminal license does he have, a 15-year-old boy? Lawyers are leaving, they can't see each other. The lawyer says he can't see this girl for five days, and he can stay in custody for 30 days. Yes, we're preventing the coup, that's how we prevent the coup. A little conscience, we all have families, we have children. A 15-year-old girl, for God's sake, with her criminal license, to the conscience and discretion of the entire General Assembly. Again, we know that more than 30 prisoners of the Republican People's Party's youth have been taken into custody. What's it about? Is this about the coup? And let me also warn the main opposition party here, particularly knowingly or unawarely, that these detentions, as we like to call them, are more lele lola. It's going to be much more than that, we're going to be looking forward to today. In this respect, I invite the opposition party to take the stance that in these bad days, the owners of bad policies, will bring the political power to a more accurate place with a constructive policy or effective opposition, and eliminate the existing impact conditions. The other thing is, especially when the handle and the hay are mixed. Dear friends, let me give you an example. It's a simple example of how the coup d'états got into the world of broadcasts. I know because I'm a former RTÜK member. A radio is called Radio Jahan, and another radio is Radio Jahan Radio for Radio because it is the broadcast organ of a company based in Jahanbeyli. They're both shutting down. The other has nothing to do with parallels, coupgers, on the contrary, a broadcaster who broadcasts to them on the opposing line, but now the radio has been turned off, the manager has been arrested. Come on, get out of it. Yesterday he gave an example of Mr. Special, Ahmetli Governor. He's just an example. People like this, who are victims without interest, who actually run and operate in countless different sectors are victims. Let me put it this way: the political government must quickly make the conditions that have caused this coup because it has been in power for 14 years, when it is conscious of its situation, and bring it to a state of contrition. So there's a regret... there's an apology for that, the political power facing these social communities owes an apology. Again, let me put it this way: God forgive us. These things don't happen. First of all, I don't know if God forgives or doesn't forgive the political power that lays the groundwork, but God forgives sins against him. So you are devouring the bondman, and I have just given him his example, how will he forgive (the sin of) his servant? Here's one of the suicides, the arrests, the detention of a 15-year-old girl, perhaps a month in custody, how will this right be forgiven? Dear friends, unfortunately, there is no hierarchical state structure in the state of the Republic of Turkey at this time, and there has been a loss of order. What if it's not? Believe me, there's a lot to be said for the work we've done since the Commission, but we're dealing with the country's very painful problems, which are very difficult. What if it's not? Now the political power... we've seen two governments, especially in the 26th term alone, in the last two years, and we've run out of hair to say it in both governments: we wish that the provisions that forgive the rich, which give him flexibility, that give him tax exemption should be abandoned as soon as possible. Because in this particular proposal of law, almost every three or four years during the AKP's rule, there is a tax pardon or peace of existence. But what's worse is that, in 2012, we said, we know that Genghis Holdings' half a quadrillion debt was wiped out by the Central Compromise Commission of the IRS, regardless of any law, tax forgiveness, et cetera, et cetera, without any knowledge of the legislature. Another issue: If it is to be done, I would like to state that we need regulations that are more taxed than the upper class, and the lower income, which reduces its taxes, and this is the Supreme Court's ruling. Look, the Constitution 73 is very clear: everyone is obliged to pay taxes according to their financial power to pay public expenses. The fair and balanced distribution of the tax burden is the social purpose of financial policy. Now, he's still paying minimum wage income taxes, for God's sake! We all know that the minimum limit is to make a living. The minimum wage is now increased by 1,300 euros, both below the poverty line and below the hunger limit of the family of 4 people. We're still up, unfortunately, making arrangements for tax pardons for those with high incomes. Let's hope he'll take it from the thesis with a hand, more social... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...more prosperous, more offended by the idea of law, we'd be fulfilling the longing for a state. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0064par0060	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the first chapter Selin Sayek Böke, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Sayek Böke.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0065par0064	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today we're discussing tax forgiveness and peace of existence once again. Tax forgiveness-like practices, such as funding the treasury, overcoming economic crises, or opening a new page, are often applied in our country. We all know that. Only during the AKP administrations, in a period of 14 years, four pardon laws were passed. Now this is the 5th law of amnesty. Clearly, there is a need for tax reform in Turkey, and it is clear that the state needs to extend its hand in order to get rid of the tax burden that the citizen cannot pay, but the first solution that comes to mind should not be forgiveness. First of all, the most basic need in the economy should never be forgotten that there is an economic reform that will increase our citizen's ability to pay the tax obligation. And the data makes it very clear. Look, the value of the added tax in the form of tax forgiveness is actually $34.8 billion Turkish dollars. In other words, the citizen has made the purchase, paid the value value tax while making the purchase, but the tradesman does not have the cash and economic means to deliver the value of this trust added tax from the citizen to the state. I mean, there's a $34.8 billion added value tax that's in the store that can't be paid. The solution is clear: a good economy management should create income for the tradesman and the tradesman's capacity must be increased. Dear friends, the aims of forgiveness laws include the taxpayers to collect difficult economic conditions, clean up their pasts and make peace with the state in terms of taxes. Do tax pardons, which are constantly presented and are now almost routine, really reach that goal? Do the taxpayers really get to pay regular taxes after these pardons? Are Turkey's tax revenues increasing, or is there a serious disruption in its tax-paying behavior, which we may not be able to pay? That's the first question we should be asking if we're taking our jobs seriously when we're considering tax pardons. The answer is very clear. So far, our experiences show that tax forgiveness is not able to collect the tax in the short term, but it also causes serious losses in tax revenues in the long term. For example, 2003, the old money was worth 7.9 quadrillion liras in pardons. Only 60 per cent of this amount, or 4 quadrillion, could be collected at $715 billion. Moreover, their course of conduct was corrupted, and in the long run its effects were negative. Long story short, with these pardons, tax revenues are dwindling, and the expected collections of pardons can never be made. Just two years ago, 67 billion tax debts in 2014 were pardoned, 32 billion SGK bonuses. If forgiveness had been a success with these pardons, we would not be facing new debts that would have to be forgiven again today. But we're looking at today's figures, a much higher need for forgiveness. The tax debt is worth $90.7 billion, and the SGK premium debt is worth $67 billion to the public. The public can't collect what they're getting. Besides these numbers, we have millions of citizens who have paid their taxes on time and full pay, and because of them, we have a government that has been able to collect taxes. Now, come, put yourself in the place of these citizens, I know it's difficult, but our citizens have paid their taxes honestly in time. They profited by their hard work, paid their taxes, not because it was an obligation to the social government they expected to provide them with, but because they expected to receive a service. Then, one day, a citizen who forgave his neighbor who didn't pay the state tax, then swallowed up and paid his taxes the next day, and once again faced with forgiveness, I'm not a sucker. He says, "I'm not a sucker." And he stops paying taxes. The exceptions of the tax pardons, if they become rules, if exceptions are rules, no one obeys the rules. Making amnesty a rule means punishing the tax-paying butcher, the grocery store, the tradesman, the COBI, and the business world. Making amnesty a rule means giving up running the country, making it a reality of tomorrow as it was before. These problems can't be solved with forgiveness. Only by giving a reward to those who pay their taxes in full and on time can they be willing to comply with the tax. And that's why we care very, very much about giving our SME and our tradesmen zero interest loans in exchange for the tax and insurance premiums paid. Dear friends, there is no doubt that the tax regime has structural problems, the solution is not forgiveness; a fair, effective tax collection mechanism must be dealt with tomorrow within a comprehensive economic programme without delay. Unfortunately, however, the government prefers to deal with flies rather than dry the swamp. These pardons will only keep the fly from buzzing. A law-abiding, tax-paying citizen is punished and thus encouraged to break the law and avoid criminal situations. A Turkey where rules have been ignored is being rebuilt again and again, and unfortunately, it puts the idea of 14 years of governance in front of us in a very concrete way. At a time when trust is most needed, we can never accept that this irresponsibleness is being done that will destroy confidence in the Turkish economy. Dear friends, there is not only the wrong and incomplete tax pardons in this bill of law, but there is a peace of existence that is also very dangerous and has been somewhat eliminated by our suggestions. The concern of this article is that Turkey is likely to make money laundering paradise. We expressed our concerns about the matter passed through the commission, our question marks about the involvement of ships and yachts, the concern that bringing money through third parties would cause terrorism and bribery connection, and we made it concrete that they would lose it to Turkey on international ground, and that the money that came in would not be subject to any investigation and investigation was a risk to Turkey. Now, it is said that these concerns expressed by the Commission in the General Assembly will be eliminated by a new arrangement. We understand that as a result of our criticism, ships and yachts will no longer be in the new law, and that bringing money from third parties will no longer be part of the law, and the Ministry of Finance will be in charge of investigating and reviewing criminal revenues. These corrections are positive, but they are extremely inadequate. Now, let's assume that in this time when you're fighting, a terrorist from the L.A.A. came to Istanbul with two suitcases, full of dollars. Will you be able to ask about the outcome of this money? We expect the Ministry of Finance to carry out this important responsibility left to him in the matter that will be changed, and we will be very strict followers. Many negativitys continue in this law that still remain unresolved and contain stories about human beings. Let me share these developments with you: Hakan, 24 years old, is it possible for me to lose my job every day in the fallen tourism industry? He lives in worry and pays $347 in income tax for his minimum wage. Hakan's sister Suna is 28 years old, entrepreneur has a dream for herself and Turkey, and pays one lira of every five liras she earns as tax to the state. Their nephew Samet; the student, the student, steals the exam questions, and he's not even able to study for the exam, but he pays the VAT when he gets the book stationery for the exam. Samet's mother pays the electricity bill every day for her pension, TRT share and contribution, but millions will pass through these doors and they will not pay taxes on Turkish lira. There's another story against them, no sweat, no barely paid electricity bills, no fear of security, no clean profits, no tax obligations. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There is no Hassan, there is no Suna, there is no Samet, there is no Turkan; there are new supporters. Come, if you think of Turkey, give up this law.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0066par0076	Thank you, Mr. Sayek Böke. The talks on chapter one for political party groups are over. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have requested a word on their behalf. Utku Çakırözer, Eskişehir MP. Here you go, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0067par0082	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the first chapter of Law Proposal 409. I salute you and your high council. Once again, I curse the bloody coup attempt on our Veteran Assembly, the martyrs who sacrificed their lives for the protection of our democracy. I believe our people, our great Assembly, and our other constitutional institutions, should be punished with the harshest punishment within the framework of law by the couptic terrorists and their supporters, who have rained bombs and bullets on them. On the other hand, there's no end to terror in the southeast. I wish God's mercy to our security guards who were martyrs in PKK attacks, and an urgent healing for our wounded. Dear lawmakers, there have been numerous dismissals in the military and civil bureaucracy during the coup reckoning process. The information among them is delivered to us, as it is to you, that has nothing to do with the coup or the organization of the congregation. There's a situation that we're going to refer to as the burning of age with the board. In every part of our society, these practices that cause anxiety and discomfort actually cast a shadow on the fight against the coupters. See, according to the statement of KESK, nearly 300 KESK members were suspended from the entire dorm. Only yesterday, artists were suspended from Istanbul State Theatres. The wave of detention and arrests against journalists continues. This process should not lead to new rights violations, media and freedom of expression, as part of a joint call by the Association of Journalists of Turkey and the Union of Turkey. Our common wish is that the process of accountability from those responsible for the coup be carried out in light of the principle of the legal state and without the creation of new victims that we've experienced a lot in the past. My dear friends, the next law proposal is actually an arrangement of forgiveness; this is the sixth. We get amnesty every two years. This proposal is the most important proof that tax justice was failed during the 14-year AKP ruling period, and that our country was not well managed financially. It's proof that the majority of society, our tradesman, our merchant, our farmer, our pensioner, our workers, millions of our citizens, are unable to pay their taxes, bonuses and other debts. Look, my friends, today our pensions are very low, they're barely getting by. We need to resolve the inequality between pensioners. We need to make sure that the bank promotions they've been waiting for are paid for. Similarly, we have millions of workers who work for a minimum wage of 1,300 lira, and in October their salary will be reduced because they will enter the tax zone. We need to fix this as soon as possible. We need to recruit subcontractors. In short, we, our workers, our farmers, our pensioners and all the honest taxpayers, would like to make arrangements immediately. We say in advance that we will say yes to any arrangement to be made about this matter. My dear friends, every tax pardon also creates injustice and injustice in the case of honest taxpayers who pay their dues in full and on time, who believe in their state and trust in it. Its most fundamental duty is to ensure justice by its own hand, to create injustice, to protect dishonest citizens, and to punish honest taxpayers. For these reasons, we have suggested that a reduction and incentive mechanism for the taxpayers who have done their tax homework to eliminate this injustice in some way during the Commission, but not by the ruling party. We hope that all our parties, especially the ruling party, will listen to this call, that we can reward our honest taxpayers a little bit. My dear friends, we have expressed our concern in both the Commission and the General Assembly that the 7th amendment of this bill would render our country's system of anti-money laundering and financing of terrorism obsolete. We are aware of the need for our country's investment, the need for capital, and we have the arrangements for that. If there is real peace of existence, we have always stressed that it should be in such a way as in the past, that it should involve control and interrogation mechanisms, that the hands of MASAK should not be tied. In accordance with this view and our recommendations, we hear that the government has eliminated some important provisions that will put our country in a difficult position in the international arena. However, it is vital that the implementation of suspicious processing notifications of the state of the law that will be corrected today be implemented in a way that will not interfere with research, investigation, investigation and prosecution. Once the law is in effect, we will follow it to the end, under the principles under which we underline it. I'd like to stress that the government has to pay the ultimate attention to this issue. If this is not paid attention, we could be excluded from the international financial system, exposed to financial sanctions that have been applied to Iran in the past, and sever financial ties with the world. And that would mean a complete disaster for our already fragile economy, and ultimately for our people. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0068par0092	Thank you, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0069par0093	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0068par0094	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0069par0095	I have a request for a statement according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0068par0096	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0069par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to point out that we have condemned the detention and arrest fair, which has been directed by the AKP's government to all social communities under the construction of the parallel state. The AKP is making plans to digest all social groups, knowing that this is an opportunity. Hundreds of our employees have been taken into custody or arrested in the past week alone. In Erzurum Karayazıt, 67 of our party employees have been detained without grounds and have not even been interviewed by their attorneys. 11 children aged 12, 13 have been taken into custody after a legally permitted rally in Diyarbakır. The detention and arrest fair, with our co-chairs and politicians in many counties, including Dicle districts, has been shaped as a wave of terror. Now, today... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll be right back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0070par0103	Here you go. I'll turn on your mic.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0069par0104	We have received reports today that more than 30 people from the Republican People's Party Youth Corps have been detained in different cities with great concern and concern. In particular, the detention of members of the CHP Youth Corps during a time when Mr. Kilicdaroglu and CHP officials took photo ops with the President and Prime Minister, giving out nationalist smiles and planning a joint rally, has given the entire community an important warning to show how great the danger is in the future; I condemn, and we will follow the process. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0070par0106	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0071par0107	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0070par0108	Mr. Special, come in, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0071par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't have to tell you how much we welcome Mr. Bauken to express his concerns about the arrest of our young members. This is a little bit like this: In the peace process of the People's Democratic Party with the Justice and Development Party, I have to say that we feel the same way when the members of the Kurdish political movement and the members of the TK operations were brought in. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0072par0113	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0073par0114	Mr. President, Mr. Private's assessment has caused a disturbance.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0072par0115	Mr. Baluken, you said something from where you were sitting, and Mr. Special answered in the same frame, sir. You've had a mutual, coincidental conversation. There's nothing to take this any further, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0073par0116	For the record, there's no account that we can't account for the work that we've conducted as part of the solution process. While those studies were being conducted, the blood flowing in Turkey has stopped, the hope of peace has grown, and has been subject to growing social support in the name of democratisation and peace. At the time, we also put up the most effective tooth-to-tooth struggle on the streets, on the streets, in Parliament, in all the wrong practices that the AKP had done, including ACK operations, and we paid countless prices. In all of our party's activities, especially for TK operations, there are martyrs who have paid the price. Therefore, there is no match for the comparison of Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0072par0117	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0074par0118	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0072par0119	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0074par0120	...and I would like to state to you that from our youth arm, Isparta, Gaziantep, our MPs, and Republican People's Party's political organisations in the region have shown the harshest responses. Our president made his position very clear in his group speech on Tuesday, and I made it very clear at the press conference on behalf of our group today that the ant is his brother, that these young people are members of a family of 1 million people, that we will not have anyone crush them, that we will ask them for their account. Since the Republican People's Party considers the fight against coups and coups to be important for Turkey's future, we believe that its constructive understanding should not be exploited by any environment. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0075par0123	Thank you, Mr. Special. The talks on the first chapter on political party groups and individuals are over. Now I'm going to do a question-answer procedure on the department for 15 minutes. Initiating question-answer sequence. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0076par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm going to read a message to you now, saying that as part of the July 15th Solidarity Campaign for veterans and martyr families, the message is to be transferred to the account numbers provided by our staff and to human resources units, one example of bank deposits must be delivered by August 17, 2016. Now, what in God's name does that mean? So our government doesn't have the power to help? Let our citizens do it, let them do it on their own, well, with their own free will, why are you tagging these, why do you want a document from them that says they're helping? We don't think that's true, we think it should be handled immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0077par0134	Mr. Karbük...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0078par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'll repeat my question yesterday. In front of me (a) of Article 2 (a) of Article 2 (absolutely) under which the proposed law shall be taken, the sentence shall be issued that the tax fines, which have never been issued, including those who have been paid before the publication of this law, have been waived from the collection of all of the tariffs and the delay hikes related to these sentences. Again, similar customs duties have been arranged in the context of the article (2) (a). I would also like to announce the tax bases, which were included in the article, which had been paid the tax base, which had been eliminated in the process of reconciliation, for example, the fact that the entire tax base had been erased in the settlement, and that there had never been a settlement in the fine, and that the tax base, which would have been eliminated after a compromise, would have been counted in this article.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0079par0138	Mr. Akkaya...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0080par0139	Mr. Secretary, I told you yesterday that you can't run this country because the injustices in the revenue distribution continue to increase because of your incompetence in your 14 years of power. Mr. Secretary, the solution is not with tax pardons, but with tax justice. His way should be to reduce the tax burden on workers. Do you have any work to do, including the tax burden on minimum wage?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0079par0140	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0081par0141	Mr. President, according to U.N. data, the number of Syrian asylum seekers registered is 2 million 715,789. 1 million 420,000 of the Syrians in Turkey are children. The Deputy Prime Minister announced the number of Syrian refugees at 2,733,784. The number of Syrians remaining at 26 temporary shelters has been declared 282,815. According to the Human Rights Watch Committee, 708,000 of the Syrian refugees living in Turkey are school-aged children. According to the National Ministry of Education data, only 212,000 of these children registered in public school for the first and secondary school year in 2014-2015. What is the total spending for our Syrian guests in temporary asylum status in 2014-2015? In this context, what is the amount of spending that is thought to be done by the end of this year? Besides Syrian refugees, how much is the annual spending on other refugees in our country?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0079par0142	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0082par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm telling the Minister on various occasions that we need this number, and I'll try it from here, maybe we'll be able to get it. Mr. Secretary, how much tax and bonus revenue do you expect from this new law? That's my first question. My second question: how much tax will you receive in the annual year of 2000 and tax types as a tax base and feral segregation? My third question is: How much tax was collected during the AKP administrations due to their tax configurations? It's tax types again, and I'd appreciate it if it were given over the years. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0083par0149	Mr. Parsak...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0084par0150	Thank you. My question to the Minister is: there are a lot of demands and complaints against us today, especially in the framework of the closure of military schools, along with the state-of-the-art decree issued two days ago. As a result of this extraordinary state, it was done in this framework, but at this point, it is useful to make this distinction: there are young people here who are related to these things, students, etc., etc., who, in whatever context, should be punished fairly for their crimes, but have nothing to do with them, poor, poor, poor, even nationalistic, patriotic, Anatolian children. Thus, especially after that decision, there were many, many, many, righteous complaints. Is there any study between these to be distinguished, Mr. Secretary, in order to resolve this injustice, in order to be passed by the government in the coming days? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0085par0153	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. Now, I promise the government answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0086par0156	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, Mr. Horseman shared with us a message that came to him, a message related to the Public Hospital Association. I'll discuss it with the Minister if you'll excuse me. It's not a subject that I know of, but I have to say that it's not the principle of a voluntary act, that a donation is somehow expressed to people in a different way, that it's not right, but it's also a matter of what we really need to understand, maybe it's a misunderstanding. Mr. Karbüyük, they asked a question about the penalties, which have been issued specifically on the basis of the tax, within our Refiguration Law Proposal. I've studied the text, and the text is clear on how to do the application in such a situation. Mr. Akkaya asked a question in the form of "Will you take the tax burden down?" First of all, I have to say that during the AK PARTY administrations, we made arrangements to reduce tax rates, lower income tax, then institution tax, and a large number of value tax returns. In particular, we've brought the minimum income reduction in order to bring down the tax burden on minimum wagers. In health, education, basic food products, and in some of the basic goods used by the majority of the community, we also made substantial tax reductions. The last thing you know, I'd like to say is that we've been giving our farmers a discount on the value tax on fertilizer and bait. If you look at Turkey on the scale of international comparisons in terms of tax burden, it is listed in the tax load. Of course, we have work to do, especially in terms of direct taxes, which I hope we'll all do together. Mr. Gürer asked for some information on our Syrian guests, and if you'll excuse me, I told my friends about that, and after I get the information from the AFAD, I'll share it with you during the next questions. They asked a question, Mr. Master, how much do you aim for in taxes and bonus revenues? To be clear, there may be an expectation of income under different assumptions, but before the practice begins, we expect a income of this magnitude as Minister of Finance. I would say that it would not be fair to say that I did not find such an approach very accurate as an old technocrat. Here, our citizens will benefit from these laws by making their own choices under this law. Now, as a tax fact, Mr. Master, $90.7 billion will be included within the framework of this restructuring law. At the rate of the delay, it's $45.8 billion. There was a $4.4 billion collection under Law 4811 regarding the collection figures made in the past tax laws, and my friends shared that data with me. I'll try to answer the questions later, the guys couldn't raise him. Mr. Parsak, regarding the closure of military schools, you know, the state of emergency here is being issued by our government on the matter required by the state of emergency. In particular, civilization in defense and security services, which we're all talking about, is really a joint arrangement of all parties. In this context, these recent regulations in the rule of law represent a concept that we all participate in as civilians, especially in the concept of defence security. But it is also useful to express that the existing schools will be closed, while the existing schools are closed, and we are building a new university called the National Defence University, which will actually be run by the National Defence University, which is a higher standard education institution. I want to make a special point here, so with the closing of educational institutions here, it's not over, it's a whole new beginning. Here we are building a university as an institute of higher education to meet the needs of qualified personnel of our Armed Forces, and this time we will run services that will be run by existing schools within the National Defense University that we have just established. So the universal approaches and rules of higher education, the professional approach to higher education and civil understanding, a university environment that is in line with civilian and military requirements, we are bringing up a new concept of education in line with the needs of the age of national defence or defence, defense, security, and changes in technology. So when we consider the subject that has been brought up here from time to time in this context, in fact, today's new university will provide an important support for the need for qualified personnel needed by the Armed Forces. Of course, there is, by the way, a decree on the state of the students regarding the closure of these schools you are asking about is in accordance with the conditions of these students that they will be placed in equal educational institutions by the Board of Higher Education. In this framework, hopefully, we'll have to place these students, but on the other hand, we'll have a much more modern, much more modern, much more modern system of secondary education and higher education that will meet the needs of our Armed Forces in accordance with the conditions of the day. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0087par0167	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We've got time. There are MPs who want to ask questions, I'll give them my word. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0088par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are various speculations about the financial burden of this coup attempt on our country, do you know anything about it? How much is this financial burden? Will you also have a study of how this material load will reflect on the people who are making the impact easier to create, the people who are causing the impact, the people who are laying the stones? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0089par0175	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0090par0176	Thank you. Now, Mr. Secretary, how much do you expect from this bill? I think it's not right for me to answer that question as an old technician. And as a former technician, I think we should be able to respond to that, because we're making an arrangement. In any case, our legislation requires that the impact we expect from an arrangement be added to the arrangement. Beyond that -- we've done this a lot in the past -- there needs to be an income in the budget for these things. So both in the social security balance and in the budget balance, there's actually how much income is expected from here, and there's got to be a number for that. Besides, we've got the old apps, we've got the results from the old apps. Some reasonable, reasonable assumptions can be made. I wanted to contribute. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0091par0179	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Secretary, I'm turning on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0092par0181	Mr. President, thank you. The costs of this coup attempt, of course, must be studied. So it's possible to calculate this with different approaches, different assumptions. It's not right for me to say such a number right now. I wish there were no such coup attempt at all. There are some short-term effects that this has on the economy. But together, hopefully, despite this coup attempt, we will all develop democracy in Turkey, improve the state of law. We will take steps together, especially for Turkey's growth, development, and we will all cover these wounds together. On the other hand, you know, any public official in our current legislation is responsible for the damage he has done to both the public and the individuals. The relevant public units are able to assess the damage created within the framework of the legislation, and then at the point of making the person pay for these damages. I'd like to express that, too. What Mr. Master said is valid in his own regard, I respect that, we have a difference of approach. Hopefully, in this law, we bring important ease to our citizens - both restructuring and matherapy enhancement - and making it very easy for us to correct records and bring in assets from abroad. It's a comforting arrangement for our citizens, especially in this environment, especially in terms of their payment, in terms of their exchange. I wish that our citizens would participate in taking advantage of this law as soon as it came out, so that they could pay off their debt from the past in the long term or in advance. We also made a great deal of convenience here, especially by bringing in a down payment discount. So once the application's started, when the applications are over, we'll already see how much public access is structured. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0093par0187	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And I'm a former technician, and as Deputy Speaker of Parliament, who now runs the General Assembly, I'd like to say that the Finance Ministry has certainly made an account of this offer, but the Minister does not want to share it in a cautious approach at this time because the ministers, the Minister of Finance, don't make mistakes, so I'm guessing. Yes, negotiations on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are 3 motions on article 1, I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Reconstruction of Some Buyers (2/1310) in the 409 rows that are being held, we propose and propose that the declaration of the 1st Article be changed in July 2016, June 2016. Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamayligil Musa Pine Selin Sayek Böke Tulip Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the above (c) be added to the following (c) and the bent numbers be identified accordingly, after the 1st article (b) of the current Law Proposal of 409 rows. Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Erdoğan Erkan Akçay İsmail Faruk Aksu "c) rent, absolute allocation, altitude rights, permits to use, forest funds and shareholders of the treasury," Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 409th amendment (a) of the 1st article of the 409th amendment (a) was the sub-bendi (1), (e) was the sub-bendi (4) sub-bendi (e) and (g) we propose that the (g) subdivision (g) be removed from the text of the proposal. Ahmet Yıldırım İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Merkel Danış Beştaş Fiz Kerestecioğlu Osman Baydemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0094par0213	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0093par0214	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0095par0215	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0093par0216	Osman Baydemir wants to talk about the motion, Şanlıurfa MP. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0096par0219	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected lawmakers, once again, I find a great benefit in expressing it: today, all our people in this geography are trying to live in great difficulty and great hardship, trying to have hope for the future and the future. Unfortunately, the country is going through a vast range of chaos, and this range of chaos is causing great damage to economic values, both human values and democratic values. Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me, this law will undoubtedly apply to the socioeconomic structure of our people in society. As long as you've stopped giving the number, Mr. Secretary, you've certainly done one account: What is the profit expected by this law, what is the amount of resources expected? For example, how many billion dollars of income will come to Turkey as hot money with this law, you're hoping, you're designing, you're expecting? Although you do not share this number with us during the last year's period, how much economic damage has been caused by the destruction of cities in Silvio, Cizre, Sur, Şırnak, Gever, and Gever? I assume you've done a comparison of that, and I hope you'll do a comparison of that. Therefore, all economic values are at risk, regardless of the source and economic value that comes from here, through the strategy of conflict, through the safety perspective. This is the right of life, this is the basis for democracy, this is the cost of human values. In order to give up the policy of scooping and ladling with spoons, this country must first establish its own inner peace, and internal peace can only be achieved through democracy, through full implementation of democracy. Honourable lawmakers, it appears that until now, an effective result has not been achieved because of the coup d'état, which has yet to be faced with coup mechanics. If our national will is indispensable and we agree on the national will, in what sense can it be explained that the HDP (HDP), which still represents 6 million members of this Parliament, is still ignored? It's being ignored, it's still being ignored. From this Parliament, from the Foreign Affairs Commission, there are delegations in five different countries around the world today, but representatives of the Democratic Society Party still don't exist in those delegations. Honourable lawmakers, very clearly, if we want to face the real impact in this country, we must now listen to the voice of Mr. Ocalan, who is constantly on the subject of coup mechanics, the government, the state, the community. In this minor, isolation means the continuation of the coup; the insistence on isolation means insistence on conflict; the insistence on conflict means death. If we don't want one of our people, a soldier, a cop, a guerrilla, a civilian, and we don't want to, then let's remove the lockdown. Once again, the spirit of 2013, of 2014, of this community, has returned to this country, but what we have seen so far is a new front of evil, which is alleged to be against the coup. Rest assured, there's no good in evil the way it's never been before. So, as a result, the trick of Alavere, Kurd Mehmet c'mon watch. For 30 years, Alavere's deception, Kurd Mehmet's watch. If we really want this Parliament to have willpower, it's time, it's time. We need to stand up to the conflict, stand up to the war, stand up to death. Every antidemocratic app... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If we don't object today, when will we object? My deepest regards.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0097par0228	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0098par0230	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit02spe0097par0231	I'll call the number of decisions, the number of decisions I need. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0097par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 122nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. On the first article of Law Proposal 409, there was not enough decision-making in the vote of Şanlıurfa MP Osman Baydemir and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. We're still negotiating the proposal. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. I'm reading the other motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke (b) of Law Proposal 409 be added (c) to the following (c) and that the bent numbers be identified accordingly. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends "c) rent, absolute allocation, altitude rights, permits to use, forest funds and shareholders of the treasury," Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0099par0014	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0097par0015	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0100par0016	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0097par0017	Mehmet Erdogan wants to talk about the motion, Müğla MP. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0101par0019	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of the National Party of Actions to the motion that we have submitted on Article 1 of the Law Bill 409. I hereby salute your high council. Our motion is to add one more measure of coverage in this article 1, including rent, allocation, rights to the Treasury, rights to use, permits, forest funds and share in this configuration. This is especially important for our citizens who deal in tourism in Muğla. I expect everyone's support for this offer. As you know, after the fall of the Russian plane on the Syrian border at the end of 2015, tourism has entered a really difficult process. In April, we submitted a motion to investigate as the National Movement Party and presented our proposals, our proposals. However, the government ignored our proposals, and now they didn't listen to us, and on that day they didn't listen to any of our suggestions. From that day on, tourism was at stake, but with the July 15 coup attempt, tourism has now become more than a struggle, it's all over, it's all over. Today, hotels in Bodrum have reduced to less than 25 per cent. There is no need to discuss Marmaris and Datça anyway, for 15 days it has been completely blockaded by the search of these coup officers. Gene, what the government has taken with this extraordinary procedure... Mr. President, I'm having trouble hearing my own voice from the noise.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0102par0023	Mr. Erdogan, one second, you're quite right. Congressmans, Mr. Erdogan is announcing his motion on an important matter. There's a hum in the General Assembly, please, sir...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0103par0026	Dear friends, there are some decisions the government has made after this extraordinary announcement. One of them is a full release of the permissions in the public. Therefore, so far, the number of cancellations in the tourism industry has been close to 1 million. This completely ended the dying tourism sector. Mr. Minister of Culture and Tourism recently said that the tourism sector is the engine of 56 sectors in a television programme, so if the tourism doesn't continue, if the sector doesn't work, the 56 sector will be affected. In this regard, your support for the tourist, sir, a number of hotel owners or others will not solve the problems of the tourism industry and the problems of the sectors that depend on it. The solution is to run the industry. To do that, this matter of public leave must surely be re-opened and left to the discretion of the superiors, at the very least, to ensure that people will take a month, 20 days, if not, a week's leave of absence. Again, citizens in the tourism industry, I mean, they don't have any income, so how is he going to benefit from this configuration? In that respect, these people need to be able to turn the bread boat around. Again, because of the loans that most of the people in the industry have taken out and their debt to the public, they have to be blocked, so that people can continue their activities. We've told Mr. Secretary several times about this year's non-exemplary costs. Mr. Secretary is having trouble listening again today because he doesn't have time to listen to us. These ecpriminals must not be taken for this year. The employee's insurance premiums need to be made easy to pay, some of the premiums need to be paid by the state. Again, the loans taken by businesses serving in this sector at the beginning of the season must be structured. However, local governments also have very important tasks. After this Metropolitan Law, the water prices used by these tourism facilities have been very high, and they need to be made easier. While not covered by the law, one of the most important complaints of the people in this tourism industry is the behavior of electricity distribution companies. Businesses that can't pay their debt to power distribution companies are either cut off or instalmented at very high prices. In this regard, the government must support the sector. Otherwise, there are a lot of people in this industry who are going to be bankrupt and desperate for jobs and other reasons this year. There's still a chance to treat this wound. I'm inviting the government on this. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0104par0036	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Reconstruction of Some Buyers (2/1310) in the 409 rows that are being held, we propose and propose that the declaration of the 1st Article be changed in July 2016, June 2016. Tulip Carabinieri (Bursa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0105par0043	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0104par0044	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0106par0045	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0104par0046	It's Lale Karbük who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Carbage.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0107par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to Article 1 of the Law Proposal on Reconstruction of Some Acquisitions. Congressmans, it should not have come directly as an offer of forgiveness, it would have been more appropriate and more elegant to come as a government bill. And that way, the opinions of the institutions could be taken, and the analysis of the impact that we've always expressed as a lack of influence could have been done, as we stress, so it could have been stronger. Yes, we're actually discussing this bill with very broad materials in five minutes, but I don't think that's enough on these important issues. On the other hand, like the forest villagers, there were details like the farmers' problems that were missing, and then there were additions, and, of course, when we were in a hurry, when we were in a bit of a hurry, these problems came out, and we saw that again. Yes, Councilors, we see again today the importance of the culture of compromise, rather than the culture of imposition. If you'd like to remember the process we've been through, let's all remember it together. We've been through a very painful period of time with the peace of existence. We've stressed many times that it's not good for our country, with all our friends from here. We have repeatedly expressed that we are on the side of international contracts and that we can become a suspicious country in financing terrorism and laundering money. It doesn't matter where it comes from, as long as it shows up, that we need it, and that's where we said we'd actually be in need of it, and that we'd look like a helpless country. In fact, we want to attract investors, we have repeatedly stressed that we have the risk of losing current investors, and that even our importers and exporters can have negative effects that go so far that they can make money transfers even more difficult internationally. Dear Regents, this is a time when Turkey's risk premium is rising. Turkey's view and perception of abroad must be strengthened. The way to strengthen is not to impose, but to compromise. While internationally Turkey is being monitored whether or not it abuses the State of Emergency practices, it is also very important for this perception whether Turkey looks like a money laundering country. With the latest coup attempt, it is crucial that the increased risk premium is negative and preventing its impact until it drops its credit rating. In this process, you and I know very well that the opposition's participation in decisions that have been made in both the international environment and the right perception, and that opposition's harms are very important. Let's never forget that. We are also aware of our duty as insurance for this process, and we will continue to do so. We love our country, and we've expressed this danger, and while it's not enough in this framework, I'd like to point out that it's a pleasure to have the changes made. Congressmans, on the other hand, economic permanent solutions should be produced every two years instead of tax forgiveness. Instead of producing economic policies that generate income, we can't go with the solutions that save the day, Congressmans. In terms of tax psychology, for those who have fulfilled their obligation, it is also necessary to think and think by them. While I am not opposed to these arrangements, I would like to once again stress that the need for economic moves that create solutions instead of people who are constantly in need of forgiveness and who can't pay their debts. On the other hand, in the normalization process after July 15th and in the restructuring of the staff, we express what we know and the correct process that should be at each stage. I will end this process by paying attention to it and pointing to the importance of the opposition and international perception of its involvement in the monitoring of the State of Emergency process and the restructuring of institutions. Again, I stress that we have returned from the brink of danger with the necessary change in the matter of property peace. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0108par0060	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The "409 per cent of the tax fines" of the "409 per cent of the remaining 50 per cent of the "expension fines" of the remaining 50% of the remaining 50 per cent of the remaining penalty, which is included in the 2rd Article (1) (b) of the 2 article (2/1310), and the "60 per cent of the remaining article of the same article (2) (b) in my hand, "we exchange the remaining 50% of the fines for the "perpetuation fines" of the remaining 50 per cent to the remaining" (50 per cent of the remaining article), and the "responsibility of the remaining" of the remaining article to be changed into an additional 60 per cent of the remaining article. (11) The taxpayers of incomes and Institutions' Taxes are credited with an interest-free business loan of the amount of tax and social security prims they pay in full and on time. The interest and other costs related to these loans are covered by the Treasury. The Ministry of Finance and the Undersecretary of Treasury are jointly authorized to organise the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this clause. Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamaylıgil Tulip Moses Pine Selin Sayek Böke Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to Article 2 of the current Law Proposal 409. "11) The income tax tax tax, which has not been paid due but has not been paid due, and has paid taxes for the last 3 years regularly during its legal period, is granted to the taxpayers and institutional tax collectors as much as the tax on income they declare with their annual income tax statement and a tax statement and income tax on the profits, and a tax reduction of the institutional tax rate of 5 points. However, tax cuts cannot exceed 50,000 Turkish liras. The Ministry of Finance is authorized to determine the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this joke." Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Master Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay İsmail Faruk Aksu Mehmet Erdoğan Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the number of articles (8) and (10) of Law Proposal No. 409. We offer and propose that their Lu jokes be removed from the bidding text. Ahmet Yıldırım İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Merkel Danış Beştaş Osman Baydemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0109par0086	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0108par0087	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0110par0088	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0108par0089	Müslüm Doğan wants to talk about the motion, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0111par0092	Mr. President, I have made a promise regarding Law Proposal 409. The Law Proposal for Reconstruction of Some Acquisitions includes the third tax pardon in this scope over the past five years. The arrangement, which means tax and insurance premium pardons, which have been restructured every four years on average, unfortunately eliminates tax compatibility. At the same time, in accordance with such tax pardons, he is victimizing and in a sense punishing our citizens who have paid their taxes and insurance premiums without delay. According to this proposal, sub- and middle-class citizens are almost unable to benefit from this tax pardon or receive a partial minimum of benefits. We see clearly that large capital sections can benefit from the tax pardons and configurations involved in the proposal. There's no need to go too far, but we remember how big companies and businessmen took advantage of earlier tax pardons, how their millions of tax debts were wiped out in a pen. This offer, like other tax pardons, will lead to the average citizen, not to work, not to work, but to make businessmen and large investors happy, to make them richer, and to increase their profit rates. Dear lawmakers, these concerns are evidence that the 2nd (c) joke of the substance (c) will be cut off, that the tax-free sentences, which are not subject to the customs tax, are 70 per cent abandoned, while the others are lower than this rate. I'd also like to state here that we expect a comprehensive statement from government officials on how the size of the pardon on the customs tax changes according to the other rates. The fact that earlier pardons are aimed at the interests of certain individuals and capital centers also makes us recur those concerns. In addition, there is an arrangement in the article that instead of the legal delay rates from tax or public pay due to the date until now, there will be a delay interest on the basis of domestic monthly interest, so the current rate is reduced from 1.40 to 0.80. Given the tax debts of large capital areas, it's not wrong to say that it provides a more serious tax pardon, given the fact that tax injustice is already too low in favor of the rich. The government and ruling party maintains a constant possibility of a tax pardon in this proposal, particularly preventing the regular tax payments of large investors, embezzling fiscal discipline and feeding tax irregularities. The government has repeatedly issued tax pardons, creating a huge injustice compared to those of large companies who, according to an average citizen, have already paid as much as the tip of a needle. There are significant differences between the interest paid by a citizen who used a loan to pay his debt to the public and paying it in this way. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to ask you again why a citizen who is in such a hurry to live and who pays his taxes despite all the difficulties of living, is being subjected to such a huge tax pardon. That's actually what we need to talk about. A citizen who has paid the insurance premiums so far, who has invested his tax debts day-to-day has been reduced to the guilty state of this arrangement. This injustice must end at once. In order to address this injustice, this inequality can be corrected by giving tax cuts to our tax-paying citizens. I think there may be a law in Law 5510 that protects our citizens who pay their taxes regularly without delay. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0112par0101	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0113par0103	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit03spe0112par0104	There is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. There is a difference of opinion among clerk members. So I'm going to use the electronic device to see if there's enough to decide. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0112par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 122nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. On Article 2 of Law Proposal 409, the decision of İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan and his friends was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We're still negotiating the proposal. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. I'm reading the other motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The "409 per cent of the tax fines" included in the 1st part of Article 2 (b) of Article 2 (1310) of the article (2/1310) of the "Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the remaining 409 rows" and the "50 per cent of the remaining 50% of the fines of the tax fines," which is included in the memorandum "b" of the 2nd article (b), the "full" of the remaining 50 per cent of the remaining 50% of the fines, and the "responsibility of the remaining 50%" of the remaining penalty, the "al clause of the remaining article" of the remaining article, and the "al clause of the remaining article" as an additional 60% of the remaining article, and the same article (b) in the second article (b). (11) The taxpayers of incomes and Institutions' Taxes are credited with an interest-free business loan of the amount of tax and social security prims they pay in full and on time. The interest and other costs related to these loans are covered by the Treasury. The Ministry of Finance and the Undersecretary of Treasury are jointly authorized to organise the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this clause. Ancient Durmaz (Tokat) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0114par0013	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0112par0014	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0115par0015	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0112par0016	It's Ancient Durmaz who wants to talk about the motion, the Slap Congressman. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0116par0019	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are based on a country's fundamental power, law, justice and economics. The economy, the legal system, the justice system, every system that isn't properly run, every system that isn't run, is doomed to collapse. These basic values are also critical areas that cannot be used for everyday policies. Taking the right economic policy is the fundamental responsibility and responsibility of politicians, especially the government, to all citizens of this country. We see that in 14 years, the AKP continues to have serious structural problems in the economy. These problems return to our people at great cost as a result of yearly wrongs, where they will be solved. The economy does not rise with privatisation of major production resources; it never rises from the back of the poor, especially with the exploitation of the pension fund, unemployment fund. As you can see, it's not just the example of a poorly-run economy. After all this, I draw your attention to a matter that is extremely important to our country's reputation. 2 international credit rating agencies say that Turkey is a non-investigative country. As a government, we know you have no right. Our country's economic policy and trust cannot be created only by peace of existence or tax peace. This law, in fact, is a painful consequence of the economy, the poor administration, the lack of permanent solutions to problems. The AKP has brought up tax peace for the fifth time since its arrival in power, but cannot bring economic solutions to our country. As with previous arrangements, your responsibility is greater. Where in the world, in what country, has tax peace been seen for the fifth time in 14 years? There is no country for example. Tax pardons to save the day are also against the principle of equality in taxes. The main reason for tax peace is to reduce public revenues and follow them regularly. It is inevitable that these policies of understanding and governance will bring even more trouble to our country. The AKP governments have still failed to establish a more fair, simpler and broader, viable tax system in 14 years. Dear lawmakers, the budgets for states are prestigious and important. This is a government declaration that the tax peace, the honest tradesman, not the peace of the poor people, but the budgets of our country are far from the target. Imagine a state that can't collect unforgiving taxes. At this point in our country, a citizen who has made it a principle to pay his taxes regularly is in economic straits and is no longer able to pay his taxes. A two-year-old arrangement, a three-year renewed tax pardon, also eliminates public tax voluntary fitness. Each new tax pardon disrupts the burden of a citizen, allowing him not to pay taxes anyway. Its name is nothing more than a decent, honest, tax-paying citizen being punished by the hands of the state and the government. The government has been in power for 14 years. Mr. Secretary, thanks to you, the shopkeeper is not paying his debt, or is he not able to pay it, so it's important to study well. As they say, you have left no blood vessels in the city. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal to reward the taxpayer for this matter. It has just been read. Those who pay their taxes in full and on time must use a non-interesting business loan of the amount of tax and social security premiums they pay. The treasure must also pay for interest and other costs related to these loans. I'm also looking for support from the General Assembly, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0117par0027	Thank you, Mr. Durmez. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to Article 2 of the current Law Proposal 409. Muharrem Varlı (Adana) and his friends "11) The income tax tax tax, which has not been paid due but has not been paid due, and has paid taxes for the last 3 years regularly during its legal period, is granted to the taxpayers and institutional tax collectors as much as the tax on income they declare by annual income tax and the tax on institutions, and the income tax on which they declare, and the income tax on income tax on profits, and the income tax on which has been imposed over the income tax rate of the institutional tax rate of 5 points. However, tax cuts cannot exceed 50,000 Turkish liras. The Ministry of Finance is authorized to determine the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this joke." I'll ask the Commission and the government if they agree. Commission?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0118par0036	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0117par0037	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0119par0038	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0117par0039	Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0120par0042	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the motion we made on behalf of our group, and I salute you all. First of all, I condemn the coup attempt on July 15th. This coup attempt was prevented by the upright and clear stance of the political institution, the filling of the fields of our people and the presence of democracy. In this respect, I want to once again emphasize how important the political institution is, how important our political parties are, and the address of this is a parliamentary democracy. Parliamentary democracy is established in Turkey, and political parties are the institutions of parliamentary democracy, and its clear stance in the face of this coup attempt has shown all of our political parties. In this respect, I also want to thank all of our political parties. Of course, those of us who want to do the coup here, who have been donated from yesterday to today within the state, who are trying to take over this state, we have every right to make the most of it. We all deserve to be punished for these things, but we also need to be careful that we don't burn the age with the skull, friends. It would be the most important reason for all of us to have a conscience here, not to leave the law, not to leave justice. A lot of civil servants are being suspended today because their kids went to the school yesterday, because they went to their schools. So, who made these classrooms become the center of attraction? We're gonna have to ask ourselves that, aren't we, fellas? Who made these classrooms become the center of attraction? So, just because his kids went to the classrooms and went to their schools, civil servants are being suspended. We need to be conscientious and sensitive about this, too. We've made a motion here. With this motion, we say, "Let's give a reward to those who pay their taxes without delay and who don't owe taxes." What do we do? Let's give them a 5% discount on the next tax bill. Now, I believe that in a moment, those who agree... Those who do not accept... will refuse... but I want to explain from here that my dear friends, people, have saved a lot of debt to the government by not paying their taxes. On the one hand, he raised his pockets, his children's children's livelihoods, ate less, worked hard, took away his taxes, paid healthy and well every time. Now, you punish them, but on the other hand, you reward those who don't pay their taxes. He does not have such a sense of justice; that is a wrong point of view. So let's not equate those who have paid their taxes to this day, those who have no tax debt to the state, and those who have accumulated taxes, and separate them from each other, and let's reward the people who have actually paid their taxes to the government once and for all. And we're limiting that to $50,000, so we're not including high taxes. Why? We're limiting it to $50,000 so people on less scale can benefit from it. But, of course, I'm looking, and you're not even listening to this, and you don't want to understand, and you're about to raise your hand and turn it down. I'm already complaining about you to our people from here. Look, you punish those who pay their taxes, you reward those who don't pay their taxes. Mr. Secretary, when poor Mehmet doesn't pay his taxes on the network, you tie up his tractor, 10 acres of land, 20 acres of land, you put up foreclosure through the tax office. You can't get a loan from the Farm Bank, you can't drive a tractor into a field, but you're ignoring a billion-dollar debt, and you're trying to pay them off today. It's not a fair practice, it's not a fair practice. So come, accept this motion, and we'll give you a 5% discount next time it comes to taxes for those who don't owe taxes. Admit it, why won't you accept it? It's not working for you. On the other hand, you're keeping your economistic prices too high, and our farmer is very complaining about it, so you're going to have to settle our farmer's complaint in that sense. There's something in this package for everyone, but nothing for the farmer again. The bride says, "Control these corporate prices, instruct your bureaucrats, and I salute you all."
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0121par0050	Thank you, Mr Varli. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There are three motions on the third article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the available 409 rows be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Tulip Carabinieri Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamayligil Musa Pine Selin Sayek Böke Ali Özcan ADADDE 3- (1) In the terms of the date of which this Law has been published, first-level judicial authorities have filed a lawsuit or have not yet passed the term of litigation, it will be calculated on the basis of re'sen or administrative tax tariffs and tax taxes on customs taxes; in terms of tax/profit taxes/profit taxes, up to 40% of this amount of interest, interest interest interest and delay increases, and the entire increase of the YI-UFE monthly changes will be calculated on the basis of this law; on condition of full repayment and full payment in this law; in exchange for the amount of taxes/mutation of taxes, never, with the amount of interest increases in interest, and the same amount of fines and the amount of tariffs. As of the date of the publication of this Law, the sentence of this joke is carried out on those who have been charged with customs duties and who have not been granted administrative appeals or who have been charged with administrative appeals. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of Article 3 of Article 3 of Law Proposal 409 be changed in the following way and that (2) the first joke be removed from the text of the article. Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mehmet Parsak Erkan Akçay İsmail Faruk Aksu Mehmet Erdoğan ▪ As of the date of which this law has been published, the first level of judicial authorities have been sued, or the deadline for filing charges has not passed, or the appeals or appeals has not passed, or has been applied for an appeal and appeal or has not expired or has been applied for a decision-fixing period or has been approved until the date of the decision-fixing process, the amount of supplying, re'sen or administrative tax tariffs has been imposed on taxes on customs taxes, and the amount of tariffs of taxes/igration taxes on this charge has been reduced by 50% of interest, interest, interest interest interest interest and delay and delay increases; the amount of this law will be paid by the same amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of taxes, and the amount of taxes on which has been paid by the amount of the amount of taxes, and the same amount of the amount of the amount of taxes, and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the tax, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of taxes, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of tax, the amount of tax, the amount of tax, the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of tax, and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of tax, the amount of tax, the amount of tax, and the amount of tax, the amount of tax, and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of tax, and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of interest, the amount of the amount of the amount of Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of Law Proposal 409 be removed from the proposal text. Ahmet Yıldırım İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Merkel Danış Beştaş Osman Baydemir Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0122par0079	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0121par0080	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0123par0081	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0121par0082	İmam Taşçıer wants to talk about the motion, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Stonesman.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0124par0085	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, two years ago, these days, I honor the Kurds of Ezidi, who were slaughtered in Shengal, South Kurdistan. I also condemn and curse the ISIS who slaughtered them. I have made a commitment to the unsubstantiated or lawsuit-delayed debts, which is the third article of the Law Proposal of 409 rows. The state needs to be transparent, democratic in order to collect its debt, the state needs to be a state of law. If the law is not a state, if the state is ruled by someone, or ruled by a government, then the law is not legal in all the organs of the state, and these taxes are not collected the way they're asked, it's unfair to some. Why am I telling you this? For the past fifty-sixty years, the state has been ruled by martial law, coups, and OHAL. After the 1960 coup, all of you knew about the executions, followed by long-term declarations of martial law, followed by a military junta, a fascist junta -- again in the 1980s -- and in 1980, a military, a fascist junta, and this junta, long-standing rule of state, and then, in the 1970s, the democratic rule of government was eliminated in the form of government. No one could resist it, nor could he resist it, nor could the junta rule in these 1980s as he desired, and behind the junta came the OHALs. What was done in the State of Emergency? As you all know, the State of Emergency lasted for nearly 15 years. Today's power was a government that boasted of eliminating those FULCRUMs. During that period of the State of Emergency, nearly 1,700 people were slaughtered in the Kurdistan geography, 4,000 villages were evacuated, over 4 million people were taken from their homes and emigrated. Now, again, we're dealing with an OHL. We are governed by this State of Emergency. It's my wish that this is not the case of the State of Emergency, but it's already called a state of emergency. This will be governed by decrees in the rule of law, and democratic rules will be eliminated; the country will be tried to be governed by decrees in what we call an extraordinary state of law, not democracy. So, friends, this process that I'm talking about, the real reason for the last fifty-sixty years of the process, in my opinion, is that there is no democracy in Turkey, that democracy does not exist. For democracy to be established in Turkey, the Kurdish problem must be resolved. Democracy cannot come to Turkey until the Kurdish problem is resolved. 20-25 million Kurds live in Turkey, and these 20-25 million Kurds are ignored, their language is denied, their culture is denied, and they can't participate in governance, in their geography, they can't govern themselves on their own territory. In such cases, of course, the rulers also have reflexes from those who rule Turkey, and this time they are beginning to increase their pressure on their own people, because if they do not apply this pressure to the Turkish people and other peoples outside the Kurds living in Turkey, the Kurdish problem must be resolved in all of Turkey. The most important thing for the Kurdish problem to be resolved is that the Kurds govern themselves in this geography. We're not talking about breaking up, we're talking about living in the same geography, running ourselves over our own land. This happens under the roof of this House, with negotiations in this Parliament and dialogue in this Parliament. If these dialogues develop, if the Kurdish problem is resolved, democracy will come to Turkey, and there will be no more martial law. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0125par0096	Thank you, Mr. Stonesman. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0126par0098	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit04spe0125par0099	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, and I'll call the number of decisions in the vote. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's a difference of opinion among the clerks, we'll use electronics to determine if there's enough to decide. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0125par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 122nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision of Diyarbakır MP Imam Taşçıer and his friends had not been reached in the vote on Article 3 of Law Proposal 409. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We're still negotiating the proposal. The commission is in place. The government is in place. I'm reading the other motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of Article 3 of Article 3 of Law Proposal 409 be changed in the following way and that (2) the first joke be removed from the text of the article. Mehmet Parsak (Afyonkarahisar) and his friends ▪ As of the date of which this law has been published, the first level of judicial authorities have been sued, or the deadline for filing charges has not passed, or the appeals or appeals has not passed, or has been applied for an appeal and appeal or has not expired or has been applied for a decision-fixing period or has been approved until the date of the decision-fixing process, the amount of supplying, re'sen or administrative tax tariffs has been imposed on taxes on customs taxes, and the amount of tariffs of taxes/igration taxes on this charge has been reduced by 50% of interest, interest, interest interest interest interest and delay and delay increases; the amount of this law will be paid by the same amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of taxes, and the amount of taxes on which has been paid by the amount of the amount of taxes, and the same amount of the amount of the amount of taxes, and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the tax, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of taxes, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of tax, the amount of tax, the amount of tax, the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of tax, and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of tax, the amount of tax, the amount of tax, and the amount of tax, the amount of tax, and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of tax, and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of interest, the amount of the amount of the amount of Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0127par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0125par0014	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0128par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0125par0016	Mehmet Parsak, MP of Afyonkarahisar, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0129par0019	St. Turkic nation, respected lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. I have made a commitment on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the third amendment of the bill we're negotiating. Now, in the talks that we've had on this grand stand, and especially in the last 15 days, we've had the most need for justice, especially in the last 15 days, and since justice is the foundation of property, which is the basis of the state, especially when we consider the developments after July 15th, what we need most is justice, which is a fact that we need to look for in this framework, within the framework of the law proposal we're negotiating. One of the two very basic functions of the state is to be judged, we have to be fair in this, but we also have to be fair in taxation and tax collection. There is no justice, unfortunately, at the base, on the base, on the basis, on the basis, on the basis of the tax, as we have just stated in the 2nd article, and this is causing serious difficulties, serious difficulties. So, for justice at least in the collection stage, we've just made a motion in Article 2 of Article 2 and we've said: let the taxpayers pay their tax in full and regularly at the time, and the taxpayers, who can't pay their taxes for years or pay their taxes or pay their taxes for years, at least in order to establish justice among the taxpayers who make it a habit, at least in order to do so, we've been given a 5 per cent reduction at least at the end of the end of the period of the AKP's rule, and we've been offered a little bit of support for this tax peace, which has been encouraged by the Commission, as a result of its failure to establish justice between the taxpayers. Now, with the motion we've made in this third article, if you're doing injustice on this base, on this base, on the ground, and on this basis, and on the charge of collecting, you've often passed this amnesty law, which you've passed, when injustice is being done between the person who pays in principle and the person who doesn't, at least in this framework, we've made a motion to establish justice between those who don't pay. In the current case of Article 3, there is a proportion among the taxpayers, who will be subject to the ease of paying, restructuring under the mercy law, in which the third article is not able to pay its taxes, in which case the tax debt has been finalised or during the period of litigation, or its trial continues. Here, he's filed a lawsuit, but there's been an unfair distinction among those who are still on trial. Here's our motion -- I'm reading it the same way -- and we're also asking for the same ease in the part of the additional (1)th joke that is relevant, or the period of appeals or appeals or appeals or the period of appeals or the period of decision correction has not passed, or the application of decision correction has also been applied to the terms of the contractors who are present at these phases. These are the judicial pathways, which means that the person applied in this direction, and the first-degree court ruled against him, but then he applied for judgment. We feel there should be at least no injustice between these and those who have filed a lawsuit or those who have not yet filed a lawsuit. I'm sorry, too, to guess, that our motion, unfortunately, will be used in this framework as well. So at least on this grand bench, we gave this motion to our beloved nation to show the difference and to emphasize that injustice had been done in this framework. I demand the acceptance of our motion, and once again I salute the Veterans' Council.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0130par0027	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the available 409 rows be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz (Tokat) and his friends ADADDE 3- (1) In the terms of the date of which this Law has been published, first-level judicial authorities have filed a lawsuit or have not yet passed the term of litigation, it will be calculated on the basis of re'sen or administrative tax tariffs and tax taxes on customs taxes; in terms of tax/profit taxes/profit taxes, up to 40% of this amount of interest, interest interest interest and delay increases, and the entire increase of the YI-UFE monthly changes will be calculated on the basis of this law; on condition of full repayment and full payment in this law; in exchange for the amount of taxes/mutation of taxes, never, with the amount of interest increases in interest, and the same amount of fines and the amount of tariffs. As of the date of the publication of this Law, the sentence of this joke is carried out on those who have been charged with customs duties and who have not been granted administrative appeals or who have been charged with administrative appeals. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0131par0036	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0130par0037	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0132par0038	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0130par0039	Ali Özcan wants to talk about the motion, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0133par0042	Mr. President, lawmakers, tax forgiveness is about reducing the state's stockpile. However, six tax pardons have been issued in 14 years, and those who pay regular taxes have been victimised, and those who do not pay them have been helped. Well, while these friends who make a habit of it are being tautified, our debt supply has gone from 99 billion to 158 billion. You've come to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey before, but you've sided with the opposition in the General Assembly with the opposition on the issue of black money out of the proposal, and you've brought these articles to the agenda by further softening some of the articles. Of course, making money is very important for living, but how should money be earned? The money must be earned by production, earned by service, earned by labour, risked and taxed by the state. What tax are you going to pay? You're going to pay the tax, you're going to pay the SEC tax, you're going to pay the labor fees, and eventually you're going to have a tax plate. It can be damaged in times of crisis, but at least in the good days of the economy, your loss, your profit, your matrix will appear there. In order for all of this not to happen, we need one substance at a time - a way to avoid the power of politics, the possibilities of politics. We need to prove that politics isn't the only way to prevent this tax law, tax forgiveness, and so forth. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, of course, the country is not well managed, so the economy is not well managed. We don't have a production-based economy, we have an economic system based on consumption and hot money. He brought you in, you hit a wall. You need money. Now, why do you need the black money? Needing black money means the government needs black money, means the rich need dry onions. Hero, I ask you... you're going to need onions, and you're going to need this country with this economic system. Now, we fought for years to become first-class economies. When you arrived, we were in the 17th place, and you struggled to get into the 5th row. When we fight for the 5th place, we will now fall to the lower side of 17, and soon we will fall to the lower part of 20. Now, an economy that needs money can't be a first-class economy. Well, what do you have to do? Moral, law-abiding, law-abiding businessmen are needed in Turkey with knowledge, knowledge, culture, crew, staff and skill. But what did you do? You've actually tried to do business with companies that don't have any savings, no morals -- look, I'll talk to them for half an hour if you want to -- and they don't have a staff, they're not growing firms. Big projects were done, no one objects, but in what way did you do it, which side did you give it to? I don't have five minutes to question them. I tell you every time: I want to put all the investments that have been made since 2002 on the table -- whoever has the heart -- from the top to the bottom -- I want to put them on the table; I want to put them on the table 20 years ago, 15 years ago. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's talk about what people are given in real estate partnerships without even considering the Public Contraction Act, not in the Parsel area, not in the region.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0134par0051	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0133par0052	Am I out of time?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0134par0053	Time's up, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0133par0054	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0134par0055	Mr. Ozcan, I didn't give it to anyone, I'm afraid...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0133par0056	Okay. We want economic peace, economic reconciliation? We'll put the 17-25 on the table for him. Here, all parties, those who are the victims of the 17-25, when we bring them up, there will be economic reconciliation and economic peace. Now, tradesman... you collect taxes from the store's stock, you don't collect taxes from the man who's going to bring in big money. What kind of law is that? The shopkeeper now asks us: 'They are taxing me...' But you don't receive taxes from the man who brings great money. That's the only way to relax in society.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0135par0060	Mr. Ozcan, thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0133par0061	And from now on, I'd like to be privileged, and I'd like my five minutes to be extended to seven minutes. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0135par0064	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 4: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 4th amendment of Article (2/1310) of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the available 409 rows will be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Cetin Osman Budak Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamaylıgil Tulip Carbage Musa Pine Selin Sayek Böke MADDE 4- (1) Regarding the times covered by this Law, the tax examinations that were not completed before the publication of this Law continue with the condition of keeping the provisions of this Law confidential for the increase in mathematics and taxes, even though they were not completed. After the completion of these transactions, 40% of all tariffs and 20% of the fine in tax-free sentences will be applied in writing within 30 days from the date of the release of this law on the basis of the monthly change rates, as well as two months in the period set to begin after the notice period of the hearing of this report, as well as six months in which the original tax-related tax interest will be accounted for, as well as 20% of the fine on non-tax-responsible sentences, which will be imposed on the basis of the original tax-requency charges, as well as on the basis of the notice date of the first installment notice. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article 5 of Law Proposal 409 be removed from the text of the article. Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mevlüt Karakaya Erkan Akçay Mehmet Erdoğan İsmail Faruk Aksu Now, I'm going to read the most anti-matter motion, and I'm going to process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of Law Proposal 409 be removed from the proposal text. Ahmet Yıldırım İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Merkel Danış Beştaş Osman Baydemir Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir I ask the Commission about the motion made by lawmakers from Peoples' Democratic Party Group who suggested that the 4th article be removed from the proposal text: Does the Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0136par0091	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0135par0092	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0137par0093	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0135par0094	Erol Dora wants to talk about the motion, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0138par0097	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on Article 4 of the Law Proposal 409 of Reconstruction of Some Acquisitions. I salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are now discussing a new tax pardon the government has brought to Parliament's agenda. The last tax pardon, as we know, passed through Parliament in September 2014. When a tax system is pardoned almost every two years, it's easy to say that it doesn't actually have a tax system. There is a tax regime that is shaped in terms of periodical conjunctural situations, economic crisis, and favours those who do not pay taxes. Dear lawmakers, on the grounds of this offer, we bring in a tax pardon to reduce public interest. So, for example, did the last tax pardon reduce public interest? No. According to the ministry's data, which he will receive before the tax pardon in 2014, 67 billion are now more than 90 billion, according to the Ministry's data. I mean, the debtors didn't pay their debts, or rather, they couldn't. Hence, tax forgiveness has failed to solve the basic tax problem. Because forgiveness is a very important institution, and it should be rarely applied in exceptional cases. It must not be unfair to our citizens who pay their taxes regularly. Dear lawmakers, of course, one important issue should be taken into account when the tax pardon is being issued or when public debt is being structured is the need to consider regional criteria rather than central and general rules. So, for example, according to differences between regions, the situation is different in Diyarbakir, different in Istanbul, different in Ankara, different in other regions. In what particular provinces are debtors piled up in these areas? What areas of business do we owe more, or small businesses in those areas, large businesses, or by sectors, how do we distribute these debts? What sectors are especially in debt? These should be looked at. However, as we understand it, the Ministry does not have any concrete work in that direction. For example, reasonable tax regulations for the districts and districts where curfew has been imposed for almost a year have not been carried out. Dear MPs, of course, now that we've had a coup attempt, we curse it again. This coup attempt and pre-procedural processes have brought us into an economic crisis. Tourism has been severely damaged, and all the sectors associated with it have been damaged. On the other hand, our citizens have a high level of anxiety. And that's something that prevents the behavior of shopping. These processes have negative consequences in chains. Citizens face serious difficulties not only in their debt to the state, but also in paying debts to banks, private persons. Dear lawmakers, see, according to official data, as of May 2016, Turkey was unable to pay its individual loan debt from banks, so it has been pursued legally, and the number of real people who continue to pursue it is more than 1,700,000. Again, as of May 2016, due to his failure to pay off his credit card debt, he has been legally followed and has increased the number of real people who remain in legal pursuit by more than 2,100,000. Dear lawmakers, as a result, the July 15 coup attempt has also revealed that domestic warfare is not sustainable policies. In our country, permanent tax forgiveness, peacemaking are only temporary solutions, and the result is not attainable. What's important is our social peace before tax peace. As long as we maintain social peace on the basis of equal citizenship, tax peace will be achieved on its own. Because one of the main enemies of the economy is wars. We spend our savings on weapons and tension. The other situation leads to nothing but tension, conflict, blood and tears, and more poverty and more social trauma. We have to address all political parties from here. Because of this coup in Turkey, I consider it a plague, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly, as well as that dialogue with all parties should be carried out as soon as possible to end this conflicting process in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0139par0106	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0140par0108	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0139par0109	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, so I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0140par0111	There are 96 people, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0139par0112	The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article 5 of Law Proposal 409 be removed from the text of the article. Mevlüt Karakaya (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0141par0118	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0139par0119	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0142par0120	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0139par0121	Mevlüt Karakaya, Adana MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0143par0124	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the motion on Article 4 of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of Some Acquisitions. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, in fact, there's been a delay interest and pardons for fines in this article, one way or another. The truth is, I don't think sitting down and arguing about these rates is helping anyone. Because that's what it's really about, it's about beating water in the air. Look, the real problem here is talking about the results of the warped, biased and wrong system. We call it tax peace, we call it asset peace, we call it stock forgiveness, we call it tax forgiveness; so far, in the last 14 years, we've had five attempts at peace. We call it peace, so since there's peace, I guess there are some who are upset. Who's the beef here? Who's mad at who? He's angry with the citizen government. Why is he angry? The citizen couldn't pay his taxes, didn't pay his taxes, didn't pay his fine. Thus, he is offended by the state for failing to fulfill his financial obligations here. In fact, based on that logic, a citizen should be offended by the state, not by the state, but by the citizen. So, are we asking -- we're doing five peace tests, and then we're adding new ones, and before the process of the last one is complete -- why is this nation breaking down, and why isn't it paying taxes? It's a result of a warped and false system. Those who make it a habit, of course, but as far as we're concerned, there's no justice in the tax system. There are two basic components of the economy, in essence, one is production, the other is sharing the foot. You're going to have a high added value, high efficiency production, and you're going to divide that rightfully. So, is there a fair share? Look, we're reassessing one third of the illegitimate domestic product. So, can we talk about a fair, fair share in the formation of an illegitimate domestic patient? Let's just look at the injustices done in economics, in many areas, in the central exams we're talking about these days, have we been able to create a competitive environment? No. Let's see what aspect of life we're looking at. All of them have a lack of rights, an injustice. So what do we do with that one third of the illegitimate domestic patient we're collecting? We use some of it to public services, make transfers, distribute it again. For what purpose? He's a man of justice, a man of justice. Can we do that? No, we can't do that either. Dear lawmakers, see what the state has to say? Let's forgive, let's make peace. Is the citizen making up? No, we're bringing new ones. Well, what are we supposed to do then? First of all, we need to take this warped system as a whole, we need to bring in a fair tax system, we need to do it without rushing into any of this stuff. Look, when you look at the language in this proposal of the law, we see that there are all sorts of very serious errors, and there are many statements that can lead to misunderstandings. I'm going to take a little bit of this into the technical parts of the 6th Amendment, but now we have to put this peace on the shelves, like in modern countries, in modern countries, so we need to develop right, fair, right systems. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0144par0129	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 4th amendment of Article (2/1310) of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the available 409 rows will be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Cetin Osman Budak (Antalia) and his friends MADDE 4- (1) Regarding the times covered by this Law, the tax examinations that were not completed before the publication of this Law continue with the condition of keeping the provisions of this Law confidential for the increase in mathematics and taxes, even though they were not completed. After the completion of these transactions, 40% of all tariffs and 20% of the fine on tax-free fines will be applied in writing in 30 days from the date of the release of this law on the basis of the month-to-day change rates, as well as two months in the period set to start the hearing of the first instalment notice, and six months in the period set on the end of the hearing period of the hearing, all of which will be calculated until the end of the actual tax-responsible fines are imposed on non-trial sentences, and 80 per cent of the original tax fines are issued in writing, starting from the date of notice date of the first installment notice. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0145par0139	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0144par0140	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0146par0141	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0144par0142	Cetin Osman Budak, Antalya MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Budak.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0147par0144	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 4 of the Law Proposal 409. Once again, at the beginning of my speech, I curse the July 15 bloody coup attempt, honoring our nation, our lawmakers, our fellow citizens who have lost their lives. Turkey has been through a great deal. I hope our country will never face such negatives again. Such events are not solved by personal bail; such incidents are caused by turning to secularism, law, democracy, mind, science. If not, we risk facing the same nightmares in the coming period. And let me put it this way again: I want to express that we have a situation where we need to learn from it, especially from the AKP. Dear friends, I wish this coup attempt had actually cleared our path a little bit. In the name of democratization, in the name of the rule of law, I hope it has opened our way for justice, and I also wish that a social agreement, a social compromise, come out of here. Structural reforms have been mentioned for years, structural problems have been mentioned for years, reforms you haven't been able to step up in for years. So here we are, talking about our current situation, the 6th, the tax pardon. I'm not saying peace, because we're dealing with a series of pardons that have reached the point of disrupting business peace. Six pardons in 12 years? I'm a friend of yours who's been working in the private sector for 26 years. We must have faced more than 10, 20, pardons. I felt like a sucker every time. I'm a brother who pays his taxes every day and even pays his taxes on hard times. We're in the same situation again. So, if you don't put structural reforms in front of you in this period, I'd also like to say that if you miss structural reforms with the opposition, structural reforms from education to health, structural reforms from economic to social life again, there will be bigger problems ahead of us. Look, I'll give you a few digits here: After tax peace was made in 2003 -- six times -- there was a tax peace in the last 2014. What's going on now, so why is it happening? So you're looking at this, and you're thinking that maybe in these pardons, there's a 100 billion dollars in pardon time, and by the time you get to this point, it's up 58 percent, it's up to 158 billion. Taxes are unpayable. Why can't taxes be paid? Because there's nothing you've done to the little shopkeeper. So, I'm going to try to tell you this with an example here, the tourism industry. With all the wrong policies of power, foreign policy, domestic policy mistakes, you destroyed the investor who invested there, the tourist worker who worked there. Right now we're shaking hands with Russia. According to the last year, Antalya wrote just the number -- look, it was bad last year -- negative 97 percent, friends. Oh, Germany, Europe, what happened? From there, we wrote 500,000 minus from Germany. I want to say once again that neither the economy nor the country is ruled. Antalya, Cappadocia, İstanbul, Muğla, Aydın, people there can't bring bread to their homes, let alone pay taxes, can't bring bread to their homes; it's on the verge of bankruptcy. The Minister of Finance is here, and my other friends are here, and you haven't been here. There's no such thing in this package, the bottom-up tourism industry, the agricultural sector, you didn't do anything about it; pardon after pardon, tax forgiveness. I don't have time -- I don't have time -- to say something about indirect taxes. If you don't meet these structural reforms in the finances, you'll be equal to those with indirect taxes, minimum wage, $100,000 income. That is unfair, that is unfair. You can't achieve social peace here or tax peace here. So what is it? The economy can't be managed. So what is it? Finance policies can't be run like this, and there's no public finance management like this. That's why you get the tax from the winner. So the poor and the poor won't pay taxes on gasoline equal value. So, I'm here to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm not saying, all my friends said: I mean, I'm not saying that I'm here to give discounts to people who are decent, who are paying their own taxes. It's the running of the country that's going to think about it. You'll think about it, you'll do the procedure. I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0148par0156	Thank you, Mr. Budak. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 5 that I make to read the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5 of Law Proposal 409 (a) be replaced in the following way. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta The added value tax taxpayers declare the amount of VAT to be reduced after the reduction of the amount of delivery and services, which amounted to the amount of value from the amount of added value in their declarations on a period of taxation each year (inclusion records included) to the amount of value added tax, which was calculated by the amount of value added value, and the amount of VAT to be reduced to the amount of purchases of services, will be increased by 3 per cent for the year 6, 2012 per cent for the year of 2014 and 2 per cent for the year of 2015. It was me (c) of Article 11 of Level Value Tax Act 3065, dated 25/10/1984, and in determining the amount of increase in the number of taxpayers who benefit from the temporary application of absorption under Article 17 of Article 11 (c) and the tariffs are deducted from the calculated tax. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the 409 rows that are currently in place ( (2/1310) of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction (2/1310) of Article 5 (e.g.), the subtitle of the same article (3) (a) of the same article (a), and we propose that the same article (7) be changed and proposed as follows. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Selin Sayek Bühlun Tamayligil 25 per cent of the damage from the years of income and institutional tax hikers, 2016 and the years of monitoring are not allowed from their profits. (3) "a) The added value tax taxpayers state the value of their declarations on each tax period (including those given with legal records) by 1.75% for 2011, 1.5% for 2012, 1.5% for 2013, 1.25 per cent for 2014, and up to the end of the second month, not less than 0.75 per cent for 2015, after which the Law was issued as a tax increase. It was me (c) of Article 11 of Article 11 of Level Value Tax Law, dated 25/10/1984, and in determining the amount of increase in the number of taxpayers benefiting from the temporary application of absorption by Article 17 of Article 11 (c) and the tariffs are deducted from the tax calculated." (7) "For those of you who have not been concluded by this law as of the date of the tax reviews and appreciation proceedings, the first joke of this article (i) was mine (i) and the third joke (e) will not be kept secret." Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5 of Law Proposal 409 be removed from the proposal text. Ahmet Yıldırım İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Merkel Danış Beştaş Osman Baydemir Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0149par0187	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0148par0188	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0150par0189	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0148par0190	It's Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı, Bitlis MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0151par0193	Mr. President, on behalf of my party and my group, I have made a pledge on the 5th Amendment of Law Proposal 409, which is being discussed, with respect to the General Assembly and the public. Dear MPs, one of Turkey's biggest problems is injustice in the tax system. Unfortunately, the government refrained from taking responsibility when legislation is expected from the government to provide a permanent and fair solution to this unfair tax system. A general review of the law proposal shows that instead of preventing social injustice, it shows no good intentions towards a citizen who pays taxes by deepening it even further, especially when large capital groups are rewarded for not paying their taxes. Legally, however, there is a legal requirement to negotiate with a citizen, and if you want to take advantage of a tax grant to a citizen, withdraw your case. There is also an sanction to be applied. Any law proposal should not be used in a repressive language for legal gains. So, if a tax pardon is foreseen, it is not right to apply algebra to the law, which is the most fundamental norm of society, especially if the language is being used by a member of the ruling party. Draw up the case for tax forgiveness with the third article. You will benefit from the tax pardon, whether you file a document with the next article or use it. It is said that you will benefit from the tax pardon. The content of the proposal, on the one hand, give up legal gains for tax forgiveness. On the other hand, even though you are a criminal in the legal sense, you will benefit from a preconditional pardon. It is said that it creates a contradiction in itself. While the state should be fighting injustice and producing sound policies for the benefit of society, the opposite is being shown, and the society is being misled. Precious lawmakers are presented with an arrangement that is completely troubling when the 5th article is examined, which is expected to avoid irregularity with very small figures, by doing a mathematic increase, by not fulfilling its tax obligations, and by not paying the taxes that should be true. Such a situation is contrary to the principle of tax justice in the first place, so it will cause injustice between those who pay the tax properly and those who commit irregularities on the other hand, or rather, it will make the taxpayer regret it. It is an arrangement to eliminate both constitutional equality and tax harmonisation. The government, on the other hand, provides people with the obligation to pay taxes. With continuous tax pardons and cheap bargaining procedures, large areas of capital in particular are given great ease. These and such large pardons are regulations that violate fiscal discipline. The continuous tax forgiveness habit against major corporations also brings with it many irregularities in the tax field. For this reason, the procedures of free accountants, financial advisors, the books are also nullified, and the confirmation reports of sworn financial advisors have become meaningless, and the practice of irregularity is encouraged. Right now, as in many areas, irregularities are being tried to be put on a legal basis in both this substance and the following, and in other areas, it also eliminates justice in tax areas that do not exist in social areas. What we need to do here is not only to support capital and its institutions or to establish policies in this sense, but to at least be able to repay the responsible citizen. So at least that's what social morality, mind and logic command us to do. So it's not the right approach to saying that we're making it easier to pay taxes to the community, to erase the $430 million tax debt from Genghis Holdings in one pen. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0152par0200	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0153par0202	We just want a decision.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0152par0203	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, so I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's a difference of opinion among the clerks, I'll see if there's enough to decide if I'm going to vote with an electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0154par0209	Mr. President, I have a request for a statement according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0152par0210	Here's your microphone, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0154par0213	Thank you. Mr. President, as the People's Democratic Party Group, we would like to use our right to monitor the legislature of lawmakers at a time when Parliament is trying to be especially dysfunctional, as well as to block from the Civil Code of Law on a proposal we oppose as an opposition party. And for that, we've asked for a number of decisions a few times. And when I asked for the number of three decisions, I counted the MPs in the AKP Group, who did not exceed 96 people, 96, 90, 86, your Presidential Court, here's your Presidential Court, it's been decided, let's take an electronic vote. Now, this may happen once, it may seem pleasant, but when these next times are done, we face the rights of an opposition party. We have no doubt about your neutrality.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0152par0216	I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0154par0218	There's a positive, good, mutual, positive belief that you've shown an impartial government in the assessments of all Parliamentary General Assembly members, but I'm particularly reminding you that the fellow clerks sitting on the Presidential Court must be warned about this, that the members of the clerks sitting there should avoid the identity of the party and do their job seriously for an impartial government. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0152par0220	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The Council of Ministers shall count the votes in this vote, according to the Council of Ministers, in this vote, in the case of a decision-making vote or a decision-making vote in any way sufficient or a meeting-affiliated number. If there's a difference of opinion between the clerk members, naturally we have to vote with the electronic device. There has been a difference of opinion among the clerk members in our vote as Isari, so we voted with the electronic device. I don't think the clerks have any particular intention of acting on this matter, Mr. Baluken, but I received your warning. Of course, in the count of the votes, the Presidential Court will demonstrate the necessary attention, precision. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0155par0223	Mr. President, for the record, I didn't make up the numbers when I gave them to you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0152par0224	I never said that, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0155par0225	I've counted it every three times, and you've observed very well that when an electronic vote is taken, more of the MPs who aren't here are already passing through the hall. Thus, this is the case because the initial conclusions were not carefully carried out. We've just observed that a member of the Justice and Development Party in particular has given you an opinion while reading the paper. So we're asking for precision in these matters.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0152par0226	I understand, thank you. In fact, something happened, I'd like to point out that there was a difference of opinion between the clerk members in the two votes that were held a while ago, a clerk friend of ours. I stated that there was not enough to decide, and there was not enough to decide, so I took a break. Friends, warnings, of course, are a guide to the Presidential Court. These warnings will no doubt be taken into consideration by the Presidential Court. All our friends work here in good faith, sincerely. Thank you, guys. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the 409 rows that are currently in place ( (2/1310) of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction (2/1310) of Article 5 (e.g.), the subtitle of the same article (3) (a) of the same article (a), and we propose that the same article (7) be changed and proposed as follows. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz (Tokat) and his friends 25 per cent of the damage from the years of income and institutional tax hikers, 2016 and the years of monitoring are not allowed from their profits. The added value tax taxpayers state the value of their declarations on each taxation period (including those given with a legal record) by 1.75% for 2011, 1.5% for 2012, 1.5% for 2013, 1.25 per cent for 2014, and the second month for the year of 2015, not less than 0.75% for the year of the Law. It was me (c) of Article 11 of Article 11 of Level Value Tax Law, dated 25/10/1984, and in determining the amount of increase in the number of taxpayers who benefit from the interim application of absorption by Article 17 (c) and the tariffs are deducted from the calculated tax." (7) To those who had not been concluded as of the date when this law was published on tax reviews and commendations, the first joke of this article was mine (i) and the third joke (e) will not be kept under wraps. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0156par0242	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0152par0243	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0157par0244	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0152par0245	I'm having it read. The amendment is proposed in order to reduce the proportions of some jokes and bent provisions under the article in favour of the taxpayers. They will be able to increase taxes by 3.5 per cent for 2011, 3.3 per cent for 2012, 2.5 per cent for 2013, 2.5 per cent for 2014, 1.5 per cent for 2015, through the VATs in the statement. However, because of the amount of revenues in some workplaces, the tax can be very high, and in turn, the profits are very low. For example, even though the wholesale iron trade has a huge amount of profits, the profitability rates are around 1 per cent. It is possible to include sectors such as fuel trade or many wholesale trades. In this case, the VAT height, which has been calculated and thus calculated, will prevent the law from reaching its expected goal if VAT increases in many sectors, will cause an injustice in terms of the taxpayers operating in these areas. The ratios for VAT increase will be reduced by at least 50 per cent, reaching between 0.75 per cent and 1.75 per cent as of the years. It is also stated that the law proposal will not be completed in a month's time, when tax reviews and appreciation procedures have been launched in accordance with Article 5 (7) of the law's clause (7) and cannot be completed in the beginning of the month following the date of which the law has been published. It's possible that this could lead to significant injustices. Because he will have to endure the results predicted by a small number of tax reviews, or by the decision of the appreciation commission, which has been completed during the time envisioned in the proposal of the law, while it will be given a significant advantage to the taxpayers who have not been completed. On the other hand, when credit or examination results in other examinations, negative thoughts may arise as to the result of the ongoing study on him. Therefore, it is important to arrange that non-finished proceedings will not be continued on the date of the law's release, without any deadlines for the completion of tax reviews and appreciation procedures that have been launched prior to the release of the law. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that the 5th article of the current law proposal, 409, shall be changed in the following way. Master Erhan (Samsun) and his friends (a) Keep the amount of VAT to be reduced after the reduction of the amount of VAT, which has earned the added value tax from the amount of added value in the declarations issued each year on a period of taxation (including those given with registration) and the amount of value added and services which have been hit by the amount of purchases, will be reduced by the second month's release of this law, which will be increased by 3.2% for 6, 2012 per cent for the year 4, 2014 for the year 3 per cent for the year and 2 per cent for the year 2015. According to Article 11 of the Article 11 (c) and Article 17/10/1984 of Level Value Tax Act 3065, the tariffs are deducted from the tax. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0158par0261	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0152par0262	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0159par0263	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0152par0264	Erhan Sensei wants to talk about the motion, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0160par0267	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are now being ordered to increase the matrix. What's a matherah increase? In short, the government says: "No matter how much tax you pay, let me calculate again, give a little more, let's make peace, and let's not study back for five years." That's the bottom line. Of course, the taxes here are now covered by institutional tax, income tax and added value tax. There's a logic error here. As much as you've given the tax, as much as you've expressed it, let's say you're increasing your math by 35 percent for 2011 on corporate tax, income tax. So, if you've missed a little bit of the tax, let's say that you're making peace there by paying lower taxes; honest taxpayers have shown the taxpayer tax as it is; let's say it's high, or let's say it's still taxed, but I don't have to deal with the Ministry of Finance, and when they say, "Let's apply to this math increase," they have to make peace with the government by giving a lot more tax. There's a logic error here; I passed it on to the Commission. Of course, it's a bit difficult to apply, but it's actually in the sectors here, if you take an average tax off of a certain group of taxpayers, and actually, you know, if you pay more tax, I don't study backwards. There's a logic here. In this case, I think this clause is unfair. Now, of course, injustice already exists, it's all there is to it. We're always saying that you're punishing honest taxpayers. Our motion for this has not been accepted either by the Commission or by the General Assembly. In fact, it was a very big obligation to have it in this law, and in my opinion, it's not going to happen anywhere else. So when we get a pardon law out, I'm thinking, "I wish I could get a five-point discount for citizens who pay their taxes three years in a row and never miss their taxes." We had another motion on the commission. When you went to the VAT increase, the tax was expected to be paid in advance. We submitted a motion for an installment there, and the Ministry found our motion reasonable, and that motion was accepted in the Commission; and I thank you for it. Now we're actually waiting for the same understanding to come up with this motion. Maybe the Ministry didn't have a lot of access to it, but I did mention it at the Commission again. These friends that are being made here are now. Especially in the VAT matherah increase, let's say you have an oil station, you have a $100,000 VAT matrix; so let's make peace by increasing it by 3.5 percent for 2011. But the profit margins between sectors or the added values of the company can be very different. There's a difference between very low-profit margins and very high-profit margins or VAT sectors that work with added value, so there's a serious injustice going on here. So what we're proposing here is that there's a calculated value tax, and the current law says to increase it over the added value tax. So we say, there's a value value tax to be downloaded with the calculated added value tax. For what? We propose that we take the value tax that will be downloaded on them, over the difference, and more than anticipated in this proposal, as limited to the surrender and services that have created the calculated added value tax. So there was something that the Minister had expressed in the Commission, which could be above the added value tax that was calculated to be downloaded from time to time, and there was a time of value to add. There's no such thing here. So let's reduce the amount of value tax for which goods and services are delivered, and let's go down the value tax on them, and let's go to an increase on the added value created in between. Let's raise the tax on what's at stake here and not to lose the tax. For example, we're predicting that we're going to increase 3.5 to 6 percent. At least we'll get justice in ourselves. And we're getting some serious complaints here. For example, this suggestion came to me from the Samsun Financial Advisors' Room. I think it's important for the operation and for the relief of the taxpayers. In that sense, could it be again, to the administration, to this motion of ours? How can it be? I would also like to advise him to look more carefully. Thus, we may be able to resolve a problem in this way. Thank you for your concern.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0161par0273	Thank you, Mr. Master. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 5 is accepted. There are four motions on the 6th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of "other transactions related to them" to come after the first sentence of the 6th article of the proposed Law Proposal (a) shall be replaced by the amount of transactions taken in other accounts, including the amount of the same joke (a) in which I am entitled to receive." Mehmet Mush Vedat Demirözü Murat Baybatur Necip Shield Nihat Ozturk Emrullah Business Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article (1) of Article 6 of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the currently held 409 rows. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Selin Sayek Bühlun Tamayligil MADDE 6- (1) The following provisions for goods, machinery, equipment and fixtures, which are not included in the records, although available in the business: A) The income and institutional tax collectors (including public, common and common commando companies) can register in their books until the end of the third month, with an inventory list following the date of which the law has been published, including the property, machinery, equipment, and smithy that has not been recorded in their accounts, or by the occupational institution. The amortism for the value included in the notification is inseparable. On the basis of the balance sheet, the taxpayers open a special response account for the property they have registered to their assets under the (a) bendi provisions of this joke, separate from the machine, equipment, and smithy. The response for the goods is an element of capital and is not taxed if it is distributed to partners or the business is dissolved. The machine, the equipment and the fixtures are stored in inventory, and the separated amortism is added in return. And those who keep a record [of goods] in store for them. C) This joke is declared in accordance with the (a) bendi; 10% of the price of the general machine, equipment, smithereens and goods, the other machine, equipment, and half of the rates which are subject to the price of irons and goods, are calculated and paid in a separate declaration period, and is paid in a separate declaration. This tax, paid on machine, equipment, and fixtures, cannot be deducted from the calculated added value tax. Taxes paid on the property are downloaded on the general basis. Article 9 of Article 9 of Article 3065 does not apply to this property, the machine, the equipment and the fixtures. ) If the value of this joke (a) is sold, the price of sale cannot be lower than the value recorded in the book. D) The special consumption tax of the taxpayers who declare the property of this particular consumption tax (a) as part of this joke (a) and do not register the purchase documents on the basis of the declaration date of these goods and at the cost of the precedent does not apply as a separate statement of Article 4 of the 4rd Article of the Special Conspiracy Tax Act in order that they pay for it in the same amount of time, according to the term specified by this joke (c). Tax fines are not issued for the special consumption tax paid in such a manner. e) This joke does not apply a tax penalty for the implementation of the sentence. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of Law Proposal 409 be replaced in the following manner by Article (1) (c) and add the following joke to the article. Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta Mevlüt Karakaya Erkan Akçay Mehmet Erdoğan İsmail Faruk Aksu "c) The price of this joke (a) is calculated on the basis of the price of the machine, equipment, smithereens and properties, half of the rates of which it is required to add value tax and to be declared responsible for a separate declaration, which is paid during the notice period. This tax, paid by machine, equipment, ironworks and commodity, is deducted from the calculated added tax. This property does not apply the sentence of Article 9 of Article 9 of Article 3065 of the Law (2) for machinery, equipment and fixtures." "It is not limited to the responsibility of sworn financial advisors and independent auditors and independent auditors who have carried out the report if a full confirmation report on their previous term or an independent audit report is filed within the framework of the terms of this Article 5) if the business records are corrected within the framework of these provisions." Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 6 of Law Proposal 409 be removed from the proposal text. Ahmet Yıldırım İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Merkel Danış Beştaş Osman Baydemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0162par0315	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0161par0316	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0163par0317	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0161par0318	To talk about the motion, Coral Danış Beştaş, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0164par0321	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm not going to discuss the bill, I'm going to express my opinion on a few current issues. Yes, a bag of laws was presented to the Parliament yesterday, and this bag was executed in two provinces of the law: Şırnak and Hakkari. Who made this decision, why? Why was it in this bag of laws that the two provinces were changed, and the province of Cizre and Turkey? No one knows about this. But we know, with security and political concerns, this decision has been made. At this time, in Şırnak and Hakkari, the public expressed that they had met the decision with a genuine response and would never accept it. While the destruction is still going on in Şırnak and Hakkari, while the bodies are still waiting in the morgues, it is absolutely impossible to accept that this decision was made only because of security and through political accounts, while the state has sent only military and security personnel to them. This decision aims directly at the political and cultural identity of cities, both cities. It is indeed a decision to punish the state for its oppression and persecution, for its assimilation, for its denial, and in this way, indeed, the right to participate in the decisions made about democracy itself, which we have defended from our place and are not necessarily necessary. A decision called Hakkari and Şırnak will be the province of Cirre and Yüksekova to a bag of laws in Ankara. One decision is ordered and thus demonstrates their approach to Şırnak and Hakkari (Khakari) and other Kurdish provinces once again. That's how centrifugalism, one-handed management, and political concerns become punishment for the public. But we would like to say from Ankara, and from Parliament that, really, Şırnak and Cizre are too vast to fit in bags. You will never succeed in this matter. Of course, Cizre and Yüksekova must be a province, it must be opened up, but it also reveals how much weakness it is to try to sell it to Şırnak and Hakkari, especially to Colemerg. There's been another issue recently: the national union, the will of the people, the opposition to the coup of the House, has become a gumball that political parties have been talking about at every turn. It really is. Yes, in Turkey, against the coupgers, against this terrible coup attempt, it was the Parliament's reflex that we all have shown together, that it was to uphold democracy. This coup was not just a coup against the ruling party and the presidency, it was a coup against all citizens of Turkey, it was a coup against all political parties, and we accept an argument, such as whether someone sided with the ruling party or didn't. Our position on this is clear. But the fact that only three parties meet in palaces under the name of this national union, to make a Constitution for 79 million in secret, and then serve it to the press without telling the name of our party reveals what they understand about the union. If you look at history so far, Kurdish hostility has not given anyone. In history, alliances have always opened the way for the country. Right now, these decisions are common enemies to the people, to the Kurds, to the Kurdish people. We're not here because of the favor of anyone, we're not here by your will and grace. We came here because of the choice of the will of the people like you. And being on the Constitutional table is not a matter we're going to ask of you, not a matter we're going to beg of you. We're sitting there as a right. We're looking at legislature as rights and representation. Therefore, Kurdish hostility will not win you or anyone else. If you ignore the 25 million, I assure you, we will continue to face many more coup attempts and will not be able to reach peace. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0165par0330	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0166par0331	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0165par0332	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, but since the decision is required, I'm going to look for the number of votes in the motion vote: those who agree... those who refuse... Since there's a difference of opinion among the clerks on the count of the votes, I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of Law Proposal 409 be replaced in the following manner by Article (1) (c) and add the following joke to the article. Mevlüt Karakaya (Adana) and his friends "c) The price of this joke (a) is calculated on the basis of the price of the machine, equipment, smithereens and properties, half of the rates of which it is required to add value tax and to be declared responsible for a separate declaration, which is paid during the notice period. This tax, paid by machine, equipment, ironworks and commodity, is deducted from the calculated added tax. This property does not apply the sentence of Article 9 of Article 9 of Article 3065 of the Law (2) for machinery, equipment and fixtures." "It is not limited to the responsibility of sworn financial advisors and independent auditors and independent auditors who have carried out the report if a full confirmation report on their previous term or an independent audit report is filed within the framework of the terms of this Article 5) if the business records are corrected within the framework of these provisions." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0167par0344	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0165par0345	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0168par0346	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0165par0347	Mevlüt Karakaya, Adana MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0169par0350	Mr. President, dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the motion that is being discussed, and I salute you all. The motion is specifically related to the tax rate on the value-appropriation value tax on this clause (c) and the fact that the tax rates on the assets that are subject to normal tax rates are on the same basis; and the other is due to the full confirmation of what sworn financial advisors and independent auditors have done about earlier times. So, sworn financial advisors, independent auditors have confirmed the financial tables from earlier times, and because of this tax pardon today -- right or wrong, because we're not going to ask anything -- they should not be responsible for making a thorough entrance, demanding a correction of the records tomorrow, in the past period, because you have not seen these stock entrys or exits or any of the assets that have caused them to recuperate. That has to be considered and added here. We call it the 5th joke, and hopefully in the vote, it'll be respected. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I just said I'd mention the language when I made a promise on the 4th Amendment. I'd like to bring a few things to your attention. So, in fact, this 6th article has two basic regulations. There's someone, there's a business, there's stock, there's supplies, but there's no record of them. On the other side, it's on the record, but there's no stock, no goods, no machines, no facilities. It's about fixing these. The subject was already under the subtitle of fixing the operating records. However, as we look at the arrangement here, this is not the language of international financial reporting standards or Turkey's financial reporting standards. And at this point, I would like to say that the Ministry of Finance has to be more careful about things that concern tax and accounting, about the registration system, and to use the right language, because when we look at the corrections here, they're all written in tax language. For example, look, in this way, based on the ruling on this clause, a recording machine says that an amortism about equipment is not separated. But in international accounting standards, of course, the amortism will be separated. The Amortisman cannot be separated. I don't know what the Ministry of Finance's intention is to say, are they listening, are they following -- the purpose here is to express that it cannot be reduced from the tax system. Tell me that, then. On the one hand, you're going to spend the world's money through the Public Surveillance Agency, and you're going to pay for it, you're going to try to bring in a registration system, a financial reporting system that fits international financial reporting standards, and you're going to have to enforce tax accounting by law. There's a lot of examples. An injustice in this practice -- one of our orator just mentioned again -- injustices in other matters -- is in stocks, for example, of goods, and if not in the records, that means a billless sale. Well, it's in stocks, and if it's not in storage, that means off-the-book entry. The benefits of fixing these two are completely different, completely unfair. Well, there's a lot more to be said, technically, and there's a lot to be said about language. I wanted to settle here by giving you a couple of examples. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0170par0357	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article (1) of Article 6 of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the currently held 409 rows. Ancient Durmaz (Tokat) and his friends MADDE 6- (1) The following provisions for goods, machinery, equipment and fixtures, which are not included in the records, although available in the business: A) The income and institutional tax collectors (including public, common and common commando companies) can register in their books until the end of the third month, with an inventory list following the date of which the law has been published, including the property, machinery, equipment, and smithy that has not been recorded in their accounts, or by the occupational institution. The amortism for the value included in the notification is inseparable. On the basis of the balance sheet, the taxpayers open a special response account for the property they have registered to their assets under the (a) bendi provisions of this joke, separate from the machine, equipment, and smithy. The response for the goods is an element of capital and is not taxed if it is distributed to partners or the business is dissolved. The machine, the equipment and the fixtures are stored in inventory, and the separated amortism is added in return. And those who keep a record [of goods] in store for them. C) This joke is declared in accordance with the (a) bendi; 10% of the price of the general machine, equipment, smithereens and goods, the other machine, equipment, and half of the rates which are subject to the price of irons and goods, are calculated and paid in a separate declaration period, and is paid in a separate declaration. This tax, paid on machine, equipment, and fixtures, cannot be deducted from the calculated added value tax. Taxes paid on the property are downloaded on the general basis. Article 9 of Article 9 of Article 3065 does not apply to this property, the machine, the equipment and the fixtures. ) If the value of this joke (a) is sold, the price of sale cannot be lower than the value recorded in the book. D) The special consumption tax of the taxpayers who declare the property of this particular consumption tax (a) as part of this joke (a) and do not register the purchase documents on the basis of the declaration date of these goods and at the cost of the precedent does not apply as a separate statement of Article 4 of the 4rd Article of the Special Conspiracy Tax Act in order that they pay for it in the same amount of time, according to the term specified by this joke (c). Tax fines are not issued for the special consumption tax paid in such a manner. e) This joke does not apply a tax penalty for the implementation of the sentence. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0171par0371	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0170par0372	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0172par0373	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0170par0374	I'm reading the reason: A change is recommended to make the material text understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now I'm going to read the fourth and final motion on the item: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of "other transactions related to them" to come after the first sentence of the 6th article of the proposed Law Proposal (a) shall be replaced by the amount of transactions taken in other accounts, including the amount of the same joke (a) in which I am entitled to receive." Mehmet Mush (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0173par0383	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0170par0384	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0174par0385	We agree, we agree.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0175par0386	Motive...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit05spe0170par0387	I'm reading the reason: A motion is made to ensure that records can be corrected, even though there are no safe deposit boxes available in the business, and other transactions related to the shareholders. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the amendment to the motion, I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Subsequent 6 has been accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one are complete. I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0170par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 122nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 409 from where we left off. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers the 7th and 13th Articles. I will now meet your demands on chapter two. First, I'll promise political party groups, then I'll give my word to the members of parliament who have asked for word on their behalf. On behalf of the groups, the first voice belongs to İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu (Ismail) on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0176par0011	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the second part of Law Proposal 409. I salute our beloved nation and all of you worthy members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Eighteen days have passed since the attempt to drag Turkey into an internal conflict, the treacherous coup against our democracy, and the attempt to attack the Turkish nation. During that time, separatist traitors are continuing from where they left off. Since the coup attempt on July 15, 36 citizens have been killed in total, including 19 police officers and 17 soldiers. At the beginning of my speech, I offer my condolences to our police and soldiers who have been killed by the traitorous attacks of the separatist terrorist organization PKK. Dear lawmakers, the reason for the proposal of the law that we are discussing is to reduce the public debt burden of the private sector and pay the debt in installments to ensure that investors are more focused on improving decisions on improving the investment environment, and to encourage the transition of business records into a registered economy, and to bring certain assets into the national economy, without going to trial. The arrangement is one of the most comprehensive of all that has been established in the restructuring of public receivables so far. Giving up all or part of what the public will receive shows that it is a financial pardon as part of the scope of the law proposal. If the proposal is legalized, it will be possible to restructure and subsidies on June 2016 and the months before the release of this law, which has not been paid even before the release of this law, and will receive a fine of delays and delays related to it. As it is known, the arrangement for the introduction of money, gold, purchases and other capital vehicles to Turkey has been made earlier on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but it has been removed from the Charter for Advention of some Laws in order to improve the Investment Environment during discussions in the General Assembly, and this time the same arrangement has been extended. The substance provides a way for real and legal people to save these assets, including money, gold, foreign currency, securities and other capital markets, to bring all kinds of ships, yachts and other water vehicles to Turkey by 31 December 2016. The regulation guarantees that there will be no investigation, investigation, or prosecution, no tax and administrative fines, due to the process of bringing the specified assets to Turkey and moving from this process to any form of tax review and tax history. I mean, banks and customs aren't going to report suspects for assets that come from abroad on their own channel. This article will not be investigated whether the entity was born from a black money or a criminal economy, as well as that it would be given the opportunity and the opportunity to bring assets from criminal activities against Turkey and humanity into Turkey. In addition, real and corporate individuals will be able to report or declare these assets to other people's names or accounts. Without a requirement to become a Turkish citizen, foreign citizens will also have the opportunity to launder their questionable money. Again, it is possible that the elements brought to Turkey could be brought back out of Turkey at any moment. As such a quality, it will not be possible to provide the expected economic benefit. Dear lawmakers, in the recession environment of the economy, we have been positive about the entry of assets abroad to create resurgence and dynamics in the country's economy and to meet the need for hard-to-resource resources, but we have never found the understanding that the assets may have been brought into the national economy at any cost, which may have been obtained from criminal activities. I would like to point out that it is not right for the majority of the community to be compressed among the substances that we have been waiting for, and that we have placed in our election declaration as the National Action Party, and that we have already brought up, and that we have contributed to during the commission talks, and that it is not right for the ethics, principles, and values that politics needs to be consolidated. As it is known, leaders at the G20 Summit gathered in Antalya, agreed on mutual exchange of information on financial accounts, pledging that they would adopt the automatic information exchange system and start sharing information with other countries after 2018. In this case, the question arises as to whether illegally obtained revenues are intended to be laundered before Turkey passes through this system. Again, since the names of the owners are wanted to remain public, it is another question that arises from the fact that there is a shameful situation for beings. And finally, the issue of the black money investigation, which we learned from the press and apparently was conducted in Italy, is another issue that raises question marks. If these and such questions are not answered, this arrangement will not be accepted in the ultimate conscience, nor will it be considered a race in the presence of peace rather than laundering. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's most important economic problem today is the failure to implement enough mechanisms to rotate its production wheels. The hot money inflow, known as portfolio investment, has a low impact on the economy's production capacity rather than on productive foreign direct investment, which is expected to come to our country, also poses the risk of causing a crisis due to the possibility of hot money coming out of the economy very soon. The lack of domestic capital and the expected lack of foreign capital have resulted in the problem of production in the economy today. In the framework of these structural problems, the justice of the tax system must be one of Turkey's primary goals, but during the AKP, tax justice was not achieved and the informal economy grew, while the taxpayers in the system were more taxed, and the tax base was not expanded. In the tax system, injustice and the regulations that have been made create a constant expectation of restructuring, which is both a result of delaying obligations and an injustice to those who fulfill their obligations. As a matter of fact, when such arrangements are being made, a mechanism that will reward our citizens who pay their taxes regularly, fulfill their obligations, and thus contribute to the deployment of tax justice and consciousness has not, unfortunately, been created. Of course, investment is needed to expand the economy, and resources are needed for investment. The problem is that our country's domestic resources -- internal savings -- have been reduced to the lowest levels in the country's history during the AKP administrations. Another problem is the lack of confidence in democracy, the legal system, the functioning of governance, the quality of the workforce, transparency and predictability, which is the key factors for investors. The facility of a functioning and trusted economy is only possible if these basic problems are overcome. Dear lawmakers, instead of solving structural problems, it would be unbecoming of Turkey's size and the dignity of the Turkish nation to seek help from an uncertain presence entry. Thus, it would be appropriate to remove the item from the proposal text, as stated earlier in the talks. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0177par0026	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Garo Paylan is an Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0178par0030	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yeah, the law we're talking about is tax forgiveness and property peace. How do you collect taxes? In economics, people consume, they produce as they consume, the wheels work, they enter the economy, they invest in industry, they increase their investments, and eventually there's taxes. If there's trust, there's tax work, so trust is the key word, trust the country and trust the economy. When there's no trust, and at the same time, of course, when there's no tax ethics, you can't collect taxes. This kind of tax peace is the kind of peace that corrodes tax ethics, and it's unfortunately what's lacking in our country right now. Look, the consumer trust index was announced in July, dropped to 67 percent. The consumer doesn't trust, and when he doesn't trust, he doesn't consume. Car sales are down 30 percent this month, housing sales are the same way, retailer's crying blood, shopper's bleeding. We also have a bad habit of keeping our businesses strong, because we're in the rant economy, where everyone bets on what they earn on a good day, housing investment, car investment. Let's put it in the land, there's going to be construction there, there's going to be $20 worth of land, there's going to be 10 lira. We couldn't stop Rant's economy because we don't tax tariffs. We don't get taxes from a land where it goes from $10 to $50. Who do we get taxes from? We collect taxes from workers, laborers. Yesterday, I couldn't convince Mr. Finance Minister to give a $1 billion minimum wage figure that he would give to the worker in exchange for $40 billion in forgiveness for capital. We met again inside, and he's not convinced again. Let's give the capital $40 billion an advantage, but unfortunately for the worker, there's no minimum wage, and that's what we want, not high-income. And, of course, with the peace of existence, we will provide the country with money. How do we get it? If a country is glowing, a country's legal system is sound, its institutions are right, its democracy works, money comes into that country. Those who don't trust this country, those who say there's a risk to this country, they're taking it out. Can you imagine, now that our country has suffered a coup, unfortunately we have suffered a coup by creating conditions, and after the coup, we say, "Come, bring the money, we won't ask you." That's not how it works, guys. Trust is not trust in a person, it's trust in the system, it's trust in the legal system, it's trust in Parliament. Is Parliament functioning? I'm talking in empty rows, it's not working. They'll be here soon as the guys vote, but it doesn't work. The instructions because, unfortunately, they're determined in the palace. Anyway, Mr. President, we're going to rebuild at the palace, we're going to pass economic laws from Parliament. He said, "Yesterday, he exposed it." Look, the only person who says, "I've been tricked, God forgive me." Yes, people can be wrong, even the President, but the systems are not wrong. If institutions work, if democracy works, if there's consultations, if people listen to each other, there's a better chance that they're wrong there, but if the point that we've come over the will of one person in a year is a coup... At the reconstruction point, the only person who says, "I'm going to do it." Why should we, I made a mistake, God forgive me. Why should he? It's the Capitol first, it's here, but when we look at it, we're a long way from it, and we see that there's no lesson to be learned from it. Dear friends, let's see where our economy is.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0179par0035	You'll call the martyrs who gave their lives theater, call the coup theater, you'll come here and talk to them. You'll call it theater, you'll have no respect for these people.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0178par0036	There are 4.5 growth targets, Your Majesty.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0180par0037	Who says theater, where do you think it is? There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0179par0038	What did the furrier say?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0180par0039	Yeah, what's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0181par0040	Go ahead and talk to him.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0182par0041	Mr. Paylan, go ahead. Please, members of parliament, listen to the speaker, please.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0181par0043	Congressmans, isn't our economic growth goal this year 4.5? It's still supposed to be, but unfortunately, the signs aren't there. Our economy will grow by three percent or less, giving signs at this point because trust is low, investments have stopped. Inflation rose to 8.79 per cent in July, far above our goals. Turkey's short-term debt is rising, and Turkey's CDS bonus is rising because its proportion of illegal domestic revenues has also risen. Look, I want to underline one more point. We're members of the G20, aren't we? Now it's always said: "We moved the country into the first 20 economies. " Our country ranked 16 in 1979 and was ranked 17 in 1993 and 17 in the year 2000. As we look at it today, with today's figures, our country has fallen to the 19th place. At the end of this year, we've fallen into the 19th economy. We call it G20, 19 countries plus the European Union. I mean, our country's about to drop out of G20. In this sense, what can improve the investment climate is the way to build a country where our country is lit up again, glittering, investments are rising, where both domestic capital and foreign capital are invested, where our workers and workers can get their dues, through democracy, the rule of law, and the system works. What should we do about it, what is the solution? We must give up the will of one man. We must stop Ankara being such an important place. Each country will have a capital, of course, but in democracies, a capital coordinator is the capital; it defines basic policies, establishes border security, sets the legal system, but distributes the powers to the locals. But now we see -- we've heard from the news today -- there's a new bag of legislation coming in, a law that considers placing trustees on the ground, let alone increasing the rights of the locals, and it's about to be brought to our Parliament. I can appoint trustees, he says. And who will he appoint? He's giving the governor the authority. This is a coup, fellas. That's exactly what these coupgers are gonna do. At this point, Ankara should not be able to gather all the authority, rather than distribute the rights where we should be. No one brings money to a country like this, we can make as much peace as we want, and no one will trust it and bring money to the country. And then there's this point when we've been restructuring, and we've been going through this for years: this judge, sir, this nationalist, this judge, the Fethullahist, this court judge, we've never been able to get out of the Fethullahist police station. When we confronted a police officer, we didn't know if he was a democratic cop, a law-abiding cop, or a legal judge until today. We're also looking at a reconstruction point where there's no understanding, no pluralistic understanding. And I'm saying this blow can't fit into the parallel. Look, it's like it's the first time it's been exposed. Everything's a bad thing... of course there are impressions that he's involved in it, in every sense, at the point of the Fethullah, a scapegoat is presented, and it's as if it was the first time it was a coup, and in the country, it's as if there was no mind of a coup. In this sense, the only way to deal with the tradition of coup and the coup d'état is without democratization. However, we see that there is an understanding that ignores HDP. The Constitution is being spoken, the AKP, CHP, and the MPP Constitutional Commission have established. Good luck with that. That's the kind of understanding that a coupger would want, even if it was a coupger, that's what they'd do. He would have ignored one representation, replaced another, polarized society and ignored someone. But that's discrimination and that's separatism, my friends.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0183par0047	After the coup, the Turkish flag must be waved, the Turkish flag. You must go out with the Turkish flag. You're the other one.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0181par0048	Do you know how the HDP votes are in the region, where we have received 80 per cent of the vote, in the areas where we have received 80 per cent of the vote? It'll break the bonds of the heart, my friends. Let's not lose heart. I say we get rid of this coup d'état, coup d'état. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0184par0051	Thank you, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0185par0052	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0184par0053	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0185par0054	During Mr. Paylan's speech, there was a claim that the three parties had established a joint Constitutional Commission, and some of the answers that came at the same time would leave our party under suspicion. I'd like to clarify that, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0184par0055	I can't promise to clarify. If there's a tease, I'll...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0185par0056	Sir, three parties have gathered together, you have set up a commission by exclusioning HDP. It's a taunt to our party, and I want to answer it.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0184par0057	So you're saying the sentences he said in the sequel?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0185par0058	Yes, sir, yes.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0186par0059	Tell me what you said about aggressive understanding.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0184par0060	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0187par0065	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Paylan, say that three parties met for a constitutional amendment, their own parties were excluded, and it was a product of a couptarian understanding. First of all, I'm on the stand to state the position of our party right here. The constitutional amendment, the idea of the mini-constitutional package, was expressed by our Mr. President at that meeting at which the President's invitation and brought criticism of HDP's non-participation. We must make a mini-constitutional amendment to the high judiciary delivered to the congregation under the referendum of September 12, 2010, based on the needs of law science, the need of the justice system, the need of the world's universal standards, and a system of verifiable rise to justice and high judgment. The proposal is ours. This proposal was later approved by the ruling party, and it has been decided that a study will be carried out. The idea of the Republican People's Party is clear that the four parties will be conducted together. Other than that, the Prime Minister's constitutional table is now in effect re-established. In its final session against his approach, Mr. President-General stated that it is not possible for us to sit at a Constitutional table, the first four articles of the Constitution, the parliamentary system and the coup law, without these preconditions. Our institutional party position on the fact that the constitutional settlement table should be with the participation of four parties has not changed. May I present the attention of all our MPs, the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0188par0069	Thank you, Mr. Special. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bihlun Tamaylıgil, İstanbul MP... [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Tamayligil, you have a request to speak on behalf of your own person. That's why I'm consolidating the two times. Your speech time is 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0189par0078	Mr. President, I'm here to share our views on Law Proposal 409, which is currently in session. I salute the High Council. Of course, this is a law proposal or a bill in which we should begin with an interrogation. If you look at the weighty part of the proposal of the law, it's an arrangement where there are pardons, under the head of configurations, where we see the weight of a process of forgiveness, rather than a commitment to the continuity of a tax and citizenship mission that will carry its sustainability with it. Mr. Finance Minister, at the point where this would come as a bill, I think they took it for granted because they said there would be absolutely no amnesty law in March of this year. To ensure the validity of the formal and legal consistency of these statements -- I think they themselves -- are our group vice president of the Justice and Development Party, and again, by preparing a proposal to the Honorable President of our Commission, they have made this legislation come to the agenda, and when you look at it legally, of course, the offer, but when you look at it, as a member of the Commission, I have shown every reason, every detail, every suggestion, as part of our ministry's responsibility until change. Now, when we look at the second chapter where I'm going to express our views on me, of course, we see the contents of a legal arrangement that has been established before, in order to improve the investment environment, which has also emerged in the process of a bag of legislation, which will provide funding for Turkey from abroad, along with it, in parallel to this pardon law. Now, then it was the law to improve the investment environment. What's the healing for? So there's a disease. And in order to cure this disease, we need a cure. As he performs the treatment, it is clear and clear that, as is what is now done, the temporary, periodical, day-saving legislative activities will not prepare a permanent visionary strategic future. Then when we discuss that proposal of law, it will be brought from abroad and we will make the peace of non-tax property. Once again, we have expressed our reservations here as all opposition parties regarding the resources of the tax-free entity peace, because we have gone through a period of work that clearly emphasizes the risk of bringing into the country the resources of terrorism, financing or drug trafficking, and the risk of the process, which is going to take place in terms of international agreements, directives, and structures that we are part of over the years. Now, at this point where we're here, I know that our Finance Ministry is still working on this, especially with precision, and we've come to know the future of new arrangements for the future of the choices we've seen in the substance content of ships and marine vehicles that we've now seen under the heading of the national economy. When you look at it first, we'll see if it's within the law that it's going to be a better arrangement than the past, even if not all of its risks are very important in terms of international law. But we also need to remember that our country, in its present time, has to be temporarily, in its present time, to save the present, and not to think about the logic of preventing future problems. Because if the solutions to solving a problem are problematic, they'll come to worse conclusions, and they'll say that's the best we can do, and there's no way to achieve success without looking at it rationally. Now, when you look at the content of that substance, there are even more painful things, so it's just that when you look at it at the black money point, there are things that are scary, there are things that are scary, and there are things in the material content that say that people who are in debt can pay off with their money abroad. So, why is the money we're going to give the national economy out of the country? I mean, why is he staying abroad? Is exporting, importing, staying for related transactions, or is he staying for debt payments, or is our functioning economic system unreliable, being held for the pause of insecurity? Now, look, the $180 billion private sector in Turkey has an open position, and when you look at the balance sheets, there's a 75 per cent increase in financing costs for 500 major industrial companies from last year. In addition, 63 per cent of activity revenues go as a currency difference and financing payment. So, it's also said, sir, that these companies have money abroad, they keep it there, and in return they bring funds to Turkey as a loan. This resource is used here, both tax-deprived and avoidance and -- both sides -- when you look at it, honey pie comes in. Now, we say: "Aman, turn these off; you didn't pay taxes, you already ran this system. Now, bring this to us, and we will not receive five cents in taxes on your sheep's balance. But in our country, where tax injustice prevails -- indirect taxes on tax dollars, laborers, civil servants, pensioners -- in international literature called tax anesthesia, which people are unaware of -- we are drawing a resource to this country with zero, zero, unpayable taxes. Oh, and, uh, let's not forget, there's been an announcement soon, Panama papers. What were those documents? There are some people out there who pay lower taxes, where they're not included in the tax system, you know, the paradise of the island, where the names are different, where they keep their money and their transactions. But here, the grasshopper began to process a process within the OECD and the Council of Europe and those structures that we are part of, like, two jumps, three jumps, and then, like, can't jump, and that process is the automated information exchange system. Now, at the latest, the automatic information exchange system will begin to operate by 2018, and all operations within this system will become manageable, including information. Oh, before that, we have a concept of a foreign institution that's been controlled by our legislation, which is that when there's a full-fledged obligation, full-fledged income, or the full-fledged income of the taxpayers in Turkey for more than six months of a year, they have to abide by the relevant legislation, and we put it in our legislation. Do you know what the concept of a controlled foreign institution is? So in these low-tax, paradise places, even if the funds here are not distributed from the structures of the trust, or from the indirectly-directed partnerships there, the revenues that have been obtained here must be declared by full taxpayers. You know, from those countries that need to be in different countries, it's no longer possible for me to pay taxes or avoid it because of this information exchange system. So, now, we say, come, whoever you are, it's also about the risk of describing, advertising, and all the responsibilities of prosecution and investigation as the Treasury Department, which is whether it's black or white, or risk, because you may not get taxes here, because you may not get taxes, but the money that goes through you, if it's risky for its origins, it causes big problems, it takes certain arrangements for it, and in this article, the Ministry of Finance is taking over. Now, another feature is, the money comes in here, the company goes out, knocks on the door of the bank, he makes a loan agreement based on the size of the balance sheet, and then we say, "This money can go away." So, what's the risk? Or he's in the tenders within the Public Contraction Act, what's the risk? So, I would like to stress in particular that the risks of these arrangements should be seen clearly as well as in making certain arrangements. Now, let's get to justice. Is justice acting in accordance with justice, justice, and law? When you say tax justice, as defined in Article 73 of the Constitution, it is to pay taxes on its tax, its income, its income, and the state to distribute the tax on its part fairly, and to co-ordinate it with regulations on tax legislation that will also carry the tax burden. Now, we're destroying tax legislation in the country, destroying tax ethics, destroying tax change, destroying tax psychology, making tax law unsustainable. It's not fair to the people in this country who are producing, paying taxes, and exposing their tax-paying awareness with civic awareness, and I don't think it's right to say the word to those people, although...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0190par0091	Tell me, sister, tell me.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0189par0092	We're making fools of those people. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, we're a society that manages to be together in all kinds of challenges, in all kinds of troubles -- here we are on July 15th -- in any attack against our society, our democracy, our nation. We as citizens do not interfere in fulfilling our responsibilities, but we, as this Parliament, must also demonstrate the determination of the way they deserve as citizens, without discrimination against those who carry out their civic duty. We will be followers of this, we will be followers of the laws adopted; beyond that, we will be closely engaged in the implementation and implementation of tax, reform, law and related developments. Because, in today's conditions, at the last meeting of this country, the IMF drew a picture of Turkey, the chief economist of the OECD (OECD), a Turk, has made very important remarks for Turkey that I cannot raise headlines for its economy. I don't know him. There's no way to break up with him. Turkey, today, if it has a strong economy within this G20, if it wants to continue its continuity, it will not give up on democratisation, it will not give up on the state of law, it will not give up on equality and freedom, and it will continue to be a strong country by increasing confidence. I salute the House.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0191par0097	Thank you, Mr. Tamayligil. Second speaker on behalf of the department Mehmet Ali Cevheri, Şanlıurfa MP. Here you go, Mr. Cevheri.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0192par0101	Mr. President, before I speak, I would like to express the dark night of July 15th, inspired by a statement from our national poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy. What did our national poet say? May God never make this nation write an Istrillal March again. Yes, God forbid this nation ever have another hand like this again. Of course, on that day we were in Şanlıurfa. When we look at the structure of Şanlıurfa, the Kurdish, the Turk, the Arab, everyone lives together, and on that day everyone was in the square. There was a tremendous force formed, a democratic reflex, a national consciousness formed that day, and -- we understood -- we saw better why those who wanted to divide us, why they didn't want to bring us together, because if this power came together, there would be tremendous synergy, and there would be a serious force in Turkey. Yes, Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on the second chapter of the Law Proposal on Reconstruction of some of the Acquisitions of 409 rows. I salute the esteemed members of the Veteran Assembly. Mr. President, good lawmakers, with this law in effect, trade and artistry, the economic activities of our businessmen will also increase for several reasons, including tax, SGO premiums, and debt to municipalities, as well as for a large number of other issues. However, it will contribute to social peace because it will allow the debtors to pay their debts. There was a serious economic recession in our area, especially for reasons that were not available, and we needed to bring a serious relief for the people of that region, which was already a Shamil in Turkey. I think that such a study of electricity and natural gas and other private companies that have previously been privatized here in public would have a good effect on the region and on regional employees; the collection of the company increases, and the local people can pay their debts comfortably. By the way, I thank you very much, especially for our local farmer, who was seriously victimized by the drought, and for our farmers in Turkey, and for our forest workers, there is also work. So I think this work will be very good for our farmers, and I want to give our glorious citizens the good news they expect from here. Hopefully, the good news they're waiting for will come into effect with this work. If we take a look at the regulations that are being made with the law, this law has been prepared to help our country to be the center of attraction for international investments, to increase investment and employment in our country, to improve the investment climate, to ensure the sustainable continuity of economic development, to allow the entrepreneurs to focus healthierly on business and investment decisions, and to basically restore the debt of our citizens to our state. In this scope, the proposal will allow the private sector to reduce debt burdens to the public, pay their debts in installments, end financial conflicts between the taxpayers and the state through peace, resolve the issues of tax review without going to trial, increase the predictability of taxation and the possible risks about past taxation times will be eliminated, business records will be reduced to operational status, and the transition to a registered economy will be encouraged. As part of Law 6552, the demands will be made, given a new right to the taxpayers who cannot pay their debts under the conditions prescribed by the law, and will be re-approved for public purchases, allowing some assets to be restored to the economy. The funds are covered by the Finance Ministry, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the Social Security Agency and the collection agencies of municipalities. Yes, this proposal includes tax fines, tariffs, and tariffs under Tax Code 213, and tariffs, customs taxes, laws on social security benefits, violations of the laws of the State of Finance, Ministry of Customs and SGK, which are part of Law 6552. Compromises in the protection of immovable cultural assets, which have been calculated over property tax, and related delay increases are being made. All the originals in the fixed public debt will be paid 50% of non-responsive sentences, 30 per cent of the fines on the customs value, 50 per cent of the administrative fine imposed by the SGK. There's no time. I salute the High Council from here.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0193par0111	Thank you, Mr. Cevheri. The talks on the department for groups and individuals are over. Now we're going to do a question-answer procedure on the department for 15 minutes. Initiating question-answer sequence. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0194par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture and Animalism, he's not here, but the important question is: we see climate change damage to agricultural products in various ways in our naval provinces and in many provinces. In particular, our Denizli province has lost about 50 per cent of grape produce due to extreme heat in the district of Buldan, loss of around 30 per cent of grape produce in our south district, loss of about 40 per cent of grape products due to drought in the vineyards in Çal district. We want to quickly assess the losses of agricultural and county managers, to compensate for the losses of our grape producers, at least to postpone the bank loans by a year without interest, and if so, the tax and bonus debts will be postponed in the same way. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0195par0119	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0196par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. As for the 2010 KPSS, tens of thousands of people are troubled by the uncertainty of their future. The Prime Minister announced yesterday that 86,000 people could be laid off for the possible result of canceling the KPSS (KPSS) talent and culture session in 2010. These explanations do not eliminate uncertainty about the process, but deepen it. Now, these questions come to mind. First of all, isn't it fair to say that by firing 86 thousand people altogether, you've won their rights by equating the thousands of civil servants who've been properly appointed in this unfair competition with those who are part of this theft? Second, as many as those who stole the questions in this crime six years ago, when we said the questions had been stolen, three monkeys were played and a very successful and clean test was conducted. Politicians who have claimed responsibility. Do you plan to start a process on these political responsible people? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0197par0123	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0198par0124	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, you can make these laws legally legalizing the legal revenues of the nation's stolen revenues, which are obtained illegally by your government, the money that they've acquired in our country through smuggling, bribery, crime. But morally, morally, 78 million people's plagues will be on you. The small tradesman, the producers, the farmers, the manufacturers, the producers and the producers who want to pay their taxes, and our fellow citizens who have a hard time paying their taxes, are on the side of every law required to pay their taxes by law, including the taxes of forest and fishermen.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0197par0126	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0199par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. As known as the Osman Vezi Bridge has been opened recently, may it be good for our nation. The media reported that from July 11th to July 26th, the average car crossing was 5,000 vehicles per day. The guarantee, however, is said to be in the form of 40,000 vehicles per day. If we look at it like this, the treasure actually comes down to $20 million in two weeks, eventually by the treasure that's going to be claimed. So, according to this account, if the same trend continues, $10 million a week, $520 million a year in damage. Considering the cost of the bridge is $1.1 billion, we're actually at a point where we've covered the total cost of the bridge in two years. So, what's your projection of the next period as the Ministry of Finance? I mean, how much of this treasure is likely to take over from here? Can you give us some information on that, give us an assessment? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0200par0130	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0201par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. It's nut season. As of this week, I offer my love, respect, and greetings to our fruit makers who have entered the garden, and I wish them a rich, prosperous season, but I don't think my wish will ever come true. Because, first of all, it's 150 thousand tons lower than last year, according to recollateral estimates. For example, last season in Giresun, the Recolte, estimated at 107 thousand tons, is 44,000 tons this season. Maybe with the drought and the spill, this recluse could go a lot lower. This will create a victimization in our region, which will put less money into the manufacturer's pockets and markets. Secondly, despite all our warnings, the nuts are also unfortunately unclaimed this season. The government, on purpose, allows Turkey to take over the entire sector of the industry, unfortunately, to allow its Italian firm to create a price and continue to serve its interests. The buyer doesn't interfere with an institution, he doesn't set a price, he's afraid, he's afraid. Recolte deficiency may lead to the price of nuts, hopefully for 20 liras, but the fate of nuts and producers will be determined by permanent policies. The Republican People's Party is fighting for it. And finally, I'm guessing the nut report we've prepared will provide that.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0202par0135	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0203par0136	Mr. President, it was announced that the tradesmen would be given a loan with the possibility of a 100 per cent interest reduction of up to 30,000 liras. The terms for the loan have been vouched for, the mortgage, the non-responsibility. Despite all the restrictions, the tradesmen applied in accordance with the circumstances. Our shopkeepers have spent 300-400 lira a file. The initial statement said there would be a refund in five years, and then the loan was reduced to 18 months. Traders and artists have made payments through loans and bail co-ops. The application reportedly sent limited plasma to co-operatives to stop credit limits and will not be transferred to any relevant sources after that. How many tradesmen have applied for this interest-free loan from over 2 million active tradesmen and artists? How many tradesmen did he take advantage of? How much did our tradesmen get paid in total? Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0204par0139	Mr. Grandson...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0205par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. A number of decisions have been made under the State of Emergency. One of them is that government officials' annual permits have been cancelled. Without the driver's license and merit of the AKP's power, these gang members, who are placed within the state for political reasons, must, of course, be cleaned up, whatever it takes. However, millions of government officials, who have no ties to this gang, are also suffering serious losses, whose job is just to do the work of the state and the work of the state. Given that we have 2.5 million civil servants, I'd like to draw the attention of government members who are closely involved with their families and about 10 million people. In the summer, in particular, our government officials, who farm families, both satisfy longing in their regions and are also economically engaged in activities. Currently, there have been serious problems in places with agricultural activities during the summer, and the harvest of agricultural products has been severely victimised.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0204par0143	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0206par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Agriculture faces all kinds of risks and uncertainty. For this reason, agriculture is funded by a specific budget in all the countries of the world. Such supports are not given to them by way of grace. The support given to farmers is given only to produce. Do you plan to take a step back in this, because of a decision that you've made, you've been complicating electricity debt payments from farmers who owe electricity? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0207par0147	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the Minister for answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0208par0150	Mr. President, thank you. They asked you a question about the loss of climate change in the province of Arslan Denizli, but if you don't mind, let's take the temperature of the issue and get back to you with some information from the Department of Agriculture, shall we?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0209par0152	Sure.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0208par0153	Secondly, Mr. Master, regarding Osman Gazi Bridge... you know, one of Turkey's major mega projects has been launched. And this is a project with a do-and-do model. There are certain numbers related to the number of everyday vehicles. In a certain amount of time, in this coming period, I believe the targets will also increase. Right now, in the last few days, in a very short period of time, it's probably too early to look at the intensity of traffic and make an assessment of long-term developments in the mid-term. You have to think of it as a very conjunctural, short-term situation. We'll follow this together. The mega-projects that we're going to bring to Turkey in this way will hopefully contribute substantially to Turkey's development. On the other hand, it's important what Mr. Ustah points to. I mean, there's bound to be a special follow-up on the obligations that can come to the treasure from projects like this. And as the Ministry of Finance, I think that if we need to set aside a fund in the year budget for the public burden that could come from here, we'll be able to give our Parliament the information we need. On the other hand, Mr. Bektasoglu expressed particularly low recluse regarding the season of nuts. This year, really, according to expectations, compared to the previous years, may be considered a year without high rekoltenin, but if I remember correctly, in 2009 or 2010, we've brought support to protect our farmers against fluctuations that may depend on seasonal conditions in the production of nuts. I remember starting at $150 per dekar, now $170. So, here, of course, in addition to what our farmer has earned on the market, we, as a government, also support themselves for 170 lira per bill. In 2016, we paid 833 million liras to support our farmer in June. So we've seen for the past five years how accurate the practice we've started in 2010, when our nut farmer, our nut producers, are at least affected by these conjunctural or seasonal effects, or at the point that they're getting minimum income from these fluctuations.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0210par0157	Minister, we want the product to be valuable rather than supportive.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0208par0158	But as a government, right, together, in fact... nuts are a strategic product. Turkey is an important actor in the world in the production of nuts. We're not just expressing the production of this, but the value of adding it to its production is staying in Turkey, at the point where export revenues are increasing. As a government here, as I know the previous years -- the main goal is to pay for dekar-based support in 2010 -- through public purchases -- so it wasn't a sustainable policy in the long term. Since we've known about this since 2006, in 2010...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0210par0159	The World Bank started the support.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0208par0160	No, no, that's a project that started with the World Bank in 2002, but that's not direct income support. In 2010, we gave up policy based on the purchase of the Earth crop office, instead of bringing in a dekar-based support system in the areas where nuts are produced. So the first year I remembered it was 150 TL, and now it's up to 170 TL this year. Here, our farmer, regardless of the kilogram of the product he produces, makes $170 lira per square foot, and in this case, we have paid 833 million in government support to our nut farmer this year.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0210par0161	Sir, activate the FISKOBIRLIK.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0211par0162	It's the truth.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0208par0163	Let's all talk together -- your views, your suggestions -- sit down together, talk. Our ministry is working on it, so let's do what's right with your views and suggestions. But in fact, my personal opinion, which interferes with the market, instead of these -- in the free market, the state should set up a system that allows the farmer to get a certain income in any case. As a matter of fact, since 2010 -- I remember what we went through earlier with the nuts -- these problems have largely disappeared.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0210par0164	Sir, you left the market so empty, you left it to 20 foreign companies, the foreign firm is turning it around.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0208par0165	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to take some time off from the other questions, but our representatives have asked separate questions. Mr. Gürer, in regard to our citizens who will be given this interest-free loan support, you know in terms of the developments you've expressed in the November 1st election statement, we said that we would give interest-free loan support to our tradesman, while a intensive application has arrived, where the necessary arrangements have been made under budget possibilities. When it was seen that high file costs were taken in the first place, we also brought down the file costs by making the necessary arrangements as a government. We've made an arrangement for the times. But right now, the general information that I have continues to apply here, there's no problem. Mr. Torun mentioned the effect of permits and investigations on officers in the context of the fight against this terrorist organization, especially during a period of agricultural production during the summer. It's important. We know, especially when our officers arrive in the summer months, that everyone has a vineyard, has a garden, has a field, goes to his parents, farms in his garden, in his own vineyard. Now, I know, Giresunian officers, now that everyone's gone to Giresun, there's a nut harvest there. In this frame, I mean, let's face it, it's really...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0212par0168	Not allowed, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0213par0169	They couldn't leave.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0208par0170	My esteemed representatives, we don't have this: we're going through an extraordinary period. Look, we're at a place on the night of July 15th with witnesses to what happened to this country.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0214par0172	Mr. Secretary, I'm going to turn on your microphone, complete your statement.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0208par0173	Thank you. The Veteran Assembly took such a stand that night that it really confirmed how powerful democracy was in this country. It's true there's a problem with the permits of our officers, but there's a real investigation going on here. As a government, it is our duty to end these investigations as soon as possible and then to make arrangements and arrangements for the permits of our officers. Mr. Gaytancioglu has expressed that electricity debt should be allowed from farmers' support payments, but this is the correct method. So the person has to get support from the government, but the same person has a debt to pay, so by cutting the funding, we're collecting a debt that normally has to be paid voluntarily. Whatever we say, look, it's also important that that electricity debt is paid in a sustainable way. Let's assume that these electric debts have not been paid off, that our farmer will suffer the most, because if you can't build a system that can supply regular electricity, if you can't maintain it, after a while, our farmer will be harmed again. The system is the right system, we have to make the system sustainable here. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0215par0179	Mr. Secretary, we've asked for information on the Syrians.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0216par0180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. Before that, however, I have a statement from the Council of Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission, which has been issued under Article 34 of the Civil Code. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 28/12/2015, the TBM President of Forest Villages No. 2/571) was originally referred to the Plan and Budget Commission as a secondary commission on 28/1/2016, and to our Commission as the main commission (2/571), the Law Proposal on the sale of Agriculture Lands of the Treasury, provided by İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi and his friends, "19/4/2012, and if he considers the proposal to be made to support the Developments of Forest Villages in the name of Treasury, or the proposal for other proposals to be made to be made in accordance with the sale of the Bank of Agriculture Lands of Agriculture." As the proposal is relevant to the area of the Plan and Budget Commission, I move that the proposal be transferred to the Plan and Budget Commission. Yours truly. Members of parliament, since the request of the Commission for Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs, which has been read has been approved by the Plan and Budget Commission, this request has been carried out according to the Fourth Amendment of Article 34 of the Interior Charter. Congressmans, there are three motions on the 7th article, two of which are the same property, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the 409 rows that have been held in the 7th article of the Article (1) of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the currently held 409 rows, "all kinds of ships, yachts and other water vehicles that have been owned as the date of which this law has entered into effect," all sorts of other forms of evidence, "to change the means of the supply market," and the following sentence at the end of the (3)th joke to be added; (6) to the end of the following sentence; (6) to be removed from the article of matter text, and to be used according to other jokes; available (7) to change the current (7) to the basis of the article, "other being kept in a basis for another reason," or to change the basis of the value of the article of the article, and to the article of the article, or to the article. Fuat Koktaş Ramadan Can Nazim Mavis Halis Dalklıç Ilyas Şeker Mehmet Mus Osman Mesten These provisions will be used if the amount of capital in which this clause is registered in the legal books, as long as the money, gold, foreign currency, security and other capital markets are covered by the fact that they have been brought to Turkey before its implementation. Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions, and I'm going to make a separate commitment to those who have the motions. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 7 of Law Proposal 409 be removed from the proposal text. Ahmet Yıldırım İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Merkel Danış Beştaş Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Osman Baydemir The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Master Emin Haluk Ayhan Erkan Akçay Mehmet Erdoğan İsmail Faruk Aksu I'll get the Commission and the government's opinion on the same motions. Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0217par0220	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0216par0221	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0218par0222	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0216par0223	I'll make a promise to the MPs who want to talk about the motions. Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0219par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised to present the views of the National Movement Party Group on the 7th article of the proposed proposal. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. The real reason for our motion is that... we want it out of the text, not entirely, not to be, not to be. We are fully for the adoption of assets abroad into the national economy, but we do not approve of the arrangement with this material, which allows for the introduction of non-criminal, even non-Turkish, and even anti-human activities. This came as a design before, the government gave it up, somehow they agreed, but what do I want to do with it with a different perspective? I want to look. If the economy were in the normal flow, there's no need for the items in this proposal to come here. So the economy's not normal, there's an anomaly, people can't handle it, but the thing you brought in is whether it's the money of the thief, the cheeky, the corrupt, how do you know, how do you know? I asked Mr. Secretary... to keep Haydar from looking over there. Now, there was our Minister of Economy. Did a servant of God ever come to you and say, "I have money abroad, I will bring it?" Did he not say, "My friend, let's find out?"
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0220par0231	He said he did.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0219par0232	In cases like this, these people come to us, and the government brings this, as a bill, as an offer, but you too, they say, "Make way." I swear, I didn't get one. So there's an anomaly in this. We have to say this. Besides, there's something here that I'd like to express in particular. Look, I started following the economy from Mr. President's chief advisors. I don't think you guys have that much influence. Now, the chief advisor says that after 2008, his supporters defended postmodern handpicking. In particular, after 2012, Neoliberal growth fell by heart. They entrusted the treasure, the Central Bank, our institutions, such as the SEC and the BDDK, to this parallel gang. There's Daddy. Who else? There's Mehmet Lightning. Economy ministers, you were a bureaucrat there. Now we're cleaning them up. But that's not enough, we'll clear their ideology from economic management. Who says who, who, who runs the economy? Mr. Babacan, Mr. Lightning, Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz. If postmodern mandaism is the work of the community, if it's the work of the terrorist organization, what are the ministers doing there, if you love your God? A prosecutor might even start an investigation tomorrow, so we'll have to consider it. Those are very dangerous statements. If it was the work of Postmodern Mandaism, it came to Parliament before the coup attempt, then you realized, you took it out, you knew there would be no coup. Now you're bringing the same thing after a coup attempt. Look, Mr. President, the Prime Minister has reservations. If money comes from here, they'll play with you in the economy, you don't know what's coming. They'll attempt a coup, you'll have to intercept it. Come take this off, it's troubling. You've brought it before, you couldn't have brought it three times already, it's really uncomfortable. Mr. Babacan says: "There is no impact on economies over $10,000. You've been looking at them since 2008, we don't have over $10,000. In fact, if you count Syrian friends, it's almost under $8,000. You're always open to it. Then what the president's chief advisor said is consistent with what Mr. Babacan said. Minister, let's get this out of here. I say we appeal to your conscience and get this clause out of here. I pay my respects to the High Council, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0221par0237	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, İstanbul MP on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0222par0241	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have received a pledge on the 7th article, which is held under the title "Absorption of some assets into the national economy" but is the Turkish currency money laundering arrangement. In the face of major objections, bringing back an amendment to Parliament on a bag of incentives to investment is, in fact, a deception, as it were, the least likely, to bring it back to Parliament. You may be used to saying, "We are deceived. " Or you may be able to avoid any responsibility, but we have no such tradition and no such irresponsibleness toward the public. Money, gold, foreign currency, all kinds of ships, yachts, and other water vehicles are required to be brought to Turkey and to be put into Turkey's accounts without tax examination, without tax returns. So, in other words, the tax-deprived capital holders are told: "We will not ask for the money you steal, we will not charge for the irregular ships you receive, we will use them as you wish, and we will not receive taxes and we will launder you." With this arrangement, the tax evasion of Panaman documents will be officially covered in Turkey. For example, it would be possible for Reza Zarrab, who is under arrest for money laundering and bribery in the United States, to bring his black money to Turkey without questioning. I'd like to point out something, especially in this council of patriots that have been talking about it all the time lately: everyone's a patriot, isn't it? Especially the government and the power and the closer to it, even more patriotic. Well, instead of investing in this country, why don't you just pardon those people who have smuggled money abroad to protect their own interests and are not patriotic at all, and condemn the people who work hard to live on taxes cut out of resources, or on the world's highest consumer taxes. Is this how you like your country? Do you love your country by loving the rich and ignoring the poor? It's not clear whether these hot coins you're asking for will come to the country, but one thing is clear, in this country, tax injustice and injustice of all kinds will have become more and more legal. At the same time, for people who pay their taxes regularly, the public will be completely overwhelmed by the sense of justice and tax morality of these citizens because they have been standing for years, as if they had already served a citizen, to have him exist, to work for him, to have him work for him, to exist for him. Therefore, if you are a patriot, first love your people who work with moral and hard work, and trust them. Don't give bonuses to those who don't know any morality other than their own interests, so that you can't stand up and say, "We've been tricked," because it's not going to end. Therefore, this clause must definitely be removed from this bag and never brought before this Parliament again. Instead of making this country a better, healthier country, black money laundering will continue to make it one of the worst countries in the world and one of the countries in which it has failed to achieve democracy. The value we have to give is labor, not theft, not corruption. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0223par0249	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the 409 rows that have been held in the 7th article of the Article (1) of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the currently held 409 rows, "all kinds of ships, yachts and other water vehicles that have been owned as the date of which this law has entered into effect," all sorts of other forms of evidence, "to change the means of the supply market," and the following sentence at the end of the (3)th joke to be added; (6) to the end of the following sentence; (6) to be removed from the article of matter text, and to be used according to other jokes; available (7) to change the current (7) to the basis of the article, "other being kept in a basis for another reason," or to change the basis of the value of the article of the article, and to the article of the article, or to the article. Mehmet Mush (Istanbul) and his friends This clause will be used if the amount of capital grants recorded in the legal books is covered by the fact that money, gold, foreign currency, currency, securities and other capital markets are covered by the fact that they have been brought to Turkey before its implementation. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0224par0257	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0223par0258	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0225par0259	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0226par0260	Motive...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0223par0261	I'm reading the reason: The proposal is to remove ship, yacht and other water vehicles from abroad and other persons from abroad from the provision of the material text on the return of assets to its name and account. In addition, the motion aims to ensure that the capital advance in the legal ledger records can be met with assets from abroad. As part of this clause, it has been suggested that those who brought their assets to Turkey and the taxpayers who registered their assets in Turkey's legal books will not be investigated, investigated, and prosecuted because of their actions and because of their actions. This arrangement is based on the principle of the principle of innocence. However, it is clear that the necessary procedures will be carried out in any case when the reasons for other legislations are legally mandatory for those who benefit from the provision of the clause. The motion has been made clear to this issue. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. On the basis of the amendment, I submit the 7th Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 7th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the 409 rows that have been held on June 2016, June 2016, July 2016, July 2016, and July 30/06/2016, we propose and propose that the terms of the declarations be changed until 30/07/2016. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Selin Sayek Bühlun Tamayligil Now I'm going to read and process the antimatter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Law Proposal 409 be removed from the proposal text. Ahmet Yıldırım İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Merkel Danış Beştaş Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Osman Baydemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0227par0286	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0223par0287	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0228par0288	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0223par0289	İbrahim Ayhan, MP of Şanlıurfa who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0229par0292	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. I especially wish to share with you that I have cursed and condemned the July 15 coup attempt. Of course, it's not just a coup attempt, it's a classic, modern, postmodern and civilian blow that I condemn and curse. We're experiencing some very serious upsets in our country, as you've been through, and you've been following closely. And when you're going through these upsets, especially if it's an evil on July 15th, a disease, the antidote to this disease is absolutely nothing but democracy. As we have seen in recent days, the practicals, especially to eliminate this coup attempt and to counter this coup attempt, are unfortunately not in line with the democratic system, understanding and attitude that we refer to as an antidote to the coups. In particular, many public workers are suspended, suspended, and expelled illegally. As of today's figures, over 60,000 people are currently suspended or suspended. The Ministry of National Education is at the top of the business force in the sectors where these transactions are implemented. Of course, we're not opposed to being processed within the framework of democracy, against people involved in the coup, who have an organic relationship with the coup. But by turning the coup into an opportunity, especially people who have nothing to do with parallel structure, the congregation and this coup attempt are also exposed to this operation, this liquidation practice. Of those working at KESK, executives and members of the Unions, 280 have now been suspended or expelled. Just today, seven of the colleagues who worked in the food, agriculture, and animalism business in Urbana were dismissed from the office of the trade union manager of TERIM ORKAM-SEN. The motive was to become a member of the parallel structure, the Fethullahist structure. Other than that, there has been a major attack and dismissal at universities, especially on academics signing for peace. In addition, yesterday, the head of the Department of Pain-SEN has been exiled to Bayburt. The director of the Education-SEN branch has been exiled to Central Anatolia because of their Facebook sharing. There are so many cases like this that the governor of Antalya said the other day, in his statement that he had made over these detentions, we did wrong, we did wrong, we did this, we did this. He tried to justify these kind of liquidation operations and they were all wrong. Look, this coup attempt and this impact mentality can't be destroyed by spreading the reporting among people, by spreading the jurisprudence among people. On the 31st of July, Bitlis Governorate sent letters to all public institutions and organizations, asking the institutions for names of anyone they thought were involved in the press releases and demonstrations they had found at their workplace.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0230par0298	What was the motion, the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0229par0299	Here, it is written by the Governor of Bitlis. It was sent to all public institutions, institutions and NGOs on July 31st. So even this is a practice that spreads fear, anxiety, scepticism in society, and creates a conflicting psychology and tension in society. So, while you're fighting a coup threat, you're trying to establish a new sense of impact, a new lack of law. It's a very wrong thing to do, it must be abandoned at once. A coup d'état, a coup d'état can't be eliminated by liquidation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There is only one solution to the coup; democracy is to remove the obstacle to rights and freedoms. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0231par0304	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the 409 rows that have been held on June 2016, June 2016, July 2016, July 2016, and July 30/06/2016, we propose and propose that the terms of the declarations be changed until 30/07/2016. With all due respect. Moses Pine (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0232par0312	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0231par0313	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0233par0314	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0231par0315	It's Musa Çam who wants to talk about the motion, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0234par0318	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I have taken a pledge on Article 8 of Law Proposal No. 409 for Reconstruction of Some Acquisitions. I salute you all. The AKP is the nine-parter of the drafts and proposals it has brought during the 14-year period of government. In 2003, 4811 was the Law on Tax Peace; in 2006, 5458 was the Reconstruction of Social Security Primitives; in 27/02/2008, 5736 was the Law on Compromises of Some Public Acquisitions; in 2008, 5811 was the Law on Compromising Some Assets into the National Economy; in 2009, 5917 was also a provision of some provisions in the budget laws; in 2011, 6111 was the Reconstruction of Some Restructions; in 2013, Mr Demiröz; in 6486, Social Insurance Law on General Health Insurance, and in 2014, some of the Law on Computational Laws were also made with some changes in the United States, and in 2014, with some changes made in some of the Laws, with some of the United States, and in 2014. Why, though, is it necessary to restructure taxes and payables nine times in a country? Why can't these people pay their taxes, why can't they pay their taxes, because the constant power is forced to restructure nine times during its 14 years of government? So the economy's not good in the country, business isn't good, the AKP can't run the country well, that's Turkish, guys. Since you can't manage it well, you're constantly trying to provide forgiveness, constant restructuring, economic comfort and relief in Turkey, which is not the right way and it's not the right way, my friends. The reasons that you don't manage very well have clearly been around for a long time, but you're only thinking of making fresh money to relax the market. None of this is true, so it is a great injustice to the people who paid their taxes in time. You also rejected the motion on him because the taxpayers, the businessman, the industrialist, the business manager should be rewarded, but not them, but rather our Finance Minister, how do I raise money from the market? It's about him, which means you won't be able to bring any comfort to the economy with all this money being collected. In 2014, when we were Undersecretary of the Minister of Finance, we did the Plan and Budget Commission, but they're not finished, you need a new law proposal before the citizen's payment is over, and you bring it to Parliament. So these are not solutions. Friends, we're against the coup, we're against any military or civil coup, and we're going to fight against it. On the evening of July 15th, there was an incident in Bescar with the Izmir Bag: a military send-off. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Lawmaker, I'm telling you, there's a military send-off. You know, in villages, in neighborhoods, the send-off turns into a festival where young, women, girls, they sing, they sing, they cry, they eat, they drink, they play, they jump, they send off the military with a big festival. On the evening of the 15th of July, the soldier's sendoff continues until one-halfth of July. At 1:30 a.m., young people come into existence, and suddenly they're reading a flood. They're holding the imam: "My teacher, what's the deal?" "It's been roughed up, it's been instructed, we've given floods." We've given so many martyrs so far, why haven't any floods been given? Let us also be ready, and we shall read the Instular March. They say. You don't read, you don't argue with the imam... no hitting, no breaking, no tattoos, nothing. The gendarmes are coming in, taking 20 people into custody, getting their statements taken and released by morning, but the pressure of the neighborhood is so high that -- we know that the pressure of this neighborhood is on AKP -- there are so much pressure that 20 people are being taken into custody once more the next day and their statements are being taken by morning, friends, 8 of these 20 people are being arrested. One of them's a mother. He's going to pick up his 17-year-old son, who says: "Come on, my son, it's getting late, let's go home. " On the way home, they're taking the mother and her 17-year-old son with them. See, they just told me that Sercan Çıran, Mert Yüçük, Yilmaz Bala, Salim Akincı, Serdar Kar, Doğan Arsu, Pakize Çıran, Sovereign İmre and one of our brothers Gamze Şahin are now under arrest for attempted coup because of attempted coup attempt against TCK 312. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I've been calling the Attorney General for four days. I'll go to İzmir tomorrow, I'm in İzmir on Friday. I've been calling the Minister of Justice for four days, friends, and I'm going to see him, and I haven't been able to reach Mr. Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ for four days to visit them in prison. Mr. Speaker, we'd like to announce to you from here, Mr. Group Vice President, that the ministers are not answering our calls. Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0235par0328	Camera footage, camera!
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0236par0329	Thank you, Mr. Pine. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 9th article, two of which are the same property, and I read the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "until the end of this period" in the sentence (1) of Article 9 of the current Law Proposal 409 shall be changed into "until the first payment period." Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Master Deniz Depboylu Erkan Akçay Mehmet Erdoğan İsmail Faruk Aksu Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions, and I'm going to make a separate commitment to those who have the motions. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 9 of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the currently held 409 rows. With all due respect. Light Horse Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamaylıgil Moses Pine Tulips Selin Sayek Böke The signatures of the other motion are: Ahmet Yıldırım İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Merkel Danış Beştaş Osman Baydemir Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Does the commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0237par0356	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0236par0357	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0238par0358	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0236par0359	I'll make a promise to the lawmakers who have requested the same motions. Hüda Kaya, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0239par0363	Mr. President, Congressman, in five minutes, I'm going to try to get my words straight. But our agenda, you know the agenda of Turkey, is that we can't step into much more useful business with our country than we can deal with the impacts again, the casualties of the coup, the consequences of the coup. Since February 28th and September 12th, each of us has been a generation that has suffered from coupgers, and have experienced its victims, its costs in the most extreme way. Like our thousands of women and our people on February 28th, I was tried and tried for years in the DGMs with my three daughters and one son, and we were sentenced to death, and we all witnessed in those processes: how the silver ring officers, the police, the judges, the prosecutors, kept us in prison for years and years, and in the later processes, how thousands of people in this particular community have been filling thousands of people with the names of terrorists. Today, I'd like to give you a few quick quotes from a letter from Midyat Prison, a letter from Mele Abdelaziz Bilgin. 63 years old. A 63-year-old Midyat commissioner of the Democratic Islamic Congress, a person with health problems, who can barely walk with a cane and can't get out of his seat without help is currently in Midyat Prison. Well, why are they in prison, dear friends? At the end of 2015, a relative was struck and killed by a business accident. He goes to his condolence, and he's asked to chat with the town's mufti, the governor, and in a crowded environment, and he's there to talk and preach. In his speech, he talks about the rank of martyrdom, and one of the ranks of martyrdom -- in the accident, in the fire, in the wreck -- is a martyr's class, and hopefully this dead relative can be counted as a martyr, and they pray, and at the end of these talks, they celebrate this Mele Abdulaziz Bilgin. But the next day, the police raid your house. What's he saying? In his speech, he says: "Keep your children away from the congregations. Many of today's congregations have bad intentions, especially the Laughing Congregation. At the end of this talk, the mufti, the governor, and some dignitaries congratulate him and congratulate him. The next day, a police raid and interrogation process begins, and days later, when the judge and the prosecutor called him back in for questioning, you didn't say that in your speech. There's a recording, but if you don't pray in Kurdish again, if you promise, we'll release you and we won't continue to question you. But he is imprisoned for not saying yes. Only himself cries out, and no one in faith can be a terrorist because he prays in his own language? He says, "He is imprisoned for the propaganda of terrorism." People have been in prison for months. I ask you, dear friends, in the power of this country and in the presidency of all our rulers, may God forgive us, our people forgive us, we have been misled. But how will these people be compensated for the price they pay when they are misled? We need to think about this. People are all suspended because they passed through a student's home only twenty or thirty years ago. We need to protect the victims of our people, and we need to work together to correct the consequences of these environments, certain coupgers, today's coupkers, as well as in February 28th.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0240par0368	Thank you, Mr. Rock. About the other proposal of the same nature, Aytüp Atı Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0241par0372	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article 9 of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of Some Acquisitions. I salute the lawmakers who advocate the rights of workers, who advocate that the labor of the worker should be given without drying up, and who do not deceive the workers. Dear friends, you're bringing pardons to contractors who don't pay the insurance premiums, which are calculated on the nineth article of the bill. So what are you doing? So let's say that a contractor was supposed to do construction with 15 workers, but he put in the bonus of 10 workers. There are two possibilities here. One: the contractor could have actually employed 15 people, but he could have put in 10 people's bonuses, so he could have run five workers illegally. Two: Or this contractor could have actually put the work of 15 people into 10 people and put it on 10 people. In either case, the worker's rights have been revoked, and the employee's sweat is not respected. And you share the rights by forgiving these contractors, and what's even worse, you say out loud, you dishonest contractor, continue to eat the worker's rights. I'll forgive you anyway. You turn around, and you say to the honest contractor, "O honest contractor! Be wise, and thou shalt receive a servant, and I will forgive thee as I forgive others. We forgive not such a thing, as Allah forgiveth not. So we recommend that this clause be removed from the bidding text. When you forgive the contractor's punishment, you have no interest in what will happen to the employee who will be working as a fugitive on the other side because you are also preventing the struggle with this material from being unregistered. In fact, you're saying that we encourage the work of non-registered workers as the AKP government. You're saying that. And the contractor says, "Sister, I also employ illegal workers, and I hire a lot of very few workers, and I pay the fine, I pay the fine, I do the government, I do the naniks." He says, you applaud that. You're also causing unfair competition between the honest contractor who hires registered workers and pays premiums and hires more and employs registered workers, and the dishonest contractor who hires unregistered workers. Dear friends, for God's sake, don't hit the workers anymore. You hit him with minimum wage. We said £1,500, you said £1,300. Thanks. He's okay with that, too, citizen. But he's back, and the employer signs for $1,300 and gives $900 to the employee, and you don't make a sound. If the employer deposits the money into the bank, it has to say to the worker: "Here is 1,300 lira, but you will bring it back to me." He says, "You are watching this." For God's sake, how many of you are a working boy? I'm sure you have a lot of working children in you. Your father won't give you his due if you don't mind. That's not enough, you're eating the rights of these workers with the people you brought from Syria. That's not appropriate either. And that wasn't enough with the subcontractor system, and that wasn't enough, you're continuing to eat the workers' rights by employing non-union workers. Look, dear friends, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Commission, you're making a grave mistake in Article 9 (3). What you're saying is that the contractor who's in debt doesn't have a very difficult situation, whatever that means, that's the reason I know, there's no reason why he can't pay two installments without being in a very difficult situation. So you're not going to go back and take that money from the contractor again, and that's what that means. I salute your committee.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0242par0379	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "until the end of this period" in the first sentence of Article (1) of Article 9 of the current Law Proposal 409 shall be changed into "until the first payment period." Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0243par0386	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0242par0387	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0244par0388	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0242par0389	Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0245par0392	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak on behalf of my National Movement Party Group on our motion on Article 9. I salute the Holy Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. According to research, the number of non-registers in Turkey reached 44% more in 2015 than the average rate of 31 European countries in 2003. According to the same study, Turkey had an offshore rate of 26.5 per cent in 2013, while in 2015 it increased to 27.8 per cent. At this rate, Turkey was ranked third among 31 European countries after Bulgaria and Romania. According to the latest data, 28.72 per cent of Turkey's economy is listed as the highest in 34 countries in the OECD. I leave it to you and the great Turkish nation to appreciate how successful the work was done in light of this data. Tax and premium pardon practices are the greatest injustice to honest taxpayers who pay taxes on time, destroying the sense of justice in society. Because most of the time, the taxpayers, who pay their taxes on time, are able to restructure under much more appropriate conditions than the taxpayers. This reduces voluntary fitness to tax. Unfortunately, the government and AKP Group rejected our motion to reduce taxes by taxpayers who paid taxes three years in a row on time. Let our group's committee also include our local farmers in this package of pardons. The motion, which we have made by the AKP Group, has not been approved. In particular, the provision for non-tax reviews in the event of a mathematic enhancement is even encouraging to treat the taxpayers unregistered. Tax pardons also bring significant inconveniences for those who have fulfilled the tax obligation in accordance with the law in terms of tax psychology. The main goal of the tax pardon, called a method of reducing the tax breaker, should be to encourage tax obligations through pardons and to expand their tax collection for today, but the frequent application of tax pardons in our country reveals the demand for forgiveness once again after each pardon. Dear lawmakers, due to our extraordinary state of affairs, we welcome the work done and done by the government in many industries to be rescued from the difficult situation of the tradesman. However, we also feel that the measures and the work taken are not enough to solve the problems that tourism is experiencing. The attempted attempt on July 15th, before the attacks with Russia were repaired, resulted in more hits and more injuries by tourism as a result of the treacherous attempt. Employers and businessmen are crying blood, so to speak, because of the canceled cruises and tours in Kuşadasi district of Aydın Province, my constituency district. In Kuşadası, the shops are at 15 p.m. They shut down at 100. This has never been seen in winter months. It's sad that the shopkeepers and the managers can't even pay their rent. For four or five months, the tradesman who has not been able to pay the SGK bonuses has debts due to the waiting checks and bond payments, bank loan debt debts, the deals made with tours. When they should be thinking about it, they're worried about how to feed their family in the winter months. It is not only Kuşadası that there are no tourists on ships and different travel routes, but Selçuklutta Efes, Pamukkale and Karacasu, in Denizli, which unfortunately reduces the arrival of tourists in nearby places such as Aphrodisiasias. There are also more hotels for sale than in the hotel that is open in Kuşadas and Didim. The problem is not only the number of tourists, but the number of tourism sectors that depend on tourism will be affected. In short, the loss of tourism is not only the damage of the tourist, but the loss of all suppliers and countries. In this case, the tradesman's debts must be restructured or postponed, especially in tourist areas. I pay my respects and salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0246par0403	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 9th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 10: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "result" in Article 10 of Law Proposal 409 is replaced by the "responsored" in the (1)th joke of the current 409 rows. Ahmet Yıldırım İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Osman Baydemir Merkel Danış Beştaş Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 409th Law Proposal of the 409th row (b) shall be changed and proposed in the following way as follows by the "30th instalment" of Article (1) (b) of Article 10 of Article 10 (i.e. the 10th article (i.e. the 10th Amendment). Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Master Arzu Erdem Erkan Akçay İsmail Faruk Aksu Mehmet Erdoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0247par0421	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0246par0422	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0248par0423	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0246par0424	Arzu Erdem, İstanbul MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0249par0427	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 10 of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of Some Acquisitions. I salute our Veteran Assembly. Honourable lawmakers are intended to bring pardons for restructuring tax and bonus debts, tax fines, administrative fines, delay hikes, late interest and delay sentences. As it is known, in the tax system of our country, indirect taxes are heavy. The height of indirect taxes negatively affects daily life and increases injustice in taxes. Recently, taxes have been envisioned as a way of closing budget deficits. The government, struggling to collect taxes from its source, increases indirect taxes and punishes our nation by taking taxes from our narrow-income nation, especially civil servants and workers. Also, tax forgiveness laws, which are often passed, and tax pens that have been raised day after day, clearly reveal that there is tax injustice in our country. The proportion of indirect taxes, which are the most staged in tax injustice, increases every year in tax revenues. Indirect taxes, which are around 70 per cent of our country's total tax revenues, are lower than 50 per cent in developed countries. The higher the rate of indirect taxes in taxes, the higher the tax injustice. Dear lawmakers, the informal economy is the state's secret, unregistered and unsupervised activities for these reasons. The informal economy, the informal economy, also called the secret economy, is widely known in our country. The country's turnout rate was 26.5 per cent in 2013, while 27.8 per cent in 2015 was highlighted. Such factors as high tax rates, recession, rising unemployment, social security burdens, the abundance of legal regulations in the registered economy, bans on more than one job, dissatisfaction due to government policies and tax rates have led to many negative situations such as unregistered economy, tax evasion. The existence of a large-scale off-the-book economy, high tax rates, decline in public service, increase in bribery and corruption, could result in an unfavourable business environment for our nation, which is seeking unfair competition and honest trade. The unregistered economy reduces tax revenues. Thus, it will lead to failure in the infrastructure, health, education, and many investments that the government is obliged to provide to our beloved Turkish nation, and will bring with it major problems. In order to prevent all these problems, deterring measures must be taken in the prevention of the informal economy. Given the heavy economic conditions, arrangements must and must serve as a comfort to our nation. There has to be a mistake with the earlier tax pardon laws, which, as the minister stated yesterday, are 25 percent. Here, right here, we need to right the wrong. In that sense, I would like you to accept and support our proposal as the National Movement Party. I mean, the last 18 months, the highest instalment rate, must be arranged as thirty-six months, so it has to be with the mind that really relaxes what kills our nation, what doesn't make our nation laugh. Dear lawmakers, with this arrangement under the name of the new entity peace, the introduction of money, gold, foreign currency, securities and other capital markets from all kinds of ships -- which, as you know, is now removed -- is not enough -- is being introduced. It is intended to ensure that no investigation, investigation, and prosecution of such beings will be brought into our country, and no administrative fines will be imposed, which will turn our country into a black currency paradise, friends, and will open the door to bribery, corruption and trafficking in our country. Since there is no requirement for Turkish citizenship in the article, it is also an opportunity for foreign citizens to launder their black money in our country. We have our support, of course, but you should know that we say no to the illegitimate, such as tax, insurance, and the consolidation of other public debt. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0250par0436	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the 10th article of Law Proposal 409 be replaced in the form of its statement, which is included in the (1)th joke of the current 409 rows. İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0251par0443	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0250par0444	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0252par0445	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0250par0446	To talk about the motion, it's the Meral Danış Beştaş Adana MP who wants to talk to you about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0253par0449	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, as operations against coupters continue at full speed, they said today that many innocent people, coupgers, and non-involved members of the organization, were arrested, and I would like to share a concrete case. A dentist is currently in custody in Hacıbektaş district of Nevşehir, and I've been taking care of him since 12 p.m. last night. His wife called through Adana and a left-wing doctor. They said he was insulted by the president in my meeting with the Commissioner and the relevant. I just got off the phone with his lawyer, he's been deposed in custody, and his lawyer says the investigation from the terrorist organization is under way. I asked why, and what is the evidence based on the bet? They said there are 29 Facebook shares. There are several examples in Facebook sharing, he shared three shares of the ODP, the EMEP, and the left party, and the message he wrote himself is neither AK PARTI nor we want democracy. Due to a posting, he is currently in custody and has extended detention until Friday. This dentist's wife, really, her name is Hüseyin Aksoy, who is still in custody. We'd like to call it in: really, this witch hunt at this time of year, let the cremation of this age and the drought stop. Another issue, many judges, prosecutors, judges, prosecutors expressed in hundreds and thousands, has been arrested, detained, suspended, and at the time in cases against Ergenekon (Ergenekon) are a conspiracy set up by our heroic army. Many statements have been made in different ways and are now announced publicly that the High Command is divided by agreements, negotiations, and the High Command. What about the trial of 10,000 people who were arrested for five years, six years in an air-to-air operation in an atmosphere where we can clearly see law turned into a means of revenge? All the judges, prosecutors who tried them, arrested them, held them in prison are now under arrest and on trial. I know from the cases I've been in myself, all the judges, all the presidents, all the prosecutors in the TK main case have been arrested. The people who did the investigation are under arrest -- again in the TK main case -- Istanbul -- and hundreds of other cases -- but the people they're judging continue to be tried. The mayors, the lawmakers, the politicians, the members of MYK, aren't they a conspiracy? So, at the same time, the same section of the same judge, the prosecutors called some of the investigations and prosecutions "acquities," while the other cases were being carried out, and the Supreme Court is looking for the meaning and the answer to the persistent continuation of this ratification process, and we all know very well that all of these cases are a conspiracy, and none of these cases have been decided to be acquitted by the same mentality. My last question is Hursit Külter. I told you five minutes of Hursit Külter from this bench on June 23rd. Hursit Külter has been in custody since May 27th and has been missing sixty-eight days today. The last time we got any information is when I spoke from this podium. On June 23, Minister of National Defence Mr. Fikri Iş was sitting here, and we asked him, "Where is Hurşit Külter?" We asked him, and he officially told us: "We have appointed an inspector of the Ministry of Interior to the estate. Since then 309 soldiers have been taken into custody and arrested in Şırnak. In Şırnak, almost all senior command is now in prison. The state and the government of Hurşit Külter have not found Şırnak, who has brought so many law enforcement officers to the ground. I won't ask at the House again, but where will I ask? Where's Hursit Külter? Where is he really? It's been sixty-eight days, and I'm asking on behalf of all the calls in Turkey, and the Minister is here, and since 23 June, you've been silent, and we'll never stop asking, where is Hursit Külter?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0254par0454	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0255par0456	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit06spe0254par0457	I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient before the motion vote, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who don't accept... Since there's a difference of opinion among the clerk members, I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0254par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 122nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 409 from where we left off. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. There are two motions on Article 11: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the tender be changed in the form of the demand of the debtors, which is included in the 11th article of the Common Law Proposal 409. Ahmet Yıldırım İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Merkel Danış Beştaş Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Osman Baydemir Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is that the 11th article is subject to the violation of new jokes. I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission, and I'm going to dismiss the motion, if the Commission simply disagrees with the motion, according to the fourth joke of Article 87 of the Civil Code. Now, I'm going to read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following jokes be added to the 11th article of the current Law Proposal (7). Mehmet Mush Free İdris Bauken Mustafa Kalaycı Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu Mustafa Ilıcalı Hakan Çağuroğlu Zechariah Şımel Ramazan Can Mehmet Demir Emine Yavuz Köpün Ahmet Sami Ceylan Halil Eldemir Radiye Sezer Katırcıoğlu Nihat Özturk Abdullah Ozturk Mustafa Şükrü Nazlı Hüseyin Şahin As of 30/6/2016 (including this date), it is due to be paid until the release of the Law; 7/6/2005: the first installment of the debt due to the non-payment of the Trade and Arts Associations Act, followed the date of 5362; the third period of the month, when the trades and artists joined the rooms in which they are members of the rooms and the federations will receive an interest hike, such as the six-month period, and the six-month period of the loans will be paid in full interest, such as those of the Union and the federations in the Union and Artists of Turkey. In order to benefit from this joke verdict, it is imperative that the debtor's office be referred to by the end of the second month, following the date of the publication of this Law. If the amount required to be paid as a joke is not partially or fully paid in the manner prescribed in the joke, it is collected according to the laws of the legislation on whether they will receive interest, delay interest, and delay increase. In addition to meeting the terms set in the joke, those in debt who want to take advantage of this joke are required to not press charges, to drop lawsuits, and not to resort to law enforcement. In this scope, the costs of a full-payment hearing and the cost of adjudication and power of attorney are not mutually required. As of the date of the publication of this Law, the collection of members to the rooms, to the chambers, to the unity and federations, and to those who will receive the fer, such as interest, delay interest, delay increase, which has hit the originals, which the union and federations have paid in part or fully to the Confederacy. (9) As of 30/6/2016 (including this date), which was not paid until the time of the release of this Law; in accordance with the provisions dated 19/3/1969 of the Law on Law on Lawyers and Appliances 1136 of Lawyers and internship loans, all of the original loans and the original loans are to be paid by the end of the third month, the rest will be paid by the period of the month, and in the case of a total of six installments, the interest on these will be paid in interest, in interest rates, delays, fees, delays, delays, extensions such as those of lawyers and procedurements of the actual loans, or the actual loans of the actual loans, which have been paid at the end of the date of this law. Legal surveillance procedures and deletion procedures, based on the nonpayment of the bar cut and the intern loan debt, will be halted from the end of the payment period of the installments from the month to the date of which the law was published. In order to benefit from this joke verdict, it is imperative that the debtor be applied to the bar by the end of the second month, following the date of the publication of this Law. If the amount required to be paid in my joke scope is not in part or fully paid in the manner prescribed in the joke, be collected according to the laws of the legislation on whether they will receive interest, delay interest, delay increase, and the fer. In addition to meeting the terms set in the joke, those in debt who want to take advantage of this joke are required to not press charges, to drop lawsuits, and not to resort to law enforcement. In this scope, the costs of a full-payment hearing and the cost of adjudication and power of attorney are not mutually required. The Turkish Bar Association is authorized to determine the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this joke. (10) These villagers and the villagers who live in forest villages have come to pay the due date of the loans which they have not been paid by all the originals of the loans they have received from the originals of 24/4/1969, and their situation has been established by the Law of Cooperatives No. 1163, or will be calculated on the basis of their multi-purposed agricultural development co-ops, which has been adopted by the General Directorate of the Forest, although the term for which the Law has been issued has been issued, and will be paid by the same amount of the original taxis due to each one month's initial taxi, and will be paid by the same amount of five taxis as the initial taxis that were issued. If this joke is paid in accordance with the provisions, no interest, increase and coefficient will be applied to the times following the release of the Law. In accordance with this joke, lawsuits are terminated regarding the instalments. Judicial costs and cost of execution and power of attorney are not mutually required. The Director-General of the Forest is in charge of determining the procedure and the basis for the application of this joke. (11) By the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, you will receive non-payment due to the date of the period when this Law was issued, or to the co-opters, 30/6/2016, the annual rate of loans that were used to be used on loans before 30/6/2016 and the date of which this law was published, will be calculated on the basis of 3% of the annual rate of interest, which will be calculated by the end of the second month that this law has been published, and will be paid in the same amount of taxis as in the first month of the first year, and the beginning of the month of the administration of agriculture and the month of the month. If payment is paid in accordance with the provisions, no interest, increase and coefficient will be applied to the times following the release of the Law. If the debtor makes an application to take advantage of these joke judgments, the proceedings will be terminated and the execution hearings will be halted. In that case, the debtors must pay court and executive fees and the power of attorney along with the first installment. All of the purchases included in this joke are calculated and accounted for in accordance with the legislation that will be taken if the joke is not paid in the amount of time and manner predicted. In exchange for what comes into this joke, the sums paid before the release of this Law are not rejected or returned based on the provisions of this joke. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism is in charge of determining the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this joke. (12) From Science, Industry and Technology Ministry budget to Organised Industry Areas and Small Industry Site Construction Cooperates, loans that were used before 30/06/2016, loans that were not paid due, loans that were under law, loans that were under law, loan loans that were under way; until the end of the second month following the release of this law; they will be subject to the release of the loan payments to the banks that provided the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology approves, and they will receive the loan payments based on the actual interest, interest interest rate, the delay increase, rather than the delay increase; instead of the release of this law, will be issued by the first month's rate, and will be issued in accordance with the beginning of the release of the month. If the debtor makes an application to take advantage of these joke judgments, the proceedings will be terminated and the executions will be stopped. In that case, the debtors must pay court and executive fees with the first installment. All of the purchases included in this joke are calculated and paid in accordance with the legislation on the duration and manner prescribed by this Law. In exchange for what comes into this joke, the sums paid before the release of this Law are not rejected or returned based on the provisions of this joke. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology is in charge of determining the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this joke. (13) A total of those who have not exceeded the 100 Turkish liras and those who have not exceeded the 100 Turkish liras, including the interest of interest, delays and delay hikes and all kinds of fines and hikes in the contract), are essentially given up from those who have been transferred to private or public law, although their legal personality is in the registers of municipalities that have been removed under the Law 6360." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion that has just been read?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0256par0051	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0254par0052	Since the commission has only participated in the motion so often, I'm opening a discussion on the motion. There is no demand for word on the motion. A) In accordance with the Articles of the Trade and Arts Associations Act, the structure of members' debt to rooms, unity and federation of rooms, unity and federations to the Turkish Union of Traders and Artists, B) Confiscation of barracies that lawyers and paralegals must pay under Law 1136 and internship loans, C) Reconstruction of loans given by the Forest General Directorate to the forest villagers and the cooperatives formed by these villagers, ), the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, the restructuring of loans used by agricultural cooperatives or partners of these cooperatives, D) Reconfiguration of loans from the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology budget to Organised Industry Areas and Small Industrial Site Construction Co-operatives, e) the withdrawal of the collection of small consistent recipients from municipalities whose legal identity with Law 6360 has been removed from the province's private administration, It's intended. I submit to your votes the motion to add jokes to the clause, which the commission has mostly participated in: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the tender be changed in the form of the demand of the debtors, which is included in Article 11 of Law Proposal 409 in the article (1). Ahmet Yıldırım (Mush) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0257par0070	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0254par0071	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0258par0072	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0254par0073	İdris Baluken, Diyarbakır MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0259par0076	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm going to try to sum up in five minutes why we're in this kind of insecurity these days as long as we go through with the 409 rows of law. Remember, at the same time that December 17th-25th files were scattered around, in the same day, we submitted two research proposals to parliament as Peoples' Democratic Party. We have suggested that two commissions be set up by the Parliament, in view of these motions for research. What were they? One was that the commission to investigate corruption was to be established by Parliament immediately and to examine the allegations in all those files; and the second was a research motion to investigate the discovery of the parallel state structure and take necessary measures. Both of our motions have unfortunately been rejected by your vote. Look, if those two motions had been accepted that day, there would have been no doubt about the 409th Law Proposal, which we had discussed today, there would have been no distrust here, nor would Turkey have experienced the pain of surviving a coup attempt during this stormy period. Therefore, you need to conduct a background check and review of the proposals presented by the opposition from this bench. If I were your group vice presidents in this frame of reference, I would take out all the talks that the word "corruption" or the word "black money laundering" was pronounced here on the floor of the House, and give my own group a chance to review what kind of attitude I'm taking as a ruling party. But unfortunately, since you didn't do that, we're both very insecure about the work you've done during the time we've been through with the coup, as well as the power of the resolution of the legislation you've brought here. Look, right now, in this stormy environment, maybe a little forgotten, but there are two important files that have been debated in the international public during your administration that will make Turkey very difficult. The first is the Reza Zarrab file, the second is the Zencani file in Iran. Look, we've been talking about these files over and over again here. I'm talking about files on money laundering, gold smuggling crimes, international bribery charges and financing of terrorism that are going to put the country in a very difficult position in the future. Now, in the face of such a reality, you insist on putting that bill back in a bag that the opposition is concerned about as a money laundering law, worried about, and wants to replace it with suggestions. When you came here in the last few weeks, when you pulled that clause, the talks on the bag of legislation were quickly concluded, but today, once again, we, the opposition, are trying to carry out our warning mission once again, as you have brought this proposal here without any regulation, without the opposition's concerns. Why are you in such a hurry? Because he needs hot money because the economy's about to collapse, the alarm bells are going off. But will the economy survive with the shady money that's coming? You all know better than to get rid of us. You all know there's no cure for the wound. If there is no democracy in a country, there is no respect for the state of law, there is no respect for the state of law, there is a lot of serious concerns about freedom, and perhaps, above all, if there is no inner peace, there is no way for the economy to come to life. So, if you want to make an adjustment to the economy, what you need to do is to make radical reforms in order to expand democracy, peace and freedoms, and to bring legal regulations that are appropriate to the House. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0260par0083	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the motion: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article has been accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. As it is known, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Civil Code, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but requires a change of a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be held as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has already attended. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause can be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and a number of motions may be submitted in this article. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission agrees to the motion with the majority, I will open the debate on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added after Article 11 of the Law Proposal for Reconstruction of some of the currently held 409 rows, and that the material numbers be identified accordingly. Mehmet Mus Free Special Times Demirel MADDE 12. - 22.4. 1983, and 71 of the Law on Political Parties No. 2820. Article 2. 2 of his joke. After the declaration of the department's ranks, all kinds of notices, including service contracts, were added. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0261par0097	Mr. President, there are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0260par0098	Since the commission has only participated in the motion so often, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause. I see you don't have any demands. Due to the absence of a rhetorical request, I submit the grounds for the motion to the General Assembly's information. A narrow interpretation of the contract definition in Article 71 of the Political Party Act aims to prevent pauses. The amendment is also envisioned in terms of service contracts in order to prevent abuse of rights. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In this way, a new substance has been applied as the 12th article. We continue to discuss the current clauses of the Commission's text so as not to cause any confusion. Article numbers will be identified in the writing of the law. There's a motion on Article 12 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the Law Proposal No. 409 be changed at the date of the extension. Ahmet Yıldırım İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Merkel Danış Beştaş Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Osman Baydemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0262par0113	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0260par0114	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0263par0115	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0260par0116	İdris Baluken, Diyarbakır MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0264par0119	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, once again, I salute you all. I made a promise to express a few loose ends in the last conversation. Now, we just put together a certain frame. In particular, I want to draw your attention to the current process of the AKP (AKP) before the November 1st elections and after the November 1st elections. Because the people of Turkey, the Turkish community, will soon begin to question this existing phase. Look, before the November 1st election, you gave us the authority to rule alone so that we could bring peace and stability to this country, and for that, you made serious propaganda in the fields. In fact, you made a commitment to the entire Turkish community of Turkey for 79 million in order to achieve democraticisation, economic development, and social peace before the November 1st elections, by giving up the presidential system in the June 7th election propaganda efforts, or a number of wrong practices, and by taking advantage of the shock impact of the conflict that was created during that period, you got 49.5% of the vote, so you were in power alone. This community has shown great respect for you, at least with that expectation, for your promise to bring peace and stability to this country. But, what did you do? At the moment we're here today, can you talk about peace and stability in this country when we consider this entire year's process? Can you say that any member of this country today, from 79 million to tomorrow or the next week, or a few months later, in a peaceful and stable country, can think of my own future? Come on, citizens, as MPs sitting at this time, can you use a sentence like that right now? Today, unfortunately, we face a great deal of chaos and great instability in the present environment. Returning to AKP's factory settings... You said we were going to make major reforms after the November 1st election, but unfortunately, since you put in the opposite practices, there's a great deal of anxiety in our country today, a great deal of uncertainty and shortsightedness about the future. Look, let me summarize this through some concrete events. Just two days ago, those who had been close to the AKP had made calls on social media, saying, "There is activity in Tatvan, İncirlik, and Alexanderun in barracks, and we are calling the people to the street." So you've taken the country to such a stage that, despite the official explanations of the threat of impact, you haven't been able to avoid the country as of today. Still, the danger of violence has been completely avoided, so let me take a closer look at the rest of the process, and he does not feel at rest. Again, in the other 50 per cent who are particularly opposed to you, the AKP or Erdogan has great fears that by creating an opportunity from the present situation, it will sign applications that will go to a dictatorial system? You need to make a self-criticism about all of this. Look, I've stated on this stand before, that every one of you needs to review the Commission and General Assembly protocols regarding the arrangement that you have granted immunity and immunity to those who have taken the military coup. So we're dealing with a tragedy that the people who did the coup that day didn't actually do anything illegal there until I showed their will. You had already given them the authority to get the tanks into the city areas, to get the cannons into the city areas, and to do all kinds of destruction there, and if you do so at that time here at that time, you will condemn this country to a coup the day after tomorrow. In the coming days, of course, we're going to talk about all the relationships and mistakes you've made in the past, and we're going to discuss them here. My advice to you is to do this process of self-criticism as soon as possible, and how can we get out of this stalemate as quickly as possible? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We'll vote for this bill because it has this money laundering arrangement. And once again, for the last time, I invite you not to make such a mistake. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0265par0130	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 12th article is accepted.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0266par0133	We're withdrawing the motion.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0265par0134	There was a motion on Article 13 that was withdrawn. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 13th article is accepted. Congressmans, this concludes the vote of the substances in the second chapter. Before we take an open vote on the entire proposal, I will make a pledge to the members of parliament who have demanded the color of the game in accordance with Article 86 of the Civil Code. It's Kazim Arlen, Denizli MP who wants to express the color of the game. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0267par0141	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment to the entire Law on Reconstruction of some of the Buyers of 409 rows. I salute you all with love and respect. The bill, generally speaking, brings an arrangement for the construction of tax debt, bonus debt, tax fine, administrative fine, delay hike, pardon of many issues related to interest forgiveness. With this arrangement, it is clear that some ease has been brought to the business world by restructuring public revenues. However, in general, the fact that a frequent tax pardon has been brought to you is disturbing to many honest taxpayers. Therefore, I would like to point out that it would be helpful to bring these in a more orderly, more careful way. The biggest missing aspect of the law is: there has been no financial analysis of the financial burden of this law on the state and sectors with clear figures. In this regard, the government did not reveal how much tax he would give up by making this pardon. The fact that this law, which has come to parliament as a tax pardon, has brought forth the method of money laundering in particular has become the most critical of this law. Hence, it is clear that many taxpayers who earn money, pay their taxes, pay their debts are disturbed by the arrangement. Under the name of the entity's peace, the grounds are also set for uncertain funds to go smoothly through justice and security control. There has never been such a tax-free peace in our republic's history. There is no doubt that there is no such peace anywhere in the world. I suggested to the Minister that you bring this money into the country tax-free, but how much of it will remain in Turkey, what will it gain the economy, did you evaluate it? As soon as this money comes in, if it comes out again, it's never going to make a profit for the country. So I said, at least if you didn't take it in, you should be able to get the money to better the economy by taxing it out and putting it in for a certain amount of time, but our proposal was not taken into consideration. Now, it's also a fact that, once every two years, both in our industry and in our trades, our government has failed to contribute in the long term, and so the collection of taxes is not very good. Therefore, I would like to point out that a comprehensive tax reform would be beneficial rather than a frequent government tax pardon. We agreed throughout this law, but no matter what, even though we wanted a lot of issues to be raised in the 7th article, some regulations were fulfilled, some of our demands were fulfilled, but they were not able to satisfy many of our doubts. Therefore, we would also like to say that the adoption of this law is positive because it has forgiven many tax pardons, bonuses, interest, and punishment that the business is awaiting. However, I would also like to point out that we will reject our vote because of our doubts and, in particular, the fact that this clause for money laundering has not been removed from this law. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0268par0149	Thank you, Mr. lion. End of discussion on Article 86 of the Civil Code. Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. At a meeting of the Council of Counsellor 3/8/2016 on Wednesday, it was fitting that the General Assembly not meet on Thursday (7/8/2016) should be submitted to the General Assembly's approval. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. I submit the counsel board proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0269par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. We have completed the talks of this proposal, including arrangements that we find important and positive concerning large communities. We, of course, support the structure of taxes and some debts as the National Movement Party. Unfortunately, however, our motion to reduce taxes to taxpayers who have paid taxes three years in a row and paid taxes on time has also been rejected. Furthermore, despite the fact that it was in a previous bag of bills, it did not satisfy our concerns despite some retouchations, which were removed from the bill due to intense criticism and debates, which we thought were an arrangement called the peace of existence, which, in fact, allowed the money to be laundered. Of course, we can't possibly count all the money that comes under this clause, but it's a material that allows us to count all the money that comes in. Again, the government had promised to bring the issue of the peace of existence into a separate arrangement, which was not fulfilled. In this proposal, the application of the AKP to place harmful special arrangements among the positive issues the AKP has often applied to shows itself. As a result, we respectfully declare that we will vote against this bill for these reasons, which we find positive, which regulates this tax fine, insurance premium, and the configuration of some other creditors. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0270par0175	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0271par0178	Mr. President, thank you. In particular, the withdrawal of the black money clause of this law on May 14th, and the removal of a number of concerns with the very serious contributions of our group, but it is still in an environment of concern, but it is very important from the fact that this joint working environment has emerged today, and from the perspective of Turkey's reputation abroad. But the general approach of our group was expressed by our predecessor. The reason I'm taking promises is because of a suggestion. After such laws came out, after a period of application period for tax-related and other regulations was completed, I missed the application, I didn't know, and when will the next debate begin? If the Minister agrees, you can benefit from these advantages if you apply by preparing a public spot by the Ministry until this deadline. We consider the approach to be positive for all of us and for the citizens. Thank you, everyone who contributes.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0272par0182	Thank you, Mr. Special. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help from members who can't get into the system and those who can't even get into the system to deliver the ballots to the presidency within the time prescribed for the vote. Also, I'd like to request that they vote for any minister who will vote for the power of attorney, pass the ballot with his name and name and signature back to the presidency during the time envisioned for the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Justice and Development Party Group Deputy President Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş and Isparta MP Saryya Sadi Bilcic as a result of a clear vote on the Law Proposal for the Reconstruction of Some Buys: [[X]] The offer is accepted and legalized. Good luck with that. Congressmans, the Commission has a request to say thank you. Is it your position or the bench, Mr. Wiseman?
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0273par0202	I can speak for myself.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0272par0203	Here you go. I'm opening your micron.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0273par0204	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we thank you for your support in our proposal for the restructuring of this public debt that almost all of our community is looking forward to. We thank our friends, our MPs, our political parties, our government, especially our Finance Minister, and the very valuable Treasury bureaucrats, our Budget Commission employees and Law Decisions. I hope it will be a blessing for our country and for our nation, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-03sit07spe0274par0207	Thank you, wise guy. Congressmans, it's 24 o'clock today. We've completed our work on the basis of the work decision until 00. According to the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (August 9th 2016) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00. I bid you good night.
