tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 92nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0002par0003	No, Mr. President, there isn't, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0003par0004	Mr. President, have fear of God.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0001par0005	I see it, sir, I see it.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0003par0006	Where are 184 people?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0001par0007	Mr. Mahmut, I see it, sir, I do.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0003par0008	My dear President, you're making false statements. It's not appropriate in that office.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0001par0009	Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Afyonkarahisar MP Burcu Koksal, who wants to speak about Afyonkarahisar's problems. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0004par0016	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the problems of Afyonkarahisar, but I can't pass through here without a few sentences about our country's agenda. Since June 7th, we have martyred over 500 of our children. Just last week, in my constituency, Afyonkarahisar, we lost two sons of our country to terror in one week. You're creating a perception management that makes this country look like the Republican People's Party, the Republican People's Party, who greets terrorists with red carpets and drums and drums. The head of the Republican People's Party in the Prime Ministership, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, welcomes PYD leader Salih Müslim? In the name of the solution process, don't operate on governors and governors in the east and southeast, don't touch the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), we've brought the solution process. Was it my President-in-Chief Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu who said? Were Galip Ensarioğlu and Yasin Aktay People's Party MPs visiting the PKK? The letter of terrorist leader Apo (Apo), including the agreement of Dolmabahçe, TRT, is 18...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0001par0018	Mr. Rootsal... Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0004par0020	... When it was broadcast on the TV station...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0001par0021	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0004par0022	... Were the ministers present with HDP MPs from Cumhuriyet People's Party?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0001par0023	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0004par0024	I speak to those who follow us here: The Republican People's Party is not the one who revenants terror, nor the Republican People's Party that supports terrorism.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0001par0025	Dear friends, let's stop humming, please.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0004par0026	Now, I'm curious about something. In the cases of Ergenekon and Sledgehammer, you have arrested soldiers in the Turkish Armed Forces on the promise of PKK terrorists such as Şemdin Sakık. Now, the immunity of HDP MPs has been lifted. When they were on trial, he was the Prime Minister of the period, who instructed us to meet with Kandil, who was a requester, who was then Minister of Interior Besir Atalay, Yalçın Akdoğan and the Undersecretary of MİS, and we committed this crime as partners. If they confess, will these names be judged, or will you also exonerate them as you had previously cleared the four ministers? There's a Republican People's Party. If it weren't for the Republican People's Party, what party would you be trying to destroy all the mistakes you've made in a row in the pool media? Although you'd accuse one of the ones you're arm in arm, and then you'd form a criminal organization because it was upright, it was parallel, and you'd make it a criminal. Because your only fear is the Republican People's Party. Like all parts of Turkey, my country, my constituency, Afyonkarahisar, is bleeding. Look, Iscehisar County is the heart of marble, but unfortunately that heart is beating, the marblers are bankrupt, a marble stove closes every day, and the workers working on that stove are unemployed. Last year, the crops were damaged due to the rains. Especially the potato and cherry makers. This year, the crops are miserable in the fields. See, that's what the disease called dwarf disease did to the crops. The farmer's applying to the county's agricultural directorate, says: "My products are sick, my products are damaged." But no one from the county's agriculture department is going to study there. It is said to the farmer, "Bring a pinch of it." They are looking at it. What is this? What is this? It's a disease. The government program will also be announced today, so let's make it known to the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. We've decided to intervene, we'll buy the milk at $1.15. You said. For God's sake, what kind of milkmaker buys milk for $1.15? I spoke to many milk producers from Dazrır, to Emirdağ, to Hodjas, to Salar. None of them gave milk for $1.15, for the most expensive 90-95. We're bringing support to the group. You're saying. Look, in the village of Gençali in Dinar County -- they don't ask for grants or donations from you -- they want young people to be animal workers on a dump site that's lost its status, where it's a dump, and that's what all the Young People want. It's not a district where the Republican People's Party is the 1st, it's a village where you're the 1st, it's a village where you're the 1st. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you don't serve where the Republican People's Party is the 1st, so at least take service there.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0005par0035	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement is from Samsun MP Erhan Ustah, who asked for a comment on the release of Ataturk (May 19th) to Hanım, Youth and Sports Day and Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0006par0039	Mr. President, first of all, if you could just...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0005par0040	Sir, it's buzzing, please, no buzzing inside, please let's do the negotiations outside. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0007par0043	Mr. President, we have welcomed the 97th anniversary of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, a valuable member of the Turkish nation, in May 19, 1919, with pride and excitement, but with a heavy mood due to the news of martyrs and veterans from the eastern and southeast of our country. Tomorrow is May 25th, the 97th anniversary of the arrival of Ataturk. As it is known, the Basin had an important place in the beginning of the struggle for salvation. The Turkish nation, a deep historical and deeply rooted culture, has lived independently since it took part in the history scene, has failed those who have done otherwise, has opened the era, has written history, and has guided history. The Turkish nation is confident and conscious, strong enough to ignore its history of thousands of years of victories, ignore it, even deny it, practice division, and not surrender to the collaborators inside and outside. They will never achieve their goal, they will never achieve it, they will never achieve it, they will never achieve it, when they are in the spirit of unity and unity, killing machines and every aggressive intention that seek to condemn our country to strife and darkness. The greatest danger we face today is separating our nation from each other by talking about 36 ethnic structures at all times. The fact that we're a nation, the martyrs we've given this country, the sufferings we've suffered together, the neighborhoods we live in, the cities we've built, the challenges we've endured, and the girls we've given. Our nation is aware and aware of the armed and political representatives of the games that have been played on our country, the sold and the traitors. Therefore, our nation will break the play, stand up against all attacks from outside and from within, and will not allow conspiracies in dark corners. Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades have launched a holy war that has spread throughout Asia Minor, beginning with faith that the situation of our country is not destiny and that the nation's independence will again save the nation's determination and decision. The first move against occupation and captivity, which began in Samsun on 19 May 1919, was to drive bravely towards the peaceful horizons of the nation's love and, most importantly, nationalism. May 19th, a final answer to those who dare to share their homelands and to those who lay hands on them is a wonderful expression that freedom will be obtained by giving life if necessary. 1919, the medal of pride in Turkish history, the center of gravity, is the challenge of imperialism of the will for independence. Therefore, contempt, minimizing, demeaning 1919 is not a righteous and righteous attitude. 1919 is the memory and eternal memory of a nationalist consciousness who carried Çanakkale in his heart and made a compass of Turkish history full of victories. The determination to fight a national battle from Samsun, the first daring, the first courage in the Basin, the first organization in Amasya, announced the nation's determination and decision in Erzurum, announced that the country is whole and cannot be broken down, established the Grand National Assembly in Ankara by rejecting Manda and protection in Sivas. For those who seek to break the land of our saints, watered by the blood of our martyrs, against those who reckon to drive the Turkish nation out of these lands, our beloved nation has become an unbreakable wall, an unbreakable fort and an unbending wrist. At a time when hope was at an end, the Turkish nation's spirit of unity and solidarity acted in nationalist consciousness, lighting the torch of independence, rejecting occupation and captivity in a certain way. The historic journey, which began in Samsun with the protection of God and the sacrifices of our beloved nation, has reached a conclusion with the republic in the capital city of Ankara. To bring us together in the future, the assurance of unity, unity and continuity of our youth's public peace and prosperity is the greatest proof that our nation will exist as long as the world stops. With these thoughts, I celebrate the Memorial, Youth and Sports Day on the anniversary of this very meaningful day when the struggle for salvation began for the unity and integrity of our country. I pray for the grace of God to all the heroes of the time of the national struggle, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and our beloved martyrs, all of them with gratitude and gratitude. I salute the Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0008par0059	Thank you, Master. The third non-responsive statement is from Kırşehir MP Mikail Arslan. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0009par0064	Mr. President, honored members of our High Council, I have taken an off-the-book promise every year for the last week of May, due to the Ahilik and the Festival of Esnaf. Therefore, I salute you worthy members of our Parliament. Before I begin this year, I know that Mr. Necmettin Erkan, our head of the Esnaf and Artists, Mr. Benvi Palandöken, our Minister of Customs and Trade, Mr. Bkent TESKOMB President Mr. Abdulkadir Akgüle, General Manager of the Public Bank, Mr. Ali Fuat Taşçı, Mr. President of the Council of Ministers, President of the Council of the Council, President of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Arts, Mr. Necmettin Erkan, Mr. Benvi Palandöken, and everyone else who has a significant support for the celebrations of the members of the TESKOMB President, Mr. Abdulkadir Akgüle, President of the People's Bank, Mr. Ali Fuat Erksenlı, Mayor of the Council of the Council of the Council, and the Council of the Council, and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council, and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers, and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers, and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers, and the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers, is in the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers, and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers of the Council of the Council of Ministers of the Council of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers, the Council of Ministers. I also want to thank the newly elected members of our 65th government for their success in the land of Kırşehir Ahiler, and for their service to our 64th government. Kırşehir is a centre home to a large number of spiritual architects who have made Anatolian geography a home. While home to Yunus Emre, Ashk Pasha and Gülşehri, who waved our sound flag in Anatolia, Hajji Bektat Veli, Sheikh Edebali, Süleyman Türkmani, who was the sultan of our spiritual climate. And, of course, the founder of the Abyssinite also hosted Pir-i piran, the saint of Saint Ahi Evran Sultan, who was considered the piri of 32 tradesmen. As I begin my words again, today, the World Humanitarian Summit is held in Turkey, and I sincerely congratulate all of Turkey's Festival of Relations. Dear friends, the people of Ahiklik, Anatolia are an art of humanity that has developed both economic and moral education in various professions, based on the virtues of good people in working life. In time, this institution became one of the building blocks of Seljuclu and Ottoman state philosophy as a socioeconomic order adopted throughout Asia Minor. However, despite the scars and spiritual dynamics that the Constitution has left in our history, it does not have the full reward it deserves in today's Turkey. I'd like to make a few points in that direction. First of all, it has to be thought of as an economic philosophy and model. The science of mainstream economics claims that modern economics began in the 18th century with classical economics. This model is also the ancestor of neoliberal policies, which have been complained by those who have a conscience, put personal interests first, lack regulation and supervision. On the other hand, the Ahilik system, which was established in the 13th century and put social responsibility, solidarity, and merit on the basis of the economy, did not find its place in economic literature. The concept of secularism is unfortunately seen by modern - day people as a romantic dream that has only fulfilled its mission and is again buried in the pages of history. However, it is not a system of myths and heroes on earth, but a way of life that society has taken out of its own dynamics in order to ensure the justice it needs and the peace it will bring with it. Besides, if there are over 2 billion obese people on the other side of the world starving to bed, and on the other hand, there are two billion obese people on the other hand, and on the other hand, there are debates about how children should take coding lessons in elementary school, and 230 million children can't even stay in the middle of civil wars and plan their future, then today there is more than ever before. In fact, as the world gets worse and worse, so should humanity. As an NGO movement, we think that the Ahilik should be more understood and experienced today. Dear friends, I'd like to stop talking about the fundamental principles of the constitution. The forehead, heart, hand, table, and door must be open, but the tongue, eye, and waist of the Abyss is bound. As the city of Ahi, we are open to light, to service, to righteousness and to righteousness, to love and to respect; and he says, "We are closed to darkness, to idleness, to deception, and to lying; and I salute you all again with respect, and with love, and with respect.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0010par0074	Thank you, Mr. lion. I'm going to pledge a minute to the 15 MPs who have entered the system and demanded a word, one minute to the members of the group's leadership, two minutes to their place, according to the agreement between the Turkish Grand National Assembly's deputies. The first statement is from Mr. Aytuğ Ater. Here you go, sir. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the problem of the bus that Mersin Metropolitan Municipality cannot solve is now taking the lives of the citizen. The bus station, which was completed under CHP administration and opened by the MPP Mayor, has still been out of operation for more than two years. I've expressed this problem before in the High Council and pointed out the problem. Citizens are brought down in the rain, in the mud by the side of the road. That's better than a 65-year-old aunt from Adıyaman to Mersin last week who didn't run the bus, so she got run over by the side of the road and died horribly. Again, last Sunday, a number of groups clashed and the buses were stoned because of problems with the bus business. The lives of passengers in Mersin are threatened. How will the mayor manage the husband, Mersin, who can't even run a bus station? The mayor must resign immediately without damaging the city. Thank you. Artvin MP Ugur Bayraktutan, please, sir. Thank you, Mr. President. Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu is here, I'm speaking to him. A retired notary in Artvin built the world's largest statue of Ataturk: 40 tons of steel, 10 tons of copper, 60 tons, 22 meters high, but in front of it, "We're on an Atam trail." It says, across from Artvin. This person, this notary, has handed this place over to the Ministry of Forests for free, for free. There's been a problem with lighting this place up for 14 months. I asked the Minister, "How much did you spend?" he said: "O my people! He said he spent $1,359 on lighting up in 13 months as Minister of the Forest. Mr. Secretary, I will give that money to the Ministry of Forestry, I pledge it. A forest ministry spent $1,359 on an enormous Ataturk statue in Artvin, and if you've answered me in writing, I have nothing to say to you, Mr. Secretary. That can't be happening! I know why you're doing this, "We're on vacation." I know you don't like the sound of that. I don't want to light it up with $1.359... I leave how you respond to me, to the public's discretion, to Turkey's discretion. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, sir. Mr. Salih Cora, Congressman of Tripoli... SALIH CORA (Trabzon), reported on Sunday (May 22nd) that Hatay had a body in a raft off the coast of Samandağ, Çevlik, Turkey, and that the Coast Guard had been killed in the explosion when they were inspecting the area, and we sent Alper Alpazar-born in Tripoli Shalpazar to Hakk. The terrorist organization has shown its vile and treacherous face once again. Until yesterday, our bodies are on the street. I wonder what they'll say now, those who teach human rights over terrorist carcasses. Once again, by planting a bomb trap on the bodies, we've seen that they don't even respect the fabric of dead bodies, that they're doing their actions with monstrous emotions. I want you to know that the AK PARTY is committed to fighting terrorism. Operations will continue until the last terrorist is cleared of this land. I speak to the speakers of them, and ask no mercy of us, and you shall fall into the pit which you have dug. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy for all our martyrs. Thank you. Mr. Erkan Aydın, Mr. Bursa MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0011par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. The new government has been announced today. In this week, Turkey will also receive a vote of confidence from the Grand National Assembly. The government will be the first government of the Republic of Turkey to be formed at jet speed. It seems the government will try to change the regime as the President's government rather than the republic's government. In our political history, governments have been given various names, such as the National Front Government, the Government of Reconciliation. And Haldun Taner, the playwright, whom I remember with mercy, predicted the name of this government many years ago, said: I will close my eyes and do my duty. I will close my eyes and do my duty to the government. But I also point out that if they try to change the regime, we're going to play the Keşanlı Ali Destiny as the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0010par0103	Master Erhan, Samsun MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0012par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. With a decision recently made by the government, about 2,000 agricultural advisers have been unemployed. But we know in Turkey that agriculture is extremely low and agriculture needs to be more scientific, it's a need. If it's wrong, if there's a blockage in the system, it's very wrong not to fix the system when they need to be corrected, but to terminate most of the agricultural advisers, almost all of them. My constituency, Samsun, has recently been introduced to us by agricultural advisers. So what we demand from the government is the immediate removal of this victim and the re-employment of agricultural advisers, and the effort to increase efficiency in agriculture. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0013par0109	Thank you. Niğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer Bey, come in, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0014par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. At the beginning of this year, our farmer was victimised by drought and frost, and the weekend was full and snowed. So, our manufacturer and our farmer are very victimized, and we need immediate damage detection and support for the farmer, and the manufacturer needs to be dealt with. They failed to sell the produce they produced last year, and this year the crops and the crops in the field were damaged. Right now, outside the Farmer's Recording System, the farmer's victims need to be compensated, the producer's victimization, field detection, and the one who deserves it must be paid in full. In 2014, the money given because of the frost was returned last year, and in order to avoid the same problem, the identification of our farmers and producers must be correct. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0015par0117	Thank you. Giresun MP Bkent Yener Bektaşoglu, come in, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0016par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish you the best of luck to the new government, which has been established as head of Mr. Bululi Yıldırım. Many workers were left unemployed as a result of privatisation of Giresun Doğankent HES, one of the first hydropower plants of the Black Sea. The new management of the business preferred to conduct services via subcontractor. Thus, as of May 1st, only 40 of the 120 workers employed were agreed to sign. The 83 remaining workers, unfortunately, are victims. However, this has not been done when there is a possibility of protecting the rights and laws of workers who have worked for ten or fifteen or twenty years under privatisation. As with other privatisations, the interests of capital have been looked after, not by labour and labour. As a result, our Doğankent district is also victimised, not only by workers, but by HES and its employees. Social peace and peace have been corrupted by the reaction of workers and tradesmen in the district. I'm calling on the Minister to rectify this situation and protect the current work structure there. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0017par0124	Thank you. Mr. Elif Doğan Türkmen, come in, ma'am.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0018par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Happy Reunion Day, also Ahilik Week, is the district of Adana Province of May 25, 1920. The will, established by the Republic of Turkey, aims at secular, democratic law state and economic and modern education and civilization in the continuation of its victory over imperialism. I see we're moving away from that target today. However, these efforts will not be fulfilled because there is a Republican People's Party in this country that will retain the founding will. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0019par0130	Thank you. Kayseri MP Sami Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0020par0133	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Our government's support for agriculture and livestock continues. In particular, our farmers benefit from these benefits and offer their gratitude everywhere. Kayseri was sent to our security forces in the southeast by buying 110 tons of apples from our farmers in Yeşelihisar and Yahyalı districts of our province. Also, the problems of Musahacılı, Derbentbaşı and Kayadibi neighbourhoods of Yeşilhisar district will be resolved as soon as possible. I'd like to thank our government and citizens separately for their support.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0021par0136	Thank you. Adıyaman MP Adnan Boynukara...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0022par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. People sometimes talk through symbols, they declare their political thoughts and positions, such as the HDP co-Chair speaking in front of photographs of dictators and murderers at a meeting outside the country on the weekend. I want to tell you about two photographs: one is Mao. According to the records, Mao is responsible for the deaths of 50 million people. The other is Stalin. Again, according to the records, Stalin is responsible for the deaths of 24 million people. Speaking in front of photographs of dictators, murderers and terrorists is an important evidence to understand the speaker's political thinking and feeding resources. The people he fired by saying, "What more do you want?" I thank the people of the region who were thrown into terror, violence, racism, and the waste of history, who did not support representatives of the Maoist and Stalinist understanding.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0023par0143	Mr. Baki Simsek, MP of Mersin...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0024par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. About Mersin, Mr. Aytuğ Horseman brought up the problem of the bus station. The Mersin Autogar was launched during the Republican People's Party municipality and ended by the National Movement Party municipality. CHP's municipality has used 30 trillion lira loans to build this bus station; the municipality of MPP is currently paying its debt. The city has been auctioned off about the bus station, about the sale. Under the notification of parliament, the tender was opposed by the AKP, CHP, HDP alliance. Later, the National Party of Movement reached a tender for rent in the city, which included rent of the bus station and a bid of about 5 trillion in the rent tender, which resulted in a contest between companies. The mayor has warned the authorities that this money is difficult to pay. However, the company issued its guarantee and received the tender, declaring that it would pay. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] However, he didn't pay the rent later, and the National Party of Movement filed a municipal evacuation suit. However, the court is not yet concluded, the case is on trial. We don't find it elegant for a party that has lost the election to a elected mayor elected by the people's will of national will to ask him to resign. I leave it at the discretion of the High Council, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0025par0152	Thank you. Mr. Hilmi Maker of Hatay...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0026par0155	Mr. President, jihadist killers continue to take lives in Syria. Finally, more than 100 people died in a total of 7 explosions in the district of Gibraltar and Tartus, in Lazkiye, and targeting civilians. Until the sensitive public raises their voice against the imperialist-backed civil war in Syria, such massacres will continue every day, and we will lose a piece of our humanity in each massacre. I blame the pool media for sharing the same world of thought with the massacres by announcing the atrocities that took place in the castle of Asad. I want to point out that I have no problem breathing the same air as them.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0025par0157	Thank you. Mr. Mustafa Tuncer, our Amassian MP, come in, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0027par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. Dr. Hakan Barış Demirbaş, who was in charge of the emergency room at Amasya Merzifon State Hospital, was hit by a patient on May 20, 2016 and was unable to work for seven days. I'm condemning the fatality. It should not be forgotten that health workers, despite their poor numbers and poor wages, serve with great sacrifice for human health. This self - sacrificing work should not be rewarded with violence, insults, and threats. When he gets stabbed in the hand with a pin, authorities who burn themselves to the doctor look at the attacks on health workers as if they were a petty case. In fact, the lack of reaction is due to political power. It is the political power that confronts citizens and health workers, which causes citizens to suffer from depression due to financial health care, which then causes them to attack health workers, but leaves health workers alone after the attack. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I convey my condolences to our doctor and the health community, and as the Republican People's Party, we are always there for you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0028par0165	Thank you. Mr. Serdal Welkeroglu...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0029par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. Some of my written questions, approved on January 13, 2016, about the construction of rail systems and subways in various municipalities of our country, were not answered by the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, but I will follow my questions. In this context, because of the shortness of time, I bring up only two questions for now. One: How much does Istanbul, Ankara, Antalya and finally the rail systems and subways of the province, which have been transferred to the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, cost the Treasury? Two: What number of rail system subway projects have so far been approved by the Ministry of Transport and submitted to the approval of the Council of Ministers for production? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0030par0173	Thank you, sir. Mr. Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0031par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish our new government good luck to our country, to work for law, justice, freedom. Dear MPs, ministers, there is a state hospital in Chile district of Istanbul, but there are no doctors in every branch. City buses from Chile County to Istanbul do not work, but public buses do. The price of public buses is too high, and our people are going from Chile to Istanbul in the way they arrive. Our people are victims of this. Besides, there's no parking lot downtown. When will this problem with Chile be resolved? At the same time, there is Yavuzturk neighbourhood in our district of Üskudar. Every semester, the zoning and property problem was said to be taken care of. It had been discussed with the ministers of the past, and they said they would address the zoning and property problem of Yavuzturk neighbourhood. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But so far, it hasn't been taken care of. I hope, and I hope, that the newly elected minister will be interested in this problem. Thank you. Thank you. Sir, it's time for Mr. Erkan Akçay Bey, Deputy Director of the National Movement Party. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0032par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. May 24th is the anniversary of the beginning of the mandatory migration from Bulgaria to Turkey. In 1989, the Turkish citizens of Bulgaria were driven into the Turkish border in mass. About 400,000 Bulgarian Turks have arrived in Turkey. Despite all these years, the problems of our Bulgarian immigrant citizens remain. The ability to lend our citizens their working hours abroad, to overcome the shortages of residence permits, to deal with the costly health costs of our immediate health - care brothers, are the main issues facing solutions. On the anniversary of the migration, I call upon the government to be sensitive to the problems of immigrants. From May 24th to May 30th, it is the week of Compassion for the Children of the Street. The issue of street children is a subject that saddens us, even as concepts, that our society, the government and all of us should be sensitive. Street boys are on the edge of a cliff, open to all kinds of evil. With books, pencils, professions, our children, who should be involved in the future of our nation, are dragged into the grip of drugs, alcohol, smoking, violence, and abuse. In the Constitution, the state is defined as a social state. The government has been tasked with taking all kinds of measures to bring children in need of protection into society, to establish relevant institutions and institutions, but more importantly than this mission, it is to create a social awareness about this, because the solution to the problem of street children depends on society to have this problem consciously.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0033par0192	I'll add a minute, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0032par0193	However, these children need to be withdrawn from the street environment and taken into care in a family or institution, directed to education or qualified working environments. The government must act and take the necessary measures to create a social awareness of the problems of street children and the solution of these problems by making this special day available. I'm also congratulating the Memorial Week on this occasion. And next week, I wish that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would also have an agenda for the problems of our secular and tradesmen.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0033par0195	Thank you. Sir, the People's Democratic Party, Mr. Çağlar Demirel, come in, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0034par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have repeatedly stated that there is no freedom of thought and expression in the country. Again, there's an understanding that our party can't stand meeting with the people and the development of democratic politics, not even our own masses, not even our programming to meet our people in the provinces. We are faced with a mindset that can't stand the meeting of our people and the meeting of our party, our MPs, our co-chairs and representatives of the institution, and can't stand violence, oppression, gas, military and police practices, water and people meeting their own deputies. We'd like to rephrase that we never agreed to this. We would like to say once again that we will never accept the violence of the people in Siirt, Batman, Kızıltepe, and any obstacle to the meeting of MPs and their chosen ones with the people will not be accepted. Immunity has been lifted, but we said we can't mention that we already have immunity. I just want to put it in a couple of examples. Again, we had these public meetings and with him a visit to the refugee camp, where our MPs were not allowed. Sadly, our MPs who want to visit the refugee camp in Nizip, where children have been abused are not allowed to visit. We'd like to ask you why the MPs aren't allowed to go anywhere by the ministry or by the authorities, and we'd like an answer. We're not allowed to go to prisons.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0035par0202	I'll add a minute, ma'am.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0034par0203	We are not allowed to go to Nizip camp or camps, nor are our applications rejected, but there is no positive answer. So, we want our Speaker of Parliament to answer for the dissolution of the People's Democratic Party, as well as for the problems we face in the general area within Parliament. Why aren't we being answered about going to camps or prisons at work? Why are we being prevented from developing democratic politics on the streets? I mean, even in a country without the government and the Prime Minister, that's the way and the system that's being implemented right now. We express that we have never agreed to this, and we would like to say once again that we will fight all over Turkey for the development of democratic politics. So, once again, I would like to say that we do not accept these practices during a period in which there is no right to live, when women are subjected to harassment and rape, and the private employment offices and the labor community are again enslaved. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0035par0205	Sir, your request has been filed. Thank you. Mr. Engin Altay, Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0036par0208	I have no demands, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0035par0209	You have no demands. As a final statement, Mr. Coshkun Cakir, deputy president of the group. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0037par0213	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as the EC PARTY, we've completed and completed our 2nd Extraordinary Grand Congress in democratic maturity. And again, as a party, we continue our 14-year-old holy march with confidence, and we continue. By the votes of our esteemed delegates, we wish them success and hope that God will help them on this holy march, as well as Mr. Bululi Yıldırım, who was elected Prime Minister of the Sixty-fiveth Government, and to our new Council of Ministers, and to the esteemed members of our relevant committees who have changed their duties in our congress. On this occasion, we would like to thank Mr Ahmet Davutoglu, the Prime Minister of our 64th government and our 64th government and the Council of Ministers. In this holy march, no matter what its duties, authorities, positions, every member of the AK PARTI family put not only their hands under the stone but its entire being, its presence, its body. I wish our 65th government to bring blessings for our nation, our country, our region, and all the oppressed geography, and I offer my regards. Dear President, the esteemed MPs, who followed the CHP group meeting today, were among the speakers of CHP President Kemal Kilicdaroglu's speech, who repeatedly insulted those who voted for Mr. President Erdoğan and the EC PARTI. Mr. Kilicdaroglu's words were often interrupted by the slogans of insult by the People's Party (CHP) and Mr. Kilicdaroğlu continued to speak after an insult session and the People's Republican Party (CHP) again repeated a saying -- I will not repeat this slogan here -- he says: "I am passing by Tayyyyı" can't stop us. In the form, I will live to take it in my mouth, I will...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0038par0218	I'll add one minute, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0037par0219	...a slogan has been made, and all public opinion has heard of it. As this collective swearing session was repeated over and over again during the talk, we noticed that Mr. Kilicdaroglu did not give the CHP the slightest warning and often paused so that such insults could be made freely during his speech. We just call the CHP and the CHP people "Edep!" and condemn this ugliness. In addition, we've made necessary notifications to the Speaker of Parliament, and we'd like to report that we're legally going to make our legal initiatives. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0038par0221	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0039par0222	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0038par0223	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0039par0225	Mr. President, we're in Parliament, we're in politics. It's a common tendency for us, personally, and for our party that politics should be done in a manner of politeness. However, the deputy leader of the group has forgotten that democracy is a reaction and a protest regime, and he refuses to accept it.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0040par0226	It's insulting...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0039par0227	We don't approve of insult, no matter where it is. I wish I didn't have one, but, Mr. President, it was about booing a mother who lost her 13-year-old child. (CHEERING) I'm afraid that can happen from time to time. I mean, it's not like it's just happening here and you don't have it. You have hundreds of examples of this, Mr. President speaking, and it is possible to count and rank as the prime ministers speak. You'll see what political party leaders say. Otherwise, the citizen will get excited, he'll suffer, he'll show any kind of reflex. I declare that there is no swearing against anyone at our group meeting today. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0041par0229	Thank you, sir. Of course, lawmakers, those who attend group meetings sometimes cheer, and some of those cheers are hurtful, sad, rude.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0039par0231	It's mutual, Mr. President, not one-sided.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0041par0232	There's a need to pay attention to political courtesy here. I'm looking into what you're talking about, and I'll see what I can do. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0042par0234	Are you threatening me, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0041par0235	Let's move on to the agenda. Congressmans, the president's office has three papers, I'll have them read separately and present them to your knowledge. Number: 68244839-150. 01-1-347 22/05/2016 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The resignation of the Council of Ministers has been accepted under Article 104 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. Until the new government is formed, I'd like to inform you that the Council of Ministers has been asked to continue in office. Number: 68244839-150. 01-2-348 22/05/2016 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: dated 22/05/2016 and 68244839-150. Our number 01-1-347. In accordance with Article 109 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, İzmir MP and Justice and Development Party Chairman Mr. Bakili Yıldırım have been appointed to restore the Council of Ministers. I'd like to inform you that the list of the Council of Ministers will also be sent after the appointment of the elected ministers. Number: 68244839-150. 01-3-351 24/05/2016 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: dated 22/05/2016 and 68244839-150. Article 01-2-348. On the recommendation of Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım; 1) The ministries of the New Council of Ministers have been appointed to those listed on the additive list under Article 109 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. 2) The appointment of five ministers to serve under Article 4 of Law No. 3046, dated 27/9/1984 and under the title of Vice Prime Minister. For your information. 1) İzmir MP Bazili Yıldırım Prime Minister 2) Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli Deputy Prime Minister 3) Gaziantep MP Mehmet Simsek Deputy Prime Minister 4) Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivor 5) Ankara MP Yıldırım Tuğrul Türküş Deputy Prime Minister 6) Heromarash MP Veysi Source Deputy Prime Minister 7) Yozgat MP Bekir Bozdağ Minister of Justice 8) İstanbul MP Fatma Betül Sayan Kaya Minister of Family and Social Policy 9) Adana MP Ömer Çelik Minister of the European Union 10) Minister of Düzce MP Faruk Özlü Science, Industry and Technology 11) Republican MP Süleyman Noble Minister of Labor and Social Security 12) Kayseri MP Mehmet Özhaseki Minister of Environment and Urbanism 13) Antalya MP Mevlüt Sargeglu Foreign Minister 14) Denizli MP Nihat Zeybekci Minister of Economy 15) İstanbul MP Berat Bayrak Minister of Energy and Natural Resources 16) Samsun MP Akif Çağatay Minister of Youth and Sports 17) Şanlıurfa MP Faruk Çelik Foods, Minister of Agriculture and Petting 18) Malatya MP Bkent Tüfenkci Customs and Trade Minister 19) Bursa MP Efkan Ala Minister of Interior 20) Mersin MP Lütfi Elton Minister of Development 21) Eskişehir MP Nabi Avcı Minister of Culture and Tourism 22) Bayburt MP Naci Ağbal Minister of Finance 23) Sivas MP İsmet Yilmaz Minister of Education 24) Kiseli MP Fikri İkl İklı National Minister of Defence 25) Afyonkarahisar MP Veysel Eroğlu Minister of Forest and Water Affairs 26) Erzurum MP Recep Akdağ Minister of Health 27) Kars MP Ahmet Arslan Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications Thank you. It has been presented to your knowledge. Members of parliament, under Articles 123 of the Constitution and Civil Code of the Constitution, the government's programme must be read in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at the latest within a week of the establishment of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Government, do you have a date in mind to present the government programme to the General Assembly before May 31, 2016, sir?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0043par0295	Mr. President, we're thinking of reading today.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0041par0296	It's supposed to be read today. Thank you, sir. The government has said they want to present its government programme to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey today. In this regard, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal. Once the proposal is completed, it will be carried out. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Due to the failure of our country's incentive systems, we respectfully request and demand the establishment of a parliamentary research commission under Article 104 to 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution to implement new incentive models that could actually be a factor in our country's development. 21/12/2015 1) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Sakarya]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 7) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 11) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] 13) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Samsun]] 20) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] 21) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] Incentive systems must contain physical resources, manpower and incentives that can enable effective, efficient use of technology. After that, his success depends on well - known and accurate priorities. In the last eight years in Turkey (2004, 2006, 2009) three separate incentives have been implemented, and since 2012, the fourth incentive package is still in effect. Although regional differences have been targeted, both our entrepreneurs and our country's economy continue to suffer because of the failed results that have yet to reach its goal. In the last 33 years, the large majority of incentives have taken advantage of the Marmara region, then the Mediterranean, then the Black Sea and other regions, but the goal has not been unique. It's too optimistic to expect a single package of incentives to repair the distortions in the distribution of economic opportunities in our country. Turkey's level of socioeconomic development is to split into six different regions, and to be very, very low-developed areas, and to be encouraged to be very, very low-intuitive, at first glance, has the prospect of reducing regional inequality with the new system, but it has to be more important than financial incentives in resolving regional inequality. In this regard, it is critical that the level of education and health care in less developed areas of Turkey should be raised to a level in the developed areas. In addition, the lack of physical infrastructure in the backward areas is another priority. There are separate complaints from the current incentive system in each region. In between regions, even in the region's border districts (Izmir-Manisa), inequality and discrimination continue. On the other hand, the export of our country's high-tech product is still 3.5 per cent. It will have a huge impact on our country's development, and it must be raised to higher levels as soon as possible. Due to the failure of our country's incentive systems, we respectfully request and demand the establishment of a parliamentary research commission under Article 104 to 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Interior Charter for the implementation of new incentives that could actually be a factor in our country's development. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Soma, with respect to the establishment of the Parliamental Research Commission under Articles 104 to 105 of the Constitution and ÜBMM Institution to investigate measures that should be taken with the aim of identifying economic and social problems in areas where the mining sector, like Ermenek, is almost the only source of livelihood. 21/12/2015 1) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Sakarya]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 7) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 11) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] 13) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Samsun]] 20) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] 21) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] Theoretically, cities are residential areas where most of their residents are engaged in work outside agricultural activities. In this context, the city is a residential area where more people are starting to live, with non-foreign activities such as trade, industry, transport, mining. According to economic functions today, urban types are classified as agriculture, industry, trade and port cities. One of these classifications is mining cities. At this point, mineral riches emerge as an important factor that prepares the construction of cities. The population of the settlements where various mines have been removed or processed is increasing in the historical process, and there is also a change in the social life of its residents, depending on mining activities. However, as mining activities begin to decline, the rising of these cities in a socioeconomic sense has taken its place in decline. The recent mining disasters, such as Soma, Ermenek, also show that not only the cities where the mines are affected by decline or development, but the settlements around the mines also suffer from that. The unemployment rate in our country has been high for the past 12 years -- August 2015, 10.1 per cent -- is increasing in rural areas. As a result of failed agricultural policies, our citizens are looking for a job to earn money from the product they grow, to provide for themselves outside their agriculture during certain periods of the year. This situation, created by the shortage of livelihoods in the mines' settlements, forces residents to take any kind of negligence as a gain. In the end, the desperation of the socioeconomic situation with income is ignored in the mines, including business safety and health, autonomy rights, unionisation, as well as the lack of supervision is open to accidents. Soma, it is our Parliament's great task to investigate measures that must be taken with the aim of identifying economic and social problems in areas where the mining sector, such as Ermenek, is almost the only source of livelihood. In order for our Supreme Assembly to carry out this mission, the Commission for Parliamental Research must be established under Articles 104 to 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Civil Charter. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The debt figures of the private sector have been increasing over the years. In particular, foreign debt figures (June 15, 287.4 billion dollars) have reached serious proportions. The financial risks of the private sector, which are currently at risk of wooing, also account for the risks of the institutions they are borrowing. If the private sector cannot pay its debts, the banking system must not be expected to remain strong and strong. Therefore, we respectfully request and demand the establishment of a parliamentary research commission under Article 104 to 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution to investigate the measures that should be taken for the purpose of identifying the problems causing the private sector's excessive debt. 21/12/2015 1) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Sakarya]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 7) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 11) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] 13) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Samsun]] 20) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] 21) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] One of the main sources of fragility in the Turkish economy is the high debt and debt in the private sector. According to Central Bank data, firms outside the financial sector in Turkey at the end of September 2015 have a net currency position of $175.3 billion, foreign currency assets of 108.7 billion, and foreign currency debt of 284.1 billion. This private sector debt is only due to $28.3 billion in import debt, while the remaining 255.8 billion in debt is due to cash loan obligations. The private sector provided 82.1 billion dollars of this 284.1 billion debt directly from abroad. The firms' debt in foreign currency to domestic banks is 173.6 billion dollars. Today, in Turkey, it is known that the high rate of debt for non-export companies is also in foreign currency. This data shows that in Turkey, the private sector is at risk of foreign currency. The recent fluctuation of the exchange rate will leave the private sector in debt and unable to continue its debt service. The financial risks of the firms will not be expected to remain sound and strong in the event that the firms cannot pay their debts, given the risks of the institutions they are also borrowing. Therefore, we respectfully request and demand the establishment of a parliamentary research commission under Article 104 to 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution to investigate the measures that should be taken for the purpose of identifying the problems causing the private sector's excessive debt. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Point: 83924060-120. 0313707-2 20/5/2016 Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Under the World and Traditional Convention of Religious Leaders, on May 31, 2016, the Astana. Our Religion Against Terror Conference will be held in Kazakhstan's capital city of Astana. The conference represents the Turkish Parliament for the Grand National National Assembly of Nations MP and National Assembly of Education, Culture, Youth and Sports member Mustafa Isen (Isen) is presented to the adoption of the General Assembly under the 2nd and 9th Amendment of the Law on the Establishment of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 24/5/2016 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. The meeting of Parliamentary Research (10/151) of Turkey's Parliamentary Assembly's agenda, which is part of the "General Assembly's Review and Parliament's Research" section (determination of measures which should be taken under investigation of judicial issues in Turkey) was proposed in the joint session of the General Assembly's 24/5/2016 Tuesday (now). Sir, it is Mr. Ilhan Cihaner, who has requested to speak in his favor. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0044par0482	I salute everyone. First, I'm going to quote a letter from the people's courts: when they make a decision from now on, they will try to decide how they believe you will decide. This letter, which I quote, is a letter written to Adolf Hitler by Judge Roland Freisler during the Nazi German era, when the Nazi regime settled on the court. Right now, unfortunately, it's almost a perfect match to the practice of the criminal trial. Here, often, the problems of the judiciary in Turkey, the results of the legislation, the solution is being assessed and sought out within the scope of law enforcement activities, but most importantly, the perceptions of judicial culture and independence and neutrality. This, in fact, is more than the opposition, the government, which speaks most of all. For example, the Minister of Justice says that we do not look good in the polls on this issue. This is about trust in the judiciary. According to some universities, citizens who have confidence in the judicial system appear to be 48 per cent in 2014, according to OECD data. This number has declined by up to 30 percent these days. Gene, I want to say that in the past, the trust in the judiciary was 70 percent, and now it's down to 30 percent. Gene, we have Yasama, we have the administration, we have the judgment. Another is our daughter. They've actually told themselves how big a problem there is in the judiciary. Gene, the President of the United States has recently ruled that the biggest damage to the government is a number of groups who want to take the judiciary into their own hands. He has shown that whatever groups he means in the judiciary are a very serious problem. The state must be run like a company. If we tried to run this business with the uncle, we'd be burned. He said, "At least there's a problem with legislation." All of which, in fact, reveal how desperate we are in our judicial position. The independent research institutions, the progress reports of the European Union, reveal this in a much more detailed way. Furthermore, if we recall some of the arguments that the AKP had used to provide the transition to the judiciary, for example, it had proved that the judiciary could not be briefed in the face of any force while laying the fundamental stones of change in the judiciary, as it legitimised the referendum of September 12th 2010 by a number of members of the General Staff who went to the briefing in the past. But at this point, we're looking at a much worse situation. You know, a few days ago, the chief judges -- the Chief Justice, Court and Court -- attended a meeting with the President, which they claimed was to collect tea at Rize, and promote the culture of Rize. It is clear that this meeting, especially the debates on criminal justice, or some parties' congresses or some politicians, is one of the biggest issues of debate in front of direct justice independence and judicial neutrality. Other than that, at the moment, there is the issue of community staffing in the judiciary, which the government and the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors have encoded as the main issue of the judiciary. Of course, this congregational staffing can't be ignored, it should be called a struggle, but the struggle that has been followed so far has become more complicated than solving this problem. First of all, the criticism of the parliamentary judiciary was sort of about how these judges were formulated from an illegal point of view, but now we see that the same format was thrown out by political power. The problem there, however, is the mechanism of formatting; it is secondary to whom the format is thrown out. Someone else will come in tomorrow and throw the format, but there'll be no justice there. Of course, these problems need to be discussed thoroughly, presented by Parliament, and resolved in a healthy manner. That's exactly what we're proposing. Of course, there are not only problems with the high judiciary, the judge, the prosecutors, the judicial staff, and the judicial workers that have been unresolved for years. At first, an inequal and new model of staffing, which has been conducted, particularly under the name "responsibility" in appointment, transfers and promotions, has created an incredible discomfort in the judiciary. There are serious problems and arguments as to how the law courts will work, whether they will succeed, whether they will be born as a dead project at the beginning. So, we've made this motion to discuss all of this in Parliament and to bring forth their healthy solutions. Of course, I would like to make a call to the High Judiciary Chiefs' meeting in Rize, in order to show the point of harmony of forces rather than the separation of forces. The same presidents, I hope, along with Mr. President of the State Garden, attend the festival of the leaf wrap in Osmaniye, where they create awareness of the problems of the leaf wrap; along with Mr. Demirtaş, they participate in such activities as the problems of the Diyarbakır watermelon; how the song was sung in the mountains of Dersım with our President Kılıçdaroğlu, and how the fungus was collected in Tunceli. Otherwise, what they're doing will become the most concrete sign of a judgment that's not directly in harmony with the forces, but to the Führer, power, one man, and I want to repeat today's call for resignation at our president's group meeting: either they resign or they have to explain to the rest of the community what their gestures mean with an explanation of their neutrality, independence. Other than that, I'd like to make a call especially to our Republican prosecutors. See, in Turkey, confidence in the judiciary, confidence in the republic's prosecutors has been built up in that size -- perhaps the most in need of criticism within the world's judiciary -- an investigation launched in the United States, linked to the December 17th-25th investigation -- has almost made this prosecutor a hero in Turkey. This should be especially thought of by the republic's prosecutors by all parties who are in charge of the judiciary, realizing that this led to a catastrophe, a total collapse, and thinking that we should build a free, independent, seeking justice, leading to justice, a neutral judiciary. I hope most of all that the government, the government, the members of the government, is complaining about, the AKP people are voting positively for this motion to investigate the problems of the judiciary, and we can actually, in Parliament, come up with a real, real, compromised perspective that solves problems. Believe me, if we don't do this, you won't succeed in any of the topics you claim to be fighting. My respects, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0045par0495	Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak against the proposal. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0046par0498	I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Party's National Movement Party Group regarding the problems of the judicial system. I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly and its esteemed ready. Congressmans, when it's called problems in our judicial system, of course, first we have to talk about a system, but unfortunately, especially when the AKP governments were in power -- since 2002 -- a situation that we can often say is not possible. I mean, anything else can be said, but it's really hard to talk about the state of our judgment. Yes, we had serious problems in our judicial system, in our justice mechanism, before the AKP authorities. A certain part of our nation has always found it difficult to rely on the judiciary, but in no time, unfortunately, we have not encountered such an intense reality, such as the politicalisation of the judiciary and the lack of confidence in the judiciary due to the politicalisation table, the down to 14 per cent of the judicial trust index, and the fact that it has been expressed by the Justice ministers during the AKP administrations, unfortunately, with such intensity. In particular, when we looked at the painting after 2002 -- as I have just said -- the trial came at the top of our most controversial areas, and it was always considered: "We make a law, we go to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court cancels it. As a government with political responsibility, we're saving a government, we're drafting a regulation, it's being cancelled by the State of the United States. The job of the Constitutional Court is to determine and call off the Constitutional Court if there is a violation of the laws that have been passed. It is also the duty of the administrative judiciary, especially in the State's Office, to rule out a violation of the law when it comes to the regulatory process. I'm a public defender from the law profession, and I have to regret to say that the number of lawsuits that have been opened throughout the Republic's history until 2002, in order to ensure the settlement of citizens and administration, is the same as the number of cases filed between 2002 and 2009 during the AKP administrations. So, throughout the history of the republic, we have faced the same number of lawsuits filed by citizens against governance by 2002, the number of cases filed by personnel, and the number of cases filed by 2009 after the AKP came to power, and in this period, we have faced very serious irregularities. Of course, we didn't like it, and I just mentioned that when we passed the law, the Constitutional Court goes to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court cancels it; the State Court eliminates it. At a time when they were most concentrated, our nation faced a constitutional amendment referendum: September 12, 2010. Now, in the process of the Constitutional referendum of September 12, 2010, we took 26 of our Constitutional Court to our nation, and especially today, except for 2 of those 26 articles, I'm sure a significant majority of our lawmakers in peace are not able to remember much about what remains because the main reason for the referendum on September 12, 2010 was to return from the Constitutional Court, because they were in a situation where they were returning from the Council, to restore the structure of the Constitutional Court; two, I'm sure, to regulate the structure of HSYK, and thus to control the structure of HSYK. With great agitations, emotional exploitations, and great promises of the time, we bring to our attention the sons of Kurumahmutoglu's mother, who was brought to the squares of Samsun, his brother, who was born in space, with promises and with the 12 September 1980 revolutions, read the letters of our deceased son Pehlivan, who had been read again at the point of dissolving the Constitution of the 12 September 1980 conflict. Thus, at the end of a general abuse process, that constitutional amendment was carried out. Shortly after the constitutional amendment was carried out, the initial creation of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors in its original position -- sadly expressed -- was met with the fact that it was being hunted on its way to hunt, and the effort to restore the order of this corrupt judiciary quickly came to a point in the administrative plan where it needed to be restored to the point where it needed to be put again. The proposed amendment to the HSYK, which had just changed about this in the 24th term, was presented by the AKP Group, and by the time we reached December 17-25, it was observed that it had now reached a point like a boomerang, and that it had now become inextricable, as a result of a state crisis. Look, these days, we see the Trust in the Judiciary Index falling to 14 percent. In our country, when the prime minister was hanged, in 1960, he didn't fall below 50 percent. But at a time like this, if a citizen on the street trusts everywhere, unfortunately, he can't rely on the judiciary, and so we've been working on it for maybe another 20 years, and we, the National Movement Party, have been holding a position in this process, continuing our responsible political understanding. But the bitter painting is in front of all of us, unfortunately. And in this fundamental perspective within our judicial system, we are facing serious problems until we get from this fundamental perspective, from the staff order, to the judicial authorities, to the prisons, prisons, detention houses, to the workplaces where the judicial activity is being carried out, as a result of these actions. Thus, the investigation of these problems is correct in this regard, as a result of the release of the research motion to determine the issues to be made to prevent these problems. But we can't pass without saying that the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate applies to the European Union's law of harmony. So the politicalisation of the judiciary in Turkey, if there are problems in the judicial system in general, wouldn't that be the issue of the research motion if it wasn't in the European Union reports? Won't the Grand National Assembly of Turkey do anything about these problems, the sole purpose of this saintly nation's will? So, while I do not find this approach of the Republican People's Party to be true in this respect, I salute the High Council once again, saying that we will use this vote in this direction, as a result of the fact that this is really what our nation needs, that our nation really has the right, but that the painting we face is one of our most important problems, one of our most important problems.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0047par0505	In favour of the proposal, Mr. Flitz Kerestecioğlu. Yes, ma'am.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0048par0508	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the judiciary is a very deep and detailed subject that needs to be discussed, especially when we're in the middle of it. We will talk about the independent and neutral judiciary in a country where lawmakers are not yet aware of the content of the proceedings against them, why they are being judged, and why they do not have that information, and also in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which should be one of its guarantors. Divine justice, I'm afraid, gives you this assignment. Today, we are experiencing a period where no journalist is secure, no one who says what he thinks is actually not secure. We will discuss an independent and neutral judiciary in a country where people have been tried for defaming the President -- almost 2,000 -- despite constantly insulting everyone who is trying to gather legislation, executive and judiciary in one hand, in which he himself has denied the decision of the Constitutional Court for journalists who have served as journalists, and many of them are constantly in prison, in a country where there is a president who has used his authority against the Constitution. It's really hard to talk about. As a person living in 1980s, 1990s, and today, I would like to point out that the judiciary may have never been fully neutral and independent; yes, it is true, but there has not been another period in Turkey where judges and citizens feel as uneasy and insecure as they do today, that they have no confidence in the judiciary. Now, as expressed in the research motion, the European Union has expressed its criticism of Turkey's Progress Report, as well as its concern that the Council of Europe should be tried for the testimony of lawmakers in particular, recently and the representatives have become unable to express themselves without fear of trial. He says, judicial decisions in Turkey are not in harmony with freedom of expression and we invite Turkey, who is willing to abide by the standards of the Council of Europe for freedom of expression. I was not really a very interested person during my thirty years of judicial activity. I know we have to comply with the international contracts that we signed, because they are under internal law according to the Constitution of 90, and I've tried to comply with them, to draft appropriate petitions, but what really matters is what we live in this country and what we put our citizens through, not just European standards. I don't think Mr. Ilhan Cihaner has already submitted this motion, and he is one of the people in Turkey who struggles to have these standards, but indeed, a fair and independent judiciary is a need for all of us, and unfortunately, in a country where access to justice is so difficult, it is not possible to talk about democracy. It can only be called a coup regime, a dictatorship. The martial law courts, state security courts, private courts, all of the historical proceedings that have come with these are being carried out in court of justice today, so that a court of justice can again assess the objection to the verdict of the same court of justice, twice, the same court of justice. I mean, we're going through a period where control is completely out of control. The European Convention on Human Rights speaks primarily of the need for an independent and impartial judiciary for a fair trial. Today, we are sadly facing trials taken from their seats, from years of joy, and from years of prosecution, from judges, prosecutors, who will make the decisions that the government wants. The more political cases there are in one country, the more important MPs, the more democracy that country actually lacks. Because normally, in a country, for example, if you need forgiveness, the state does not actually have the right to forgive what a citizen does to a citizen, the state actually has to be able to bring a political pardon. However, in Turkey, the ongoing political cases, those 141, 142 -- which I have been judged at the time -- and such are the articles related to freedom of expression, the continuity of them, and the non-independent courts for expressing people's thoughts. Finally, the amnesty comes to criminals, rapists, extortionists, never to politicians, even though the state has no right. And today, yes, this country is a field of political lawsuits. The more political cases like Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, KCK, the more impossible it is to talk about fair and independent judgment. Today, thousands of Kurdish politicians, such as President of the Democratic Society, Kamuran Yüksek, are still on trial for their politics alone. And by removing the immunity, you will also prosecute lawmakers for this fair and unbiased trial. Go ahead, judge. By building huge buildings and saying that the largest in the world is the largest in Europe. Sadly, justice is not possible. You really need to grow justice, not those mall-like buildings where people are alienating each other. Courthouses are still where our citizens are afraid to go even as witnesses. Access to justice is also very difficult for citizens. People don't go to the courthouses, believing that they can get justice easily, that they can defend their rights there. It's not a system like this. Our citizens, the people on trial, or the people seeking their rights. In fact, that audit can only be handled by citizens. But today, these citizens are 30 percent and they're counting on the judiciary at lower rates. And in a place where that trust resets, really, in fact, after a while, we can also witness that citizens begin to solve their own problems, which is the most dangerous thing for a country. Yes, that's enough for us. If you say so, this level of justice is enough for us. Our Ministry too is pleased. If you say so, we can't know, but it's never been enough for us, and it's never gonna be enough for us. That's not our level of right and justice. While we were defending human rights in the 1990s, there were even police officers who could say, "Fuck human rights." It's funny, it's tragic, but I've been through it, and they can really yell, "God damn human rights." Now, if we don't want to go back to the same thing today, we have to have a truly independent and impartial judgment. In this sense, I would like to say a few words to the judges, especially to judges and prosecutors, who I am part of as a defense: If you really want to conduct a fair trial, at least follow these laws and international contracts under the law of civil law, and I only call on the president to serve. Do not pursue the word of the president, follow the word of justice, because indeed the powers change, but all of you need to be judged fairly, and so do all of you. Powers change, human dignity doesn't change. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0049par0523	Thank you. Against the proposal, Nevşehir MP Murat Gökturk. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0050par0527	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the motion of the Republican People's Party Group to open a parliamentary investigation into our country's judicial system in every way. As I begin my words, I salute you with the utmost respect. Again, as I begin my words, I wish the government of the 65th Republic of Turkey, which was established today, to bring blessings to our nation, to our country, to God, the Lord. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, I've been a lawyer for about 20 years, and I've been in the legal community since 1991. It is not right to claim that the judiciary was completely independent and neutral in our time, but it is important to ensure the independence and neutrality of the judiciary. Now, I would like to present my findings here. During my time as a lawyer, court buildings in many parts of Turkey were in a position not to be really fit for the trial of the judiciary. We, in the first place, have done serious work to make this judicial activity worthy of the state and the state of the judiciary, and we have worked to improve the environment of hundreds of courthouse buildings and employees, lawyers, judges, prosecutors. In addition, as part of the physical infrastructure, we have managed the UYAP system, called the National Judicial Judicial Network Project, which guarantees the transparency and neutrality of the judiciary. By taking advantage of this technology today, it has become possible to prosecute, monitor, and investigate electronically with this system. Again, the need -- which is always said at every stage -- the judge, the prosecutor's deficit -- was really to meet the country's needs, melt the number of files, eliminate the number of files, reduce the stacking, significantly reduce the purchases of judges, by making these waiting, stacking up, time passing. When we look at the average trial period in the administrative judiciary and the judicial judiciary before us, it will have also shown how important it is and how far it has come. Also through reforms at the EC PARTY -- such as martial law courts, special-qualified courts -- there have been serious regulations in favour of freedoms and democracy, such as the 141 and 142th -- which have blocked freedom of expression in the Turkish Penal Code. As we speak here, our friends have said: "Here are the many political cases and political pressures that have been created on politicians, where representatives have become unable to express themselves independently, etc. Now, it's not the same as supporting terror and terrorism and politics. It's different to support a terrorist, to support those who do something against the indivisible integrity of this country, to stand behind them and to do politics. Politics is made for the future of this country, for its good and for its interests, or political politicians, for those who want to divide this country, for those who have blood on the streets of this country, for those who want to take Turkey back to dark times, and for their supporters. Thus, the laws of this country will never allow it, and those who act in the form of terrorist supporters, in the form of those who support terrorism, no matter who they are, will suffer the consequences. Turkey has a legal system, and ultimately the system does and does what it has to do with itself. Dear friends, once again, with the provision of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors to ensure the neutrality and independence of the judiciary, it has been sincerely sought to ensure the neutrality and independence of judges through the referendum we held on September 12, 2010. But over time, there have been glitches in this system, and it's been debatable. But, anyway, the Great National Assembly of Turkey is really the place to solve the problems the country has faced. Here, we need to discuss all our issues here. If there's a flaw in this, if there's a difference in this, we can solve it by making it legal. We need to work hard here and create a lot of work. Dear friends, one of our fellow speakers also said that the number of lawsuits filed in the history of the republic in terms of the administrative judiciary is the same as the number of cases filed during our time in the AK PARTI period. Yes, I know from work, and now I want to say, and I want to say, really, since there are lawsuits filed by citizens against the actions and procedures of the administrative judiciary, and all the actions done in the Republic's history, regardless of what they do in pencils, there's no way to understand the excess of these cases, since the actions of the EC PARTI are equivalent to all of them. So you need publicization, you make roads; in the history of the republic, for example, you've made 6,000km double roads in total, but if you make a double route in the time of the AK PARTI, you're going to have an increase in publicization cases as well. If you build service buildings in the same way, if you build hospitals in the same way, if you engage in business with the citizen in this way, you will eventually encounter a surplus in the matter of the case. This is not a sign of chaos in the country, but more work, more work being done, more service being served; this is an inevitable end. It is not possible for everyone to be 100% satisfied with the judiciary -- as much as I've seen from my experience as a lawyer -- but the purpose of the judiciary is to do it fairly, objectively, independently, to make decisions about people in accordance with the law and the Constitution. Now, here, at the time of the EC PARTY -- all of the actions at our party -- are to ensure that the country is freer, that people live in a more democratic environment, and that in the same way, it is possible for judicial members to carry out an impartial and independent trial. It's obvious what we're doing about it and what we're doing about it. In addition, I would like to put an end to my words by reminding you of our recent efforts to improve the financial situation of judicial members in the 24th term. Indeed, our judges and prosecutors needed a serious economic recovery. Our government has listened to this, and we've done important work on it, we've done it together, and by making the necessary improvements as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we've shown a slight lack of... Of course, nothing's perfect, but at least you have to make an effort to heal and make it right. And I think we've made an effort to do it, and I think we've all done it together. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute your high council and our holy nation, that the AK PARTI (AK PARTI) has worked sincerely to this day at the point of their recovery, and will continue to work with the same zeal and determination.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0051par0541	Thank you, Mr. Gökturk. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 24/5/2016 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Vice President The reading of the 65th Council of Ministers Programme on Tuesday (May 24, 2016) in the jointment of Tuesday (May 24, 2016), the reading of the Council of Ministers Programme on Tuesday (May 24, 2016) and the meeting of the Council of Ministers Programme on Friday (May 27, 2016 and the meeting of confidence vote on the Council of Ministers on Sunday (May 29, 2016) are part of the agenda and other issues are not discussed except for the vote of the President's General Assembly Presentations and the vote of the signees. Friday, May 27th, 2016, 15 o'clock. At 00 p.m., on Sunday, May 29, 2016, 11 p.m. A meeting at 00 p.m., talks on Friday (May 27th 2016) on behalf of government and political party groups are ten minutes of personal talks (which can be used by two speakers during this period), continuing to work on the programme until negotiations are completed in these combinations, On Wednesdays and Thursdays, May 25, 2016, It's recommended. There are demands of two people in favor of the proposal and against it. In the end, Mr. Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Amassian MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0052par0561	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. The 65th government, established as Prime Minister of İzmir MP Bazili Yıldırım, bless our country, our nation, and all the oppressed geography. In fact, our group proposal includes an arrangement for reading, negotiating, and carrying out confidence in the 65th Government Programme, which was established today. Today, hopefully, the government's programme will be read, the negotiations will be held on Friday, the vote of confidence will be held on Sunday, and the government will, of course, move on. Dear friends, the establishment of the 65th government in the Prime Ministership of Mr Bakili Yıldırım has also been followed by public opinion, and many discussions have been made. As you know, the AK PARTY, the ruling party, the political party that received half of our people's votes, held a congress on May 22nd. In this congress, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu quit his post, Mr. Bakilli Yıldırım took over with the votes of the congressional delegates; the establishment of the 65th government and the escort of our group proposal today emerged. While this process is taking place in both parliament and elsewhere, one person, who misses the truth of the work, the political and social reality, commands a little bit of a pejorative language, and you do it. We all know that our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the one who is referred to here as one. Mr. Erdogan is the founding president of the EC PARTY, and for 14 years, he has brought the EC PARTY to power in all the elections until he became President in 2014, along with the presidential election. I'm saying that we shouldn't miss this while some unjust and unjust assessments are being made, to say that Mr. Erdogan has always taken whatever job he's taken, through legitimate channels and not miss out on the nation coming in with his votes. Mr. Erdogan is a charismatic figure. There are many different theories in political science about how charismatic figures emerge. On one side, of course, there are virtues, qualities, language, style, a way of bonding with society. An Recep Erdogan who goes to the slums and plays spoons on the same beans with those people...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0053par0566	Don't say that, Mr. President, it'll be misunderstood.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0052par0567	...a Recep Tayyip Erdogan sitting with cabbies, reaching out his hand to the oppressed and the orphans, raising his voice as their representative, that's what he gets for the public.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0053par0568	Recep Erdogan didn't steal a spoon, don't slander him!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0052par0569	Of course, no matter what the friends say, in the end, people make the decision about all of this. Let's not forget that there are people on the other side of charismatic figures. The people who brought those charismatic figures out there, made them leaders, brought them into that chair to represent them and lead the community. They describe ideology as: "The representation of imaginary relations with material circumstances." At the same time, the ears of societies are set on words, language, style, approach, style. When society sees that style, that style, that language, that way of touching it, that's when it raises the charismatic figure. Because Recep Erdogan is the voice that society is waiting for, society listens to his speech, there's my leader. This is the man who will develop, improve this country, respond to my expectations. He became Prime Minister for many years, then President for many years. While Mr. Erdogan was doing all these tasks and carrying out his presidency today, of course in fantasy, thinking, "What do I want?," he did not account for my personal desires? If he had acted like that, those who acted like this would not have responded to the public, nor would Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Erdogan has always succeeded in his speech, his thinking, his approach, because he represents the masses he's connected with his political style, yesterday, and tomorrow he will continue to succeed in the same way. Yeah, AK PARTY is a leadership party. This is Mr. Erdogan who gave his character to the AK PARTI, who connected with the community in this way. After he became president, he was no doubt cut off from the Constitution and the law, but it's not as formal as it's written in books, friends. It's a 40-year-old bane, so it's not happening. For many years in politics, he communicated with society through a certain style, a certain language, a certain symbol -- his charisma in this way, someone that society put in that context -- yes, it's done in public, but it's wrong to expect him to move to a different place, it's wrong, it's wrong. Of course, Mr. President, as a neutral president, he's in his position today...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0054par0573	Really?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0052par0574	...but it is quite common for the AK PARTY to appeal to its ideas, as well as its spiritual connection, and the AK PARTY to whatever it is that it is that it is going to do. And in this convention we have had, of course, a problem with the system, we have had to have a convention like this because of a practical, actual situation. But the point is, people come and go, names come and go, everyone comes and goes. No matter where they were involved in this case, they always saw themselves as the basis of a higher and higher cause, as its carriers, as porters. So when someone was waiting for a personal ambition, a personal desire, a personal completeness, because of a variety of problems in political processes, while they were waiting for someone to do so, the people who put their case on everything didn't, in any way, give them the benefit of the doubt. Because the AK PARTY has taken on a very historic role for the common destiny and future of this nation, which will continue to carry out this role. May this case be brought to its destination, as an arrow, by this entire staff, who transcends their own personality, their own desires, their desires, our own desires as human beings, and considers themselves the man of the cause. So it's important that individuals contribute to this movement, this march of service to the nation, but it's the march itself, not the people. The AK PARTY held its congress with such understanding, won 14 years of victories with such understanding, and as long as it acts with such understanding, it will surely continue to win new victories with the nation, along with the nation, on the path of representing the nation's consent. As we try to understand Mr. Erdogan, let's not forget, it must be the nation we're trying to understand, the will of the nation... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... And it must be his desire to try to understand the people who voted for him 50 percent while trying to understand the AK PARTY. A pejorative language is self-destructive, because it gets away from understanding people. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0055par0581	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0056par0582	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0055par0583	Against you, Kars MP...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0056par0584	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0055par0585	Sorry.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0056par0586	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0055par0587	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0056par0588	In his speech, he described the president as playing the lover. This may be perceived as an obvious slander, and I ask it to clarify its words, sir!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0057par0589	He said it in a pejorative way!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0055par0590	Yeah, it's theirs.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0058par0591	Mr. President, this is extremely cunning reasoning; I condemn and condemn!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0055par0593	Sir, against the proposal, Mr. Ayhan Bilgen of Kars. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0059par0596	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, of course, when I listened to the speech on behalf of the ruling party about the proposal, I doubted that the proposal was something else, because Mr. Bululi Yıldırım is forming a government, he's been appointed, and I think we need to discuss the agenda of this government programme a little later. It'll be voted, it'll probably pass, but a speech on what kind of leader Mr. President is, in fact, reveals everything. But I'm not going to take too long on charisma. Yes, it does bring charisma, but there are serious risks in politics, and charismatic leadership is actually the type of political leadership that primitive societies prefer, because you call mystical metaphysical forces, charismatic leaders, they have the power, and it can save you, heroes can come out. Yes, indeed in history, charismatic leaders have also achieved great success in very difficult times for societies, but extremely dangerous, adventurous jobs are often done by charismatic leaders. In fact, the names that a member of parliament had just mentioned, and our co-captain was referring to the portraits in the hall where he was speaking, have also been highly charismatic political leaders in political history. But, I mean, beyond that assessment, I think we need to see something: we're not going through a normal period; no one, no leadership type, no discussion can convince us that the process we're in right now is normal, normal. As a result, a political party was elected on June 7th, after the election, the government could not be formed, and then again on November 1st, and this political party reached a vote to form a government on its own, met and established the government. Now, in this short period of time, with our political readings, which would require the government to resign within six months, is there a situation the world can see through the reading of the international public, so is there a geneor or any other common method that we know that requires resignation? No. Is there an argument within the ruling party? When you look at the day of the resignation, it's all going well, it's normal, but suddenly the government resigns and a new government is formed. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, for once, technically, I'm putting aside the unusualness of this process. At 10:00 a.m. in the morning, the list of the Council of Ministers was presented to the President, as of 11 p.m.; at the moment, three or four hours later, when was the government programme prepared? Can the government program be read, let alone written in the meantime? Well, did the ministers already know that they were going to be ministers, that they were going to form a government, so was there a situation long before today's procedure? Or if you work so fast, or if we write so quickly, it doesn't matter what we do. If you say so, look at what we do. If you say so, it's your choice. But it has a dimension that concerns us, so beyond the technical emergency here, we experience another extraordinaryness beyond discussing how to perceive and read a government program in the world in three or four hours, which is: politics in Turkey, unfortunately, is no longer a problem-solving mechanism, but its own legitimacy has become a controversial position. There have just been debates about the public perception of the judiciary. In the past, there have been polls about the reputation of institutions, the reputation of the institutions, and usually places such as the Armed Forces or the judiciary, such as bureaucracy, institutions have come out in a more prestigious position than politics, which, of course, was not a good view for the democracy of a country, not a beautiful picture of civility. Now politics, yes, is ahead of these institutions, above; this is a picture that will rejoice for the whole country, but I think this time we're being dragged into another contradiction, the political institution is beginning to debunk itself, starting to corrupt itself. I mean, it's not an untrustworthy position stemming from custody, from the pressures of other institutions, but we're dealing with a serious risk to his internal functioning, internal democracy, a serious crisis of trust. Yes, the way politics can be functional in solving a country's problems, the way politics can be efficient and efficient, is through the healthy functioning of its ordinary mechanisms. If politicians tried it with extraordinary methods, not through street, rallying, civilian democratic channels, as in Turkey's history, as in the history of Turkey, some of the times in political history, whether they tried it within the party or within the state institutions, as a party's attitude towards another party, as a result, serious controversy about politics in that country becomes inevitable, let alone solving problems, dignity, dignity, and dignity. Right now, the congressional process of a political party is being resolved by a judicial decision. Perhaps in the coming years, we will experience other wonders. Now, the removal of immunity is the fact that, despite the fact that the initiative was written in politics, in the Constitution, it was removed from the political institution, from Parliament, and handed over to the judiciary. Yes, if the judgment is truly independent, of course, there's nothing to worry about, there's nothing to worry about, there's nothing to worry about. We've already made suggestions, not temporarily, but in total, radical dissolution, but unfortunately, I think the extraordinaryness of the past term reminds us of other extraordinary times in Turkey's political life, Turkey's political history. Dear lawmakers, the coups in this country didn't just happen because the soldiers were involved in politics and so on and so forth. Politicians set the ground for the soldiers to liquidate each other, they invited the military. Today, the country is under pressure from one side over parliamentary will, with the threat of election, and on the other hand, the prospect of a coup is beginning to become more and more normalized and more routineized in society. Yes, each period of the coup had its own way, its methods; on February 28th it was different; on April 27th it was different; on September 12th, March 12, May 27th, all of this developed through different balances, different equations. But today, in a part of this country, lawmakers are no longer doing their usual, routine tasks. It would be unfair to assess, just as HDP MPs can't do it, and other parties can't... He probably saw it because the CHP had sent a delegation earlier, but the fact that the initiative in one part of Turkey has gone entirely to the security forces, after a while, it's not only a region, but perhaps a basis for other extraordinary events throughout the country. Of course, we think that the opening of the channels of politics, the strengthening of violence in the country, the ending of the conflict, the resolving of all the country's problems, has meaning, value. There are two trends, two common approaches in the world. One of them -- of course, political sociologists are more likely -- is that the more open the front of society is about democracy, the less likely the possibility of conflict, the less likely the violence. It's a regular democratic look. Security guards look at it both ways. Some ministers of the former Cold War security policy read: "This is the old point of view of violence, as many political actors as there is an extension of terrorism, as many magazines, as many associations, if there is a civil society, all of that, if we complete it, there will be trust and stability." But now there's a different paradigm in the world called human safety and social security. And those who approach this paradigm are actually closer to the democratic perspective, from the more civil policy-axis perspective, and they say, "If you neutralize politics, if you disable it, you will only increase chaos. Dear lawmakers, this geography has experienced very painful transitions in the Balkans in the very recent dates, in the 2000s -- let's not go too far back -- in the Caucasus, in the Balkans. Over the past three or four years, the Middle East has experienced a very painful process in Arab geography. If Turkey turns this extraordinary into a great pain, a great break, then the Parliament will have a historical responsibility because it condones this extraordinaryness. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0060par0608	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. In favor of the proposal, Mr. Yilmaz Bronze. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0061par0612	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the AK PARTY group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Our 65th government, our president, Mr. Bülli Yıldırım, was founded. I call upon the Lord God to be good luck, good service, good service for our country, good service for our nation. Of course, the EC PARTI group proposal is a group proposal that sets the working schedule of the Assembly on the process after the government was established, the reading of the government programme, the talks on the programme and the vote of confidence. We're going to hold talks on this group proposal today. The establishment of the Council of Ministers, the reading of the government's programme and the vote of confidence are organised on Articles 109 and 110 of our Constitution. Of course, according to these articles of our Constitution, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has also determined how this would be done. For the day when the Council of Ministers will be read, the Council of Ministers says a special agenda is offered to the General Assembly. Again, two full days after the reading of the programme, the 124th Amendment will open talks on the program. For the day set for the meeting, the Advisory Board says the General Assembly will propose a special agenda. The final joke of the 124th article of our Civil Code also states that a full day after the end of the negotiations, a vote of confidence is called for. In fact, the heart would have wished that we could have discussed the meeting, reading, and voting on the government program as predicted by our Civil Code, but we were unable to reach this agreement because of the Republican People's Party's group proposal.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0062par0616	No more compromises, no more compromises.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0061par0617	These issues will be fulfilled by the group proposal of the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0062par0618	They put a vote on our camp day!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0061par0619	In the traditions of our parliament, the debate of government programmes, the reading of the programme and the vote of confidence have always been discussed in the General Assembly by the Council of Counsellor's proposal, with the consensus of all political parties, but today we can't do it, we're doing it with the group proposal of the EC PARTY. According to the EC PARTI group proposal, the calendar is: The reading of the Council of Ministers programme will be held on Tuesday (May 24th). Friday, May 27th, 15 o'clock. The Council of Ministers will meet at 00, and talks will be held on the Council of Ministers programme. It's 11 o'clock on Sunday, May 29th. The council will meet at 00, and there will be a vote of confidence. In detail on the discussion of the programme, the group has been rescheduled in our proposal, where the talks are limited by how many minutes. In this way, the talks are envisioned on behalf of political party groups as 40 minutes, personal conversations in the form of ten minutes, with the group's recommendation. On May 25-26, Wednesdays and Thursdays, the failure of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is proposed by our group. With this feeling and thinking, I'm in favor of the AK PARTY group proposal. The 65th government is the 8th government of the AK PARTY. Five elections in a row approved the actions of our nation's AK PARTY. In 14 years, our country has made great progress in every field, truly, beyond imagination, and has made great progress and development. Our new government, Mr. Prime Minister, will, hopefully, be a great success in the presidency of Buli Yıldırım and will lead our country to far greater goals. With that faith, I salute the General Assembly with respect and love. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0063par0625	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. Mr. Aytug Horseman, MP of Mersin against the proposal. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0064par0629	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group against AKP's proposal on the parliamentary work programme. I salute all those who understand that the kingdom is a unconditional nation, who do not surrender to the sovereignty of one man. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, in the name of the people, the High Assembly will decide how the House works. But does the Grand National Assembly of Turkey really make decisions of free will? The perception in the public and in us, even the detection, no. Anything that comes out of a single person's lip is considered a law. Now, as we say these things, Mr. Group Vice President comes up to the stand, and he says, "We are not bound by one person, and we are not bound by one person." What are you doing? Sir, we're doing consultations. You don't understand this job. He says to CHP, "We decide everything by consultation." He says, and he's always trying to talk here in defence psychology. Now I ask you, dear friends, you have consulted and elected Mr. Davutoglu as President. What happened six months later when your consultation came up empty? Either you're having the wrong consultation or someone's lying here. So, question number two: did you decide to send Davutoglu; did you decide by consultation or by free will, dear friends? You have to ask yourself that. If free will were to prevail, the AKP MPs would not have had to use their votes openly here in front of the cameras during the constitutional amendment vote we held a few days ago. If free will were to prevail, remove the immunity of our ministers. You're removing our immunity, thank you, we have no fear, but come, remove the immunity of the ministers. You wouldn't say no to what we call the motion. You know you don't have free will. If there really was free will in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- and you're raising your hand to these decisions you're making -- you wouldn't be able to clear an AKP-led MP who attacked lawmakers on the stand again with AKP votes. If the Grand National Assembly of Turkey had truly made decisions of free will, they would have opposed the people sitting there when the President of Davutoglu, elected by the votes of the nation, was forced to resign.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0065par0640	There's no such coup, it's made up!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0064par0641	For God's sake, are you really acting on your own free will? Is this proposal really a product of consultation? Are you really going to raise your hands of free will? For God's sake, think about it. I just want you to think about it. If you really believe that, let me ask you this question: If you're actually voting freely, why didn't you raise your voice when you were preparing the appointed Prime Minister's Council at midnight with the so-called neutral president? Why didn't you say you couldn't mortgage our free will? The government is clearly the government of the palace, and you can even call it the Court of Humanity. An open Court of the Court is established, and you're still talking to me about free will. If you really came up with this proposal of free will, you'd have to ask the question: "Yahu, for God's sake, we've only held a convention on Sunday, how can this Prime Minister, who's been in office for 48 hours, do a new government program in 48 hours?" You've brought it, you've written it: reading the Government Programme by Prime Minister Bakili Yıldırım. When, for God's sake, did you take office, Mr. Prime Minister? You didn't eat, you didn't drink, when did you prepare an entire government program in 48 hours?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0066par0644	In our dreams, in our dreams!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0064par0645	How is it that these beautiful MPs are convinced? Yes, it's our free will, we're making this suggestion. Mr. Prime Minister has very special skills, not in 48 hours, but in 48 minutes, he'll have a government program. Well, if that's what you're saying, then you can really call yourself the free-willed MPs. In fact, you're aware that only one person has set this whole thing up.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0067par0647	Exactly.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0064par0648	You're aware that you're only here on a hand-to-hand mission. What happens if you vote for this work order, what happens if you don't accept it, what happens if you don't accept it; tomorrow comes another order, sir, the program has changed, so raise your hands again. They say, "I swear to God, you will raise your hand again."
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0067par0649	Exactly.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0064par0650	You continue to exonerate those who have taken the oath of honor and honor and have sworn to lift these hands. You, Mr. Speaker, should not be in the Constitution of secularism by failing to abide by your oath. If you're sitting in that high chair today, thanks to the secular republic, I'd consider it a duty to remind you again.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0068par0653	How many times are you going to say it?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0064par0654	The so-called statesmen who have not kept their promises have damaged the honor of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the country. Everyone will keep their vows, everyone will keep their word, if he wants to see himself as a statesman. If not, we will continue to disgrace the world because of you, as we do today. There was no presidential system, and you came up with the concept of a party president. While Turkey has turned into a pool of blood, Turkey has exceeded $3 in dollars, Turkey has reached its extreme poverty in Turkey, you are stalling Turkey as if Turkey's problem was a change of prime minister.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0069par0656	Mr. Horseman, tell me about what was said in the group today. Tell me about what was said in your group, Mr. Pitcher.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0064par0657	You have no right to do this. If you continue to do so, then question whether you are acting of free will.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0069par0658	Mr. Horseman, tell me about what was said in the group today.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0064par0659	At least say: "We are not acting freely, but it is one person's fault.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0069par0660	Mr. Pitcher, tell us about the band, the band.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0064par0661	But if we act freely, if you continue to say so and continue to play this theatre, you will continue to be part of this game.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0069par0662	Mr. Horseman, what happened in the band?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0064par0663	Dear friends, you're trying to bring in the party presidential system. That's what you're doing, you're trying to forgive.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0070par0664	That's right.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0064par0665	Why? For the reasons I just counted. You're trying to exonerate the president who clearly committed a crime, who clearly failed to keep his word of honor and honor. That's what you're doing, you're trying to forgive.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0071par0666	What happened in the band today, Mr. Pitcher?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0070par0667	We remain loyal, and we will continue to remain loyal.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0064par0668	Yes, someone from around here says we're trying to remain loyal.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0071par0669	Do you have anything to say about what happened in your group, Mr. Horseman?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0064par0670	Yes, continue to remain faithful. Remember: The person you must remain faithful to is not Recep Tayyip Erdogan, but our great nation, and you can only remain loyal to the nation.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0072par0671	The great people chose him.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0073par0672	What's happening to you? What's happening to you? So you're gonna decide who we stick to?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0074par0673	What happened in the band today? Tell me how those of you who joined your group blasphemed today.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0075par0674	While you're chasing presidential dreams, children are being raped in my country while you're trying to knock down governments and recruit new governments.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0074par0675	Tell me how he cursed her.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0075par0676	Are you worried about the children's rape, or who the prime minister is going to be?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0074par0677	Tell us about him, how he blasphemed. The whole of Turkey heard that at your group meeting.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0075par0678	In our country, prisons are filled with children while you're trying to support someone who's desperate for mayoral dreams. In our country, prisons are filled with children, filled with drugs. When the Panamanian documents are spread, there's a complete scandal, there's a total corruption, there's a lot of government-related people being accused, and you're leaving them there, trying to figure out who's going to be the Prime Minister, who's going to be the government. I can only say shame.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0076par0680	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0075par0681	In Syria, when people were killed in Zara, your voice was silent because it was an ethnic cleansing, but when someone else killed it, your voice spread throughout the world.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0077par0682	Are you going to apologize for the band?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0078par0683	Are you going to apologize for your speech in the group?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0075par0684	Be brave, and do not lose your senses, but oppose all slaughters.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0079par0686	We expect the same from you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0080par0687	The people elected the president, your leader came with tapes!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0081par0688	Mr. Speaker, are you going to apologize for the speech in the group?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0082par0689	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0083par0690	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0082par0691	Mr. Pitcher made a lot of taunting in his speech. For example, he claimed that the AK PARTY group did not act on its own free will. This is an open taunt. The accusation that a group representing the will of the nation did not act on its own free will is a clear taunt, and I demand a word according to 69.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0084par0693	This is a political criticism, not a taunt, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0085par0694	We decide how to use our will. For God's sake! Will the CHP decide who we love and how much we love?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0086par0695	Here you go, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let's not afford another tease. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0087par0701	Mr. Horseman argues free will, says: "Don't do so, if you do as I say, you will be free-willed. " To honor us, we must do as Mr. Horseman says, in order for us to be free-willed. Mr. Horseman, we're not going to do as you say, we're going to do as people say. Because we're doing as people say, this group is in charge here, in power, because it represents the nation. Every act, every decision, every move represents the nation, free will. When was the government program written? The power hasn't changed, the party hasn't changed, the AK PARTY is still in power, Mr. Shooter.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0088par0704	Did the people take the Prime Minister away, Mr. Bostanci?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0087par0705	After all, we're talking about a long walk, a walk that started in 2002; you're thinking about today. It's a 14-year march, and hopefully it'll be many years.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0089par0706	Mr. Bostanci, the people have asked you to relieve the Prime Minister. Did people give you a job? Mr. President ordered it, removed it.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0090par0707	You guys take care of your own group.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0091par0708	You swear at a group meeting, you have no right to speak.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0092par0709	Third, it's pointless to speculate on Mr. Davutoglu. Mr. Davutoglu is the crown of our heads, Mr. Buli Yıldırım is the crown of our heads, Mr. Erdoğan is the crown of the nation with us. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Mr. Davutoglu has been a traveling companion of Mr. Erdogan as minister since 2007. Don't miss them, don't forget them. For us, traveling friendship is more important and precious than any provocation, any pollen, any personal desire. It's a nation, it's a nation, it's a nation, it's a nation, and the rest is a process. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0093par0714	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0094par0715	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0093par0716	The preacher teased me about me speculating and missing a lot of things. I want a promise.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0095par0717	It's not a tease, it's a criticism.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0094par0718	Well, he has his own opinion, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0093par0719	Sir, you promised when I gave you my opinion.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0095par0720	It's a criticism, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0093par0721	His opinion doesn't require teasing me, sir, I'm not speculating.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0096par0722	You're just picking on me, it's a criticism here.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0097par0723	No, it's speculation... it's a matter of appreciation, it's his own discretion, it's his statement.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0093par0724	No, sir, it's an obvious taunt to say I'm speculating.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0097par0725	I'll take a look at the report, see what I can do.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0093par0726	Sir, you heard it clearly.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0097par0727	Sir, I'll appreciate the obvious.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0093par0728	Please remain neutral.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0097par0729	I'll take a look at the report, and I'll appreciate it before the session is over, sir. Please come in.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0093par0731	Mr. President, please remain neutral. You heard it loud and clear.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0098par0732	Your name is not mentioned, your name is not!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0093par0733	If you're afraid of what I'm going to say, let me sit down, or let me talk.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0099par0735	How can we be afraid of you!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0100par0736	What fear!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0099par0737	How can we be afraid of you? Weren't you the one who escaped from the General Assembly the other day?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0101par0738	We're not afraid of the idea. However, as president, I have the right to look at the transcripts, if there's any bullying, before the session I promise is over. Please come in.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0102par0740	Okay.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0101par0743	Mr. Horseman, I would also like to point out that I can't express any opinions in the negotiations, that the Charter commands this, but you have made a statement to me personally, so I must speak for him. The idea, the conscience, the freedom of thought, is a natural-born right. In the democratic state of law, everyone has the freedom to express their opinion, opinion, and opinion. I'm a man who knows the Constitutional Law very well, and I've worked on it. I also know what is and is not contrary to the Constitution. I've said it in my earlier explanations. ▪ Laikism is a concept. Every concept needs a description. If the Constitution is to enter, there must be a recipe for this concept.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0102par0745	There's no need. You said there's no need.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0101par0746	Not everyone should be interpreted differently.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0102par0747	There's no need. You said there's no need.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0101par0748	▪ Is this a freedom? Is that an obstacle? This must be made clear. I said.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0102par0749	It shouldn't be included. You said.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0101par0750	And that's true, and that's true.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0102par0751	Tell the truth. It shouldn't be included. You said.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0101par0752	I'll tell you another thing: I don't want to put too much into this. Of course, it's my right, and of course, I've taken advantage of it.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0102par0753	Tell the truth, Mr. President. It shouldn't be included. You said. Don't deflect, please.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0101par0754	I remember a poem by Arif Nihat Asya Bey.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0103par0755	And don't read poetry.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0101par0756	The deceased said: "If we think quietly, one day they will hear. They will assume that they have happened. If they can, they will censor the dreams. "
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0104par0758	Yeah, it's just like you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0105par0759	Mr. President, you're describing yourself.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0101par0760	Please respect the thought, the idea, the conviction, and never put yourself in a court of law. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0106par0763	Tell the truth, Mr. President. You said he shouldn't take part. Now you're changing the subject.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0107par0764	Mr. President, you mentioned definitions. Democracy is not defined by the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0101par0765	What doesn't?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0107par0766	There are no definitions of human rights.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0101par0767	What doesn't?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0107par0768	Democracy is not defined by the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0108par0769	Mr. President, we have work to do. We're still going to read the government program. We have work to do, sir. Will these continue to argue?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0107par0770	You say: I said it because there is no definition of secularism.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0109par0771	Yes, sir, there is a definition of democracy. I'd like to add this to your data stream, Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0107par0772	Look, you're here to make false statements.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0109par0773	That's your opinion.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0107par0774	No constitution in the world is defined. Where are the definitions made? It's made in the law.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0109par0775	It's done, sir. It's done.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0107par0776	Show me an example, please.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0109par0777	Mr. Mahmut, a lot. I'm a person who studied 62 constitutions.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0107par0778	There are no 62 constitutions, 61 Constitutions...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0109par0779	Please, come in... Now, I'm going to tell you this...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0107par0781	Sir, there are no 62 constitutions.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0109par0782	I've studied 62 constitutions. Mr. Mahmut, I don't sound like you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0107par0784	Give me an example, then, an example.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0110par0785	There's no such procedure!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0107par0786	Give me an example, for God's sake.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0111par0787	I don't want to put this into conversation. I don't want to put this on the pole.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0107par0788	But, look, there's no precedent in the world, a constitution that makes definitions. There's no such example.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0111par0789	But for the sake of information, France is the home of secularism. In French legislation, secularism is described as being one, politics; two, philosophy; three, neutral in the face of religion. That's the recipe for homeland. Let's describe this correctly, let's not defy injuries, wrong exercises. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0112par0792	Then you don't know the provisions of the Constitution, you don't know the state of law...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0111par0796	I will now present the proposal to you: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Please read it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/368) I demand and demand that my proposal for amendments to Turkish Penal Code number 5237 be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37, under Article 37 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As the bidder, I'd like to invite Mr. Mahmut Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Mahmut.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0113par0808	Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0111par0809	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0114par0810	Mr. President, I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0111par0811	Just a minute, Mr. Mahmut.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0114par0812	In accordance with the Justice and Development Party's agreed group proposal, the government's programme's presentation, talks and voting date, calendar has been set on the parliamentary agenda. We requested a statement to the Court as soon as it was known, but the Laws, our friend, were told that two applications had been made and received. According to what, how were these applications received?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0115par0813	That's not gonna happen, guys. Now that it's confirmed, the application will begin as soon as it's approved. That's a hell of a lot of red tape you're doing.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0111par0814	Mr. Altay, let's examine this. I'd like to call Mr. Mahmut to the stand.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0116par0816	I'd like to request that the first applications be filed by us as well.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0111par0817	I'll look into it. I'll make a statement. I'm going to take the information from my friends and make a statement.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0117par0818	That's not gonna happen. It would be a shame if you were doing that to the legislature bureaucracy.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0111par0819	Mr. Tanal, come in, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0118par0820	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with respect and respect. In order to change Article 299 of the Turkish Penal Code, the proposal for the Turkish National Assembly was sent to the Justice Commission for 45 days, but since it was not on the agenda, we have brought it directly to the General Assembly. Dear friends, Article 299 of the Turkish Penal Code organises an insult to the President. In addition, if there is an insult to the president of parliament, the Prime Minister, the ministers, the MPs, the public officials, the citizens -- anyone, but anyone -- about their rights to their rights, about their dignity, about their individuality, if there is an insult and abuse against them, the Turkish Penal Code will be punished according to the 125th Article of the Penal Code. In the same way, the Turkish Penal Code says that the person who insults him according to the 125th article of the Penal Code, who plays with honor, personality, if he proves his claim, will not be punished under Article 129 of the Turkish Penal Code. When we compare Article 299 to Article 125 and 129, the person who is present in Article 129 will not be punished when he has proven his claim, but if the person who has attributed any action to the President according to the Turkish Penal Code 299 will be punished again. Is there, of course, an arrangement in the world? I do. What has been done about these arrangements so far? Spain has it, and Germany has it, and France has it. There are legal regulations in these countries for more legal protection than the head of state citizen, but there are cases in these countries. What's this about? For example, there is Colombani/Fransa decision in France, as well as Artun and Güvener decision in Turkey, Pakdemirli/Turkey decision; again, there is the Spanish Otegi Mondragon decision. In fact, these countries have been sentenced to compensation for bringing the heads of state, citizens, public officials, Speakers, ministers, prime ministers, lawmakers over protection, and when they are sentenced to compensation, they have made arrangements in their own legislation, they said: "We can't put the president in a more privileged position than the citizen." This is a violation of the principle of equality. The European Convention on Human Rights also triggers discrimination in Article 14 of Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Therefore, there are now two counts of defamation in Article 299 of our current Penal Code and Article 125. One is presidential, 299; Parliament Speaker, ministers, deputy prime minister, MPs, public officials, the 125th article on our citizens. Now, dear friends, your personality and personality, as much as we all value personality and personality, as much as we need protection, the President needs protection. We don't want to say, let the president be cursed, insulted. We don't say that. Your personality, your personality, is protected in whatever legal protection the President is protected in the same way. The president's honor, his personality, is no higher than yours; neither is mine, nor yours. Honor provides equality. Honor wins respect. As equals in this respect, we are not discriminated against among citizens, dear friends. In this respect, I urge you to support the amendment to Article 299 of this Turkish Penal Code, with all due respect and respect.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0119par0828	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Now, the final speaker, Mr. Omar Fethi Gürer of Niğde. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0120par0832	Mr. President, the request for amendments to Article 299 of the Criminal Code is a request for the actions of the President to be brought to other authorities -- the MP -- and the Prime Minister -- to apply to public institutions. I think it would be right to be supported. I also think that in essence, no one should insult anyone, and it would be right to use the language that will not cause the dissolution of society, as well as the co-operation that will be created in human life through understanding and mutual negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this week is Labor Week. As you know, the company provides the beginning of the tradesman's organization. It's based on the concept of human beings first. So in the human presence, it involves the new structure that it will create its identity in production together. Unfortunately, we've lost a lot of value in our country. At the heart of the order is to be true, to be honest, to stay away from lies, to avoid lies, to steal. The secularism is a sense of skill that extends from apprentice to mastery in the existence of an institution. Unfortunately, our country is on its way to the consumer community. We're getting away from production, we're losing our jobs. This week's event on the constitution in Nigde will also be presented in the field of a reflection of the professions from the past to our time. But unfortunately, the market of the past, its donkey, to Niğde. The market understandings of professions, production, understanding, and thinking that the values of man are being offered have been lost, and it has become increasingly forgotten. If we call our child today, he doesn't know, he doesn't know, he doesn't know, he doesn't know, he doesn't know, he doesn't know, he doesn't know. Blacksmiths are forgotten, carpentry ends, tailoring ends. In addition, in our country, 83,000 grocery stores have been closed in five years, only 570 grocery stores have been sold out in Niğde, 570 have been surrendered to the AVM, and the individual's efficiency, hard work, productivity, creativity has been dulled. In every sense, we need to violently distance ourselves from the understanding that has become an individual that is dependent on all kinds of externality, which is increasingly subject to all the pressures of capitalism, which is not used to produce it, but to consume it. In our country, there was a time when there was talk of the beauty of the masters, and it was said that -- it's an expression of our place -- it's a craftsman who puts a handle on the egg. It's a pity that people who are conservative, who know how to share, who know how to be fair, who know how to make easy money in our country, who live with corruption, who know how to steal, who know how to live with it, who know how to live with it. We need to get away from this quickly, get back to our values. We are moving away from the concept of family, away from social structure, away from the life of the tradesmen, away from the secular culture, where we are separated from each other, to respect each other with the concept of human beings who exist in the enlightenment of Anatolia, and to share with each other fairly and not to support each other. I'm afraid we're going to the next-door neighbor's understanding of the human being who took it and went to him because it smelled like cooking. (CHP) This understanding leads to the darkness of this country's future. Let's support your breeder, let's share justice, let's applaud the successful people, let's make sense of our values that grow for the country's future, what they've done, what they've done, what they've done, what they've given us. If it is the future of our country, let us re-create the enlightenment of Asia Minor yesterday, the culture of the act together, the brotherhood, the unity, the body, and the culture of acting together, which has been brought into this land by Jonah Emretah, Haci Bektas Veli, Mezlana, and Ahi Evran. (CHP and AK PARTY) Let's point each other in the right direction by criticizing each other. Let's not make enemies grow in this land. If we don't want this country to suffer tomorrow, let's unite in love, let's unite in sincerity, let's unite in honesty. The beauty of our future passes through our human lives with the light to reflect on the Great National Assembly of Turkey. First, I salute all of you with the concept of man.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0121par0840	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Horseman, I beg you, sir, for two minutes, not to challenge a new challenge.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0122par0846	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, in my speech just now, he claimed that I was speculating, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group. Dear friends, we do not speculate, we speak the facts, but we speak the facts of Turkey. AKP's deputy group leader says: "Davutoglu is the crown of our heads." Dear friends, we can't stab the people we crown in the back, that's not in our culture. If you're stabbing the people you're crowning in the back, I've come here for four years without his will, I'm sorry, I'm sending the apocalypse to your conscience. You created a prime minister who had to get out of there. History will never forgive that. Sir, I cannot write the government program in 48 hours; it is shameful; an entire government is being formed. Ha, if you're setting up the Court, but if you're forming a government, the program won't be written in 48 hours. He says the AKP is still in power. No matter who comes, nothing will change. He said what I've been saying all along, God bless him, in one sentence. No matter who comes, no matter who sits in those seats, nothing will change. He is the deputy head of the Justice and Development Party. We say the same thing, every sentence that comes out of one man's two lips is your free will, that's what we're trying to tell you. We also thank Mr. Group Vice President for telling us this in a short way, which has revealed the true nature of the AKP.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0123par0850	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0124par0851	Here you go, Mr. Coshkun.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0123par0852	In his speech, Mr. orator, he used the expression "Davutoğlu" to stab him in the back, which is more than that. I want a say in this, and I want a say in this.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0125par0853	Sir, whoever stabbed him should have a say. So you stabbed him, sir. And thank you for agreeing to be bullied.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0124par0854	Mr. Coshkun, come in. Two minutes, please, no more teasing.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0126par0857	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, there is a saying that if you understand a mosquito sedation, you can't understand a drum. I'd like to say that in general, but I'd like to dedicate it to Mr. Horseman in private. Dear friends, I don't think it's in vain to expect Mr. Horseman to understand what we've done, what we've revealed, and what Mr. Bostanci had just said in a long-standing speech. Dear friends, in 14 years -- we can say it's 15 years now -- to understand why this movement is in power, what kind of continuity it's in, what kind of a case it's turned into, maybe you need to read it well, see it well, explore all the stages. If we don't do this, we won't understand the continuity. So in the name of the work we did at the last convention, we said, "Keep walking in peace." There's a walk in the middle, and we call it a happy walk. We said, "People, the authorities are temporary," and we say it exactly like we say it. Human beings, places, positions, machinations, all temporary. We didn't just index this move to 2016, 2017. If our party program had been read, you would have seen that the purpose of the movement was to plan 2023, 2053, and 2071. In that sense, it's a piece of cake to do the party show, it's just a revision. By nature, how did you do this program, where did you do it? Dear friends, dear lawmakers, to understand this, I repeat again: people who plan 2023, 2053, 2071, with a schedule, with a goal, can understand that. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0127par0863	Thank you, Mr. Cakyr.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0128par0864	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit01spe0127par0865	I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0127par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 92nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the special agenda's part of the agenda. Now, the Council of Ministers, founded by Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım Bey, will be read. To read the Council of Ministers Programme, I would like to call Prime Minister Bakil Yıldırım Bey to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0129par0009	Mr. President, in the name of the 65th, Justice and Development Party of our republic, I salute our beloved nation and your esteemed representatives of our Parliament. I thank you, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our Republic, and all the states and political men who have served the great nation, left art, and laid stones upon stones. In the November 1st election, which was fair and free in peace and security, with high participation and representation, our nation once again demonstrated a strong will for the continuation of the AK PARTI power, and our democracy grew stronger than the elections. The main winner of the November 1st election, without a doubt, is Turkey, our beloved nation. I congratulate Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu and his members of the Council of Ministers, who have carried out their successful work so far, with my deepest feelings for their services, on behalf of my nation, on behalf of my party. At this time, I express our appreciation for the intense fulfillment of many promises that we have made to our nation during the election process. I would like to stress in particular that government changes are a change of flag in the race to serve our people. As EC PARTY governments, we have always fulfilled our promises to our people, and from now on, we will continue to fulfill them fully. The architect of all our achievements after 2002 is undoubtedly the founder of our party, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. (AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers) We will move these achievements, led by our President, to the future by working together in the presidency, under his leadership. Like all AK PARTY governments, our government will no doubt serve all our citizens, the government of all our citizens, if it does not vote for our party. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY governments have worked hard despite all challenges to ensure that democracy is established in our country for 14 years, that our unity is strengthened. With great common sense, our nation has exceeded any organization to weaken the national-willed political institution. From now on, any attempt against national will must be known that with the support of our nation, we will overcome it with our firm stance. We will continue our decisive struggle with all the old, new custody elements that are threatening our national security, trying to disrupt our holy march towards unity and unity of our country. Our fight against all terrorist organisations, including the separatist terrorist group, will continue with determination. No illegitimateness will be tolerated for the unity of our nation, for the brotherhood, for the sake of our state. Let our nation know that this scourge of terror will be removed from Turkey's agenda. In our country's struggle against terrorism, I pray to God for the mercy of our heroic martyrs who have shed their blood and given their lives for the future of our country and for the peace of our nation. On behalf of my people, I thank all our martyrs and veterans and their families and relatives, who are their trust. Dear lawmakers, in the elections so far, political parties have always made promises to the new constitution, but these promises, unfortunately, have been put on the shelf after the election, which the national will has chosen, unfortunately, have failed to achieve the new constitution. This is the day now. The new constitution, including the presidential system, will be among our top priorities in the 26th Legislature period. For the first time, we expect to see other political parties present in the construction of this constitution, which will be carried out by the will of the nation. Let's do this historic responsibility together. Dear lawmakers, as we march into the 100th year of our republic, the radical changes we will make in education, in the justice system, in the economy will lead our country to the standard of high income groups and countries at the highest level of human development. Our government will continue to build the future of our nation, as it has been so far. Let the people live. Whatever we do with the government, we will first put our people's happiness and prosperity first. The main purpose of our actions is to make our people's lives easier, improve the quality of life, improve their well-being. EC PARTY governments have an institutional continuity and experience that has never been held by a party in the history of the republic. In 14 years, we will move our actions and radical transformations further and further to our 2023 goals, and we will continue our journey in a strong, decisive manner. For a stronger Turkey in the coming period, we're going to use our nation's authority with practices that enrich the country, enhance the welfare of citizens, prior to fair sharing, move democracy forward. Our differences are our wealth. In this sense, we will continue to respect our citizens' beliefs, language, culture, values, lifestyle, and all other differences. We will continue to expand the field of rights and freedoms based on human development. Dear lawmakers, in the 21st century terms, it is our common responsibility to move our country further. We will continue to contribute to peace, stability in our region, and in the world, by taking power from our long-standing past through this responsibility. Our goal in foreign policy is to maintain firmness in Turkey's policies that will maintain peace and brotherhood in its region. The 65th Government Programme I present to you is based on our commitments to the Tenth Development Plan in the election declaration. This program, which we offer your appreciation and ask for your trust, will be an important milestone in bringing our country to its rightful place in its territory and in the world. Our country is at its minimum affected by regional and global crises, thanks to the stability and confidence environment that began with the EC PARTY governments, and unlike many countries, it has managed to maintain growth, development. From now on, we will continue our success in making our country a global and regional island of stability and trust, and we will continue in a strong way during the 65th Government. Our reforms and actions will serve Turkey's goal with a human-focused understanding, predicating investment, employment, production, the fair share of prosperity. In this context, we're going to focus our work on six basic areas. These, in turn, are democracy and justice, education, change in the real economy, priority transformation programmes, public administration and public finances. It is an indispensable goal for our citizens to advance justice, economic and social development, with human rights and freedoms that are essential to our citizens. Turkey's true comparative superiority is the young and dynamic population. In view of this fact, we've come a very important distance in education, in equality of opportunities, and in access to everyone's educational opportunities. In the coming period, we will give more speed to specialise in education and improve quality at all levels. We're going to make the real sector stronger, more competitive on the way to becoming a country that grows by producing, creating jobs, developing exports. With the steps we take in this frame, we will increase the share of high-end additives based on advanced technology in our production and exports. The business and investment environment will improve, encourage and support national and international direct investments, and we will take whatever measures all investors need on time. We care about an effective personnel system based on time management in the public. That way, we'll have an administrative structure that works faster and decides faster. We will quickly implement arrangements in local governments that will ensure the use of public resources for the good of the country and for the nation. We'll continue to implement our priority transformation program, which includes all these areas. In this way, we will achieve the goal of growing at a higher rate, which will increase savings, investment, production, exports. Our action plan, which has been implemented in 2016, will be carried out by consideration of priorities in our government programme. Dear MPs, our young people are our future. Finding vocational education and employment opportunities for our young ones will be one of our priority tasks. In order to achieve the knowledge society, efforts to transition to the fourth industrial revolution in our country, particularly information communication technologies, will be given speed. Our 65th government will continue to achieve economic growth through political stability and trust. In this period, we will focus much more on investments and projects and support private sector investments. We will take the necessary steps to strengthen our local and national industry, especially the space, aviation and defence industry, as we put it in the field of science and technology. On the one hand, we provide alternative financial opportunities for productive investments, while on the other hand, we facilitate access to financing under appropriate conditions. We will prioritize public and private sector co-operation and employment-based projects and investments in areas that do not attract the attention of the private sector. So we can strengthen attempts to minimize regional development differences. We have complete confidence in the support of our Parliament and our nation so that we can fulfill our responsibility to our nation by carrying out all this. Now, I'd like to bring up some of the important issues from our government program, which we've distributed to you, with its basics and outlines. As our Republic's 100th year goes to 2023, our priority is to have a new constitution based on pluralist, liberal, democratic, civilian, national and rule of law. The basic principle of the new constitution to be built on these values will be moral reference, human dignity and human sensitivity. Human rights and freedoms will be the focus of the new constitution, and in this framework, the only limiting freedom of thought, faith, expression and initiative is the freedom of other citizens with equal rights. Turkey's many issues on rights and freedoms, which the EC PARTY governments view as an important area of reform, have been resolved in line with the expectations and needs of our nation. Important steps have been taken to ensure that our country is a strong legal state. Antidemocratic and illegal practices, crimes against basic human rights, custodys established on national will and politics have been eliminated one by one. The struggle for democracy that we have waged during the past administrations will move further and further with the contribution of all our communities. We will march together to the future as a society that lives in peace, peace, unity, and brotherhood, where everyone can live, express their ideas freely, contribute to prosperity, earn their share of prosperity. In this context, the political area will expand, the will of the nation will be fully investigated instead of custody, and with the new constitution and system the new Turkish Assembly of the National Assembly, the Law of Political Parties, and the Election Law will be implemented by preparing. Since the day the EC PARTY came to power, the government has been constantly fighting guardiany mentalitys, expressing that it has no right to identify and dictate to society. We consider it our most important duty to ensure our citizens' rights and freedoms, to eliminate obstacles that limit their use. In this period, we will bring to life a stronger understanding of a democratic collective consciousness based on equal citizenship and universal principles and values, which embraces everyone, regardless of their ethnic identity, religion, faith. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, from the very first day as the AK PARTI, we have always struggled to abandon the understanding that, through the politics that we've shaped from the perspective of unity and brotherhood, our citizens have undermined our state's sovereignty, that our nation's differences are considered a threat rather than wealth. Throughout our recent history, we have faced problems with courage and determination that no elected government has shown. In the 65th period of government, we will continue our determination to fight terrorism to eliminate threats against the rule of law, to prevent the victims of our citizens, to ensure safety of lives and property. The ongoing anti-terrorism operations will be carried out decisively until the peace and security of our citizens, the armed attacks on our civilian citizens and security forces are permanently terminated and the weapons of terrorist groups are abandoned. With that understanding, the services, the investments will never be abandoned, and there will be no retreat. It is the state's top priority to address security risks for different reasons in the process, to protect our citizens from the pressures of ceberut and the tyrannical organization in the region. Every EC PARTY government programme has always had a pluralist and liberal new constitution commitment. In the coming period, we are determined to lead the construction of the civil, participating, pluralist, democratic and civil constitution. We believe that the Constitution should be in an inclusive, embracer, complementary, advocate, pluralist, and libertarian character. The new constitution should move our republic's achievements in human rights, democracy into the future, completely erase the scars of custody, meet the expectations for the future of the individual and society. In the 65th period of government, laws such as election laws, the Law of Political Parties, directly linked to the constitutional system will be updated. In our country, government system debates have a long history, different political parties and leaders at different times in our political history have always raised the issue of the system, new proposals, especially the presidential system, have been discussed, but no progress has been made until today. Today, it has become a necessity to put aside these debates and to introduce a formal and legal status with the constitution as well as the fact that our President was elected by the people. The authority of the present system, the task, the many vagueness of the sharing of responsibility, makes the political system necessary to reorganise. Many attempts have been made to resolve the obstruction within the current system with compromises in our Parliament, but so far, unfortunately, there has been no common compromise. In this regard, as promised in the election, as the EC PARTY, we will begin the necessary work to avoid keeping this matter on the agenda of our country, and we will seek the support of all political parties in this regard. The new constitution envisions a new political system, where elections will produce stability, legislation, executives are potentially active, democratic balance control mechanisms are active, representation of social differences, and decision-making processes are accelerating. Everyone should know that AK PARTY's proposal for the presidential system is based on unitary structure. We view justice as the basis of property and legitimacy as the basis of the state of law. For us, justice should be based on the rule of law, free of any focus of power, unbiased, unbiased, responding quickly to the citizens' expectations. The Judicial Reform Strategy Document, which includes comprehensive policies in the field of justice, will be implemented effectively. As the 65th government, we will surely ensure the efficiency, speed, accountability and economicity of the judiciary. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as EC PARTY governments, our security approach will be discussed on the basis of trust in citizens, by strengthening state, community, and social relations, thus a new approach will come to the forefront. We will continue to implement our principle in the 65th century, in our actions, in the security of freedoms and in the rule of law. With international and regional terrorism-sponsored environments and focus, we will continue our decisive struggle, as we have so far. In this stance and struggle, we will support the rule of law, the security services, with mechanisms that will increase participation, accountability, maximum sensitivity to our innocent citizens so that they don't get hurt. In our country, the guardian actor and institutions have shown a determined will to undermine their influence on politics, and we have brought the political system's goals of democratisation to this day with serious progress, but our country has been exposed to the attacks of new custody centers, as it focused on its goal to build a democratic system based on national will in the fight against traditional guardian actors and institutions. The parallel terrorist organization, which is trying to take over the 17-25 December coup attempt -- the business world, various parts of civil society, the educational community, the religious community, the security and judicial bureaucracy -- and our legal, administrative struggle with the internal, external extensions of this organisation will continue uninterrupted. No man or cut will ever be allowed to arm wrestle with the government. In the changing of terms and understandings in public administration, the approach based on innovative, citizen satisfaction is essential to us. In view of bureaucratic patriarchy and routineization, we will review our management structure, our practices. With the observer's supervision, we will constantly improve the quality of business and life with political ownership. We'll activate our government personnel regime, plan manpower in public. In the framework of our information society strategy, e-government applications will be further encouraged, and Turkey's goals of becoming a knowledge society will be captured. Let the people live so that the state can live. The AK PARTY governments, acting on its principle, strongly applied the concept of human development in all aspects of life. Social policies are not only valuable to us, but are a basic cornerstone for all policy areas. We will continue to adopt an approach that improves the quality of education as the 65th government, provides effective health care, improves the population dynamics, maintains the family structure; gives the woman, youth, child, employee, disability, seniority, and support necessary. With this approach, we aim for Turkey to enter the category of higher human development among countries in the category of very high human development. The main axis of the human development goal is education. The EC PARTI government accepts education as an investment in our future from a long-term point of view, and we see our human resource as a lifetime education process that makes our human living standard more competitive with the modern world. We're going to reduce the differences between school species and regional successes, and we're going to bring all the dimensions of education to equal opportunity. We'll continue to adapt the curriculum to knowledge technologies, supported teaching. We will expand and enhance educational content. We will surely be interested in the ability of our students to study foreign languages to communicate in writing and verbally. Through the FATHIH Project, we will give all students equal opportunities in education. We're going to eliminate regional differences in this matter. The quality of education will be increased in the way that the business world needs to be trained in the fields of employment. We'll have completed our reform studies in higher education by this time. In order to reduce the pressure of the test on our students, we will allow more than a year's transition to higher education to repeat the exams. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are one of the most successful areas of the AK PARTY authorities have ever been in. We have launched our city hospitals projects to ensure sustainability of healthcare standards, to improve the quality of service with new reforms. So far, 18 city hospitals have been built, and the remaining 11 city hospitals are in the planning stage. Once these are complete, we'll be able to reach 41,000 new beds. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In medical technology, in the pharmaceutical industry, in health tourism, we don't use our country's potential enough. With domestic and national production, our goal will be to reduce both our exchange deficits and increase our capacity in this area. In the coming period, our project will continue to increase the quality of beds in hospitals. Protective medicine will continue to be spread. Healthy living culture will be encouraged. We'll improve health care at home. We're going to increase domestic production in biotechnology. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, as the 65th government, we consider strengthening the family institution to be the main axis of our human-based development policy, to ensure that our children and other family members grow up in a qualified way. The guarantee of our future is that when our children grow up in a quality family environment, they will grow up spiritually and physically healthy, and they will form generations that bring dynamics to society. For this purpose, the infrastructure of the Family Social Support Programme will be completed and sufficient personnel will be employed all over the dorm. For our children, they will be transferred to the specialized rehabilitation system, where they will be brought to society as quickly as possible by the victims of the crime or the children who have been led to the crime. We're going to implement a more effective national application program for aging for the more active participation of our elderly in economic and social life. Mr. President, we will continue our social protection policies and reduce poverty during the 65th term of the government. We'll increase co-ordination and cooperation between social services and charities. In that sense, we're going to bring the family union system to life. We'll strengthen the bond between welfare and employment. We will provide free internet access to poor families by certain standards. For short-term day care for disabled young people and children, we will establish a securely disabled living center where children can be left behind. Special information and communication technologies for disabled persons, we're going to make sure that software equipment is spread. We're going to increase the ability of disabled people to access information and communication technologies. In the new era, we're going to continue by increasing the policies and the work we've started in order for the woman to become more individual and socially strong. To promote early childhood education, measures will be taken to encourage our girls to continue their education, continued employment incentives for women's employment, the women's entrepreneurial programme will be put into practice, and our women's employment will be facilitated. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In working life, we're going to increase awareness-building programs to strengthen the awareness of male-female equality. We're going to implement business and family policy for our women. Our future is our youth. For our young people, you know, we've narrowed it down to 18 years of selection. Our new goal in the 65th century is to reduce the age of selection to 18. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There will be various programmes for strengthening young entrepreneurial financing, technology, business and marketing. As it is known to our young people, we have begun to provide unrequited cash support for the project for up to 50,000 liras. We will also provide interest-free financial support to young people who want to start or develop their own business. We're going to bring income tax exemptions to our young people who are starting jobs for three years. We're bringing the youth program to life. We will support the artistic activities and sporting activities of our young people based on projects. We started Internet access to our young people for free, and we're going to make it even more common. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as EC PARTY governments, we aim to preserve our cultural and art values, reproduce them, pass them on to future generations in quality. Our efforts for an aesthetic cultured society, which sees cultural differences as wealth, where everyone contributes and achieves cultural and art activities. The work on institutionalisation of intellectual property rights will be accelerated. We will allow our language to be developed in harmony with our civilization. We will continue to encourage domestic production in theater, cinema, opera, music, in the field of universal standards. We will continue to open new libraries in various parts of the country, with the capacity to provide user-oriented, qualified library services. The construction of city museums will be completed. We will ensure that our provinces are protected by cultural and artistic assets, passed on to future generations. Mr. President, esteemed lawmakers, as a government, we consider sports an important tool for being a healthy society and socializing. During the 65th government, we aim to establish sports culture in our society, to increase the quality and diversity of sports services, to spread sports to large populations, to create more jobs and revenue opportunities in every branch of the sport. We care about taking our nation's relationship with sports out of its position to become an active athlete. In our country, athletes will be trained to represent our country in national and international competitions at more than 40 regional camps. Mr. President, good lawmakers, working life is also important. The job guarantee and severance issues will be resolved with the rights and laws of the employee, which will be discussed with all social parties. On the basis of the European Union and ILO standards, we have implemented the Business Health and Safety Action Plan. We'll simplify the process of alien work permits. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, a sustainable operating system in the field of social security and general health insurance has been implemented. In our community benefit programs, we will prioritize those who are not working in their family, and we will include the level of vocational education in the programmes. We're going to increase the ability of low-income pensioners to buy housing through TOKI. In addition to the sectoral contribution, we will continue to support complementary pension savings, which we believe will strengthen the austerity trend in our country. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, at this time in the economy, we will strengthen macroeconomic stability and gains, while focusing on sectoral transformations, we will raise the potential for growth. In the last 14 years, we aim to bring our country into the upper middle income group, which we've raised to the upper middle income group, into the top income group. Our economy, which will grow substantially in trust and stability, will be based on our qualified, entrepreneurial, innovative people and our enterprises, which will increase the value of information and technology. In the coming period, we're going to focus on high-velocity areas that will give our country more momentum, and we're going to transform in the manufacturing industry, based on innovative and high-tech sectors. The financial discipline we are implementing in public finances and the achievements of this framework have contributed significantly to economic stability and growth. In the coming period, the quality of public income and spending will continue to be the same. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we're going to increase public infrastructure investments, the healthy development of production in the economy, to provide positive externality in areas the private sector needs. Our public-owned infrastructure will encourage private sector investments, increase its capacity, and contribute to efficiency-based growth dynamics. Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the most important ways to close the current deficit is to increase exports. We will not only increase exports, we will also increase the quality of our exports. So, we're going to prioritize the value of exports per kilo from $2 to $10 in high-tech add-up products, and we're going to support this kind of production. Mr. President, the primary goal of monetary policies is to ensure and maintain price stability. In this period, monetary policy will also monitor financial stability and will support the production, employment, growth policies that we will implement -- not to fight -- in order to ensure price stability. The wavy foreign currency dry regime will continue, and it will continue to be essential that the Central Bank directly determines the monetary policy tools it will implement to ensure price stability. Mr. President, we're going to bring up a dynamic perspective in the area of financial services. In this context, we're going to further support the deepening of the financial markets, the public companies. The development of financial markets, the Istanbul International Financial Centre, which we see is vital for the increase in financial depth, will surely act effectively, creating a mechanism for co-ordinating in the interest-free financial field. We're going to encourage investments through investment development banking, which provides long-term financing. The Development Bank will fund investments in strategic sectors long-term. We will take measures that will facilitate access to financing for investment financing, especially to SMEs and qualified infrastructure investment investments. Financial discipline will be carried out with the same determination in the 65th government. At the same time, we will avoid waste by paying maximum attention to our expenses, while we will take measures to diversify our revenues and improve quality. We're going to make our efforts to reduce the rate of off-books economy more effective. We're going to bring the cut rates of the individual pension system closer to international levels, and we're going to start the self-accession pilot in the system. We'll encourage the development of life insurance and long-term private health insurance. Mr. President, valued lawmakers will continue public investments, a complementary and complementary view of private sector investments for high and stable growth during the 65th term of the government. We're going to use public investments as an effective tool to assess regional development potential in a way that reduces the difference between regional development. Projects will be accelerated as part of action plans such as GAP, DAP, KOP, DOCAP. Major projects initiated by public-special cooperation will be completed. Public-special co-operation efforts will continue in many areas, including new high-speed railway lines. Just last week, the large project, which cost a total of 7 billion investments, was tied up with three and a half years of bids -- a total of only three and a half years -- from the Kineli-Odayeri and Sultanbeyli to Akyır. What does that mean? Seven billion investments -- this will not be made from the state -- will run for three and a half years and give it back to the state.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0130par0099	Who got the contract?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0131par0100	Who took the contract, Mr. Prime Minister?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0129par0101	You'll see who gets the contract. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) In front of everyone. If you're wondering, appeal to the highways, and you'll see who's taking the tender.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0131par0102	Tell me when you're here.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0129par0103	Moses, don't be hasty. We're just getting started. Why can't you wait? Wait, we'll have more talk.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0131par0104	No, I'm listening, we're curious.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0129par0105	Yes, our government's main priority will be production, growth, employment, more and more qualified private sector investments. The appropriate environment and supportive mechanisms will be accelerated to increase domestic and international investments. We'll speed up the transformation programmes for the development of business and investment environment. One of the areas we consider most important as governments is employment. Our goal will be to find work for more unemployed people in the new era. The way is to accelerate investments, especially in areas where the private sector does not find attractive, is to bring investments and create jobs with special mechanisms created by the public. In this context, with a new programme in our country's parts of the country, mainly east and southeast, with an investment deficit, with a state-owned, private sector cooperation, these investments will be implemented, where employment will be created, where our young people will be prevented from falling into the network of the terrorist organization. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as the 65th government, we believe that our country's economic and social development has passed through innovative production. In the past period of power, we've tried to create a resource infrastructure for transition into an information-based, competitive economy. Science, technology, innovation has a critical role in our country's economy. We know that the breakthroughs in these areas will bring competitiveness to our country and will lead to sustainable socioeconomic development. Co-ordination between institutions aimed at increasing RD and innovation activities in the new period will be strengthened and increased. We're going to put much more emphasis on domestic products, domesticization and nationalization in sectors where outside dependency is high. In this context, we've started infrastructure to create our aviation and space industry. We'll soon bring up the Turkish space agency's institutional code on the agenda of the Supreme Assembly, so that we can prepare an important infrastructure to build our native satellite, our native aircraft, our native weapons and ammunition. (AK PARTY) Today's investment in the defence industry during the AK PARTY was over $30 billion, only $2 billion before the AK PARTI power. While the rate of localization and nationalization in the defence industry was less than 20 per cent, during the AK PARTI rule, today has risen to over 50 per cent. This is what supports the real domestic industry, the national industry. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have decided that my time...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0132par0110	Mr. Prime Minister, we now have four martyrs in Van Ringer. Based on current news.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0129par0111	Yes, we have martyrs, that's right. They're the saplings who put their lives on the line for the independence of the country and the nation. They are in our hearts.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0132par0113	Shouldn't we take precautions for them?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0129par0114	No matter who tries to divide this country, this struggle will continue with determination until there is only one terrorist left. I ask God's mercy for our martyrs.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0133par0115	Until there's not a single terrorist left.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0134par0116	He's telling you to keep one, make a sample.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0135par0117	Until there is no more one terrorist, not until there is one.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0133par0118	Until there's no more.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0136par0119	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0137par0120	Please do not interfere. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0138par0122	Mr. President, we're going to consider our country's supply balance, foreign trade policies while the valued lawmakers shape our agricultural supports. In agricultural support, we'll move on to a certified production method, looking for product support, water potential compatibility. We'll make the agricultural insurance coverage even more widespread. The final goal of watering the land will be to reach 8.5 million hectares, especially the pressurized modern irrigation systems that allow water savings. We'll rethink the water management and pricing system with an austerity-enhancing approach. We're going to implement measures that will solve the problems of the irrigation troops once and for all. We will continue construction of main channels and water distribution networks, which we have largely completed in the GAP. In the mid-term, all the GAP irrigations will be watered down to 10 million and 580,000. Once the irrigation is complete, the GAP will become a production and export center that produces food and exports to the world. As it turns out, the Plain of the Conium Project has started with the Blue Tunnel, and has watered 9,240,000 hectares of land so far in the Plains of Iconium with distribution networks. By 2019, all 11 million acres will be watered down. In 2019, the East Anatolia Project, covering 14 provinces, will bring 2.3 million per cent of land to water. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, energy will be carried out to the final consumer on the basis of a continuous, quality, security, affordable cost and distribution of sources of energy. What we've done in the last 14 years about energy is we've doubled the power of the board, doubled our consumption, increased 100 percent. (EC PARTY and Council of Ministers) So we've removed 72,000 megawatts from 36 thousand megawatts, we've increased the diversification by 143 percent, and we've increased the use from 130 billion kilowatts to 264 billion kilowatts. Turkey is not growing. It is the best answer to those who say. Energy consumption means growth. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've come to deliver. If you want me to skip this place, we're running out of time. So you come from all over the country, you see the divided roads, you see the airports, you see the fast train. We've divided the roads...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0139par0130	We're on the express train, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0140par0131	Not in Niğde, Mr. Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0138par0132	We've divided roads, united lives. We divided the roads, united the nation.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0141par0133	Tell him about the train accidents, Mr. Prime Minister, and the train accidents.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0142par0134	Tell me about the accidents...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0143par0135	They're jealous, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0144par0136	We made the airline public road. (AK PARTY and Ministers' Council of Ministers' rankings) May 14th...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0145par0137	Tell them about the accidents in Pamukova.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0146par0138	You've removed the people's brand, Mr. Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0144par0139	Dear friends...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0146par0140	30,000 people travel a day, down to 19,000 a month.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0147par0141	Mr. Haydar, this is the Prime Minister!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0144par0142	Haydar... Haydar...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0146par0143	30,000 people traveled a day between Adapazari and Istanbul, down to 19,000 a month. You promised in three years...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0148par0144	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0144par0145	Haydar, hello... hello...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0146par0147	Hello, Mr. Prime Minister. Good luck.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0148par0148	Please continue.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0144par0149	Look, make sure you're ready.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0146par0150	Okay.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0144par0151	Look, get ready, we've got work to do. Here we go.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0146par0152	Yes, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0144par0153	Now, dear friends, transportation...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0149par0154	Let's not...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0144par0155	August 14, 2013... I have something to say, folks, it's important. Something happened in Turkey on August 14, 2013. We paid off our last penny to the IMF.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0150par0157	Let Haydar hear, Haydar!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0144par0158	It's not enough...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0151par0159	Mr. Prime Minister, we've paid off our debt to the IMF, that's right.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0152par0160	Please don't interfere Mr. Haydar.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0144par0161	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0151par0162	How much do we owe? The deputy head of the group told you to tell me, so I'm asking...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0144par0163	Haydar... Haydar...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0151par0164	Please tell me how much we owe when we pay the IMF.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0144par0165	Listen... listen...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0151par0166	Okay, I'm listening. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0144par0167	Listen, be patient.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0151par0168	But your group vice president said, "Tell Haydar. "
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0153par0169	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please don't interrupt me. Please... there will be a debate, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0151par0171	It's all right, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0154par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. What else happened that day, fellas? Yavuz Sultan Selim... we have tendered the largest bridge in the world. What else happened? We're bidding on the biggest airport in the world. What else happened? Since 1880, the interest rate in Turkey has dropped to 4.6, more than a hundred years. But it made someone uncomfortable, and the whole back-to-back trip thing started. What were the demands for travel events at the end? Do not build the third bridge, do not build the third airport.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0155par0174	What does that have to do with anything? Not at all.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0156par0175	No, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0154par0176	It's in a letter from the NGO that was brought here and given to you, my friends, how quickly you've forgotten.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0155par0177	It's not like that. Don't do that. Everyone knows about the taxi.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0154par0178	Don't do the bridge, don't do the airport... shall we do Canal Istanbul?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0155par0179	Let's talk about Canal İstanbul.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0154par0180	Any objections?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0155par0181	We have objections, of course we do.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0154par0182	What else are you saying? That's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0155par0184	We object, of course. We object to the network.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0154par0185	Well, that's what I'm saying, Moses, okay.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0155par0186	We're not against the first bridge, we're against the second bridge; we're against the shape and shape, we're against the location.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0154par0187	Thanks.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0157par0188	How dare you! The world's most expensive bridge, Prime Minister!
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0158par0189	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please stay with me.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0154par0190	Friends, the most expensive service is the non-service, so let's know. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Now...
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0157par0191	You robbed a citizen of the Republic of Turkey! It's a shame, isn't it?
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0158par0193	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Prime Minister, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0159par0195	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0158par0196	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please don't disturb me. You express your thoughts at the point of discussion. Let's hear from the Prime Minister in silence, sir. Thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0160par0200	Yes, Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm gathering my speech, time has moved on.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0161par0201	You didn't say anything about a coup, about a civilian coup.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0160par0202	We'll have negotiations anyway, and we'll be able to discuss more details in the meantime. In the coming period, we will work tirelessly, tirelessly, in order to serve our beloved nation, not to undermine the trust of our Parliament; we promise it. And this semester, we're going to do the investments and actions that our country needs one by one, as we have done so far. There will be a government where quality and speed will rise in the 65th government, where the work our people are waiting for will be done without delay, and the necessary steps will be taken, just like the previous AK PARTI governments. In the new era, we will continue our reformist view and eliminate all legal and administrative barriers in front of the country that slow the progress of the country. We have complete faith in our achievements in the last 14 years, our goals for the future, our actions guarantee what we will do. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As our goals in the government programme form our road map, we will be constantly in a dynamic approach, considering developments in the world and Turkey. Work will continue with an understanding that embraces all our citizens. Our government is confident that it will receive the necessary confidence and support from our beloved nation, our great Parliament. We have faith that our House will have the full confidence of our House. With our actions, we will raise production, productivity, prosperity to even higher levels in Turkey. In addition to our people being healthier, educated, well-adjusted, better living standards, we will be the reason for our political presence to become self-reliant individuals in the state, each other, and each other. I wish our nation the best, the best, the 65th government on the way to achieve our goal in the Great Turkey. From us, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-24sit02spe0162par0209	[[AC PARTY and the Council of Ministers applaud standing by]] I'd like to thank you, Prime Minister, for your efforts and results in good deeds. Congressmans, the Council of Ministers' Programme has been presented to the General Assembly by the Prime Minister. Articles 124 of the Constitution's 110th and Interior Law shall be carried out after two full days of reading of the meeting on the Council of Ministers programme. According to this, the talks on the program were held Friday (May 27, 2016) at 15 p.m. It'll be done at 00. It is Friday (May 27, 2016) at 15 p.m. to discuss the Council of Ministers Programme. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
