tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 124th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to İstanbul MP Mr. Onursal Adıl Göllü, who asked for the appointment of August 12th World Youth Day. Mr. Good Name, your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have made a promise to draw attention to the problems of young people whose hopes have been stolen in Turkey due to the International Youth Day of August 12th. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, July 15 curses the bloody coup attempt once again, and on July 15th and today in Şırnak, I pray for God's mercy to all of our martyrs who have died, and to the wounded I pray for immediate healing. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has not been giving a good test for youth for a long time.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0003par0014	Mr. Adil, if you'll excuse me for a moment. Congressmans, the General Assembly is humming. Let's hear from Mr. Adil. Let's not talk amongst ourselves, please. Here you go, Mr. Nice Name.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0004par0017	As of 2016, young people from 18 to 30 years of age, dating back to 20 million in Turkey, face various problems from education to employment, health to liberalisation. Young people who can't find a place in working life, who face unfair competition in education, are forced to go off the books. Millions of young outcasts, desperate and anxious for help because of their physical disability, have given up hope of seeking or seeking a job. I'm sure most of you will remember the painful cry of the Peace teacher who's been waiting 11 years to be appointed. In 2013, in an action against 28-year-old Mehmet Sadik Sun, who committed suicide because he couldn't be appointed, Peace teacher waiting for the appointment cried out that he hadn't looked his mother in the eye in 11 years. Just three years ago, the teacher of Peace said: "Those who follow us may not be touching you today, but today the snake that does not touch you will also touch you. If you do not have us today, you will not find anyone to look after you tomorrow, unless you have the worker, the student, the teacher, who cannot pass through KPSS. The teacher, the victim of the KPS gang, was right today. Those who ignore the cry of the peace teacher, who laid the stones of the bloody July 15th night, are hiding behind victim literature today. Those who are looking for real victims, the note he left to his family, I'm tired, I'm working, but I can't. Even if I had lived, I would still not have succeeded in KPSS. Let them look at Fikret, who said, "I will not succeed in the KPSS. Those looking for real victims should look at the horizon, which ended military high school with a 2nd degree, and had to leave the young cadet with a thousands of pounds of compensation. Those seeking true victims should look at thousands of Alevi youths who have been defeated in interviews only because they are Alevi, who have closed the doors of the bureaucracy on their faces. Those who seek real victims, until yesterday, we have given education. Let them look at 65 thousand young people at universities where they boast, show up at their openings, and lock their doors. Dear lawmakers, the victims of this country are young people who have lost their job, who have lost hope of finding a job, who are forced to work off the record, whose hopes have been stolen at the age of 20. All these lost lives, the lost hope of youth, we have been deceived by a simple explanation. We've been deceived all you want. We know you haven't been deceived. Even you, reluctantly, forced the poor young men of this country into their community and cult homes, their schools. If you had been deceived, we would have stolen the questions. When we said, "There has been a very successful and clean test." You wouldn't have made a claim for the 2010 KPSS test and you wouldn't have accused us of terrorizing the KPSS exam. Today, it's clear who's terrorizing a test with thousands of young people's futures. But come on, it's Mehmet who committed suicide, and there's no turning back for the ten of us who left at the age of 30. Dear MPs, those who have not claimed hundreds of thousands of young people who have been victimised by the fethullahist terrorist organization, what have we not given them? Those who have confessed their dirty alliance in the face of millions today have debt to millions of young people. This debt will not easily be paid by confessing on television screens; it will only be paid on the day when all those responsible, including politicians, will answer in front of justice, not by causing new congregations and sects to rebuild the state, but by rebuilding the system of justice and righteousness. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0005par0023	Thank you, Mr. Nice Name. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Mr. Burcu Çelik Özkan. Congressmans, there's a lot of humming in the General Assembly. Mr. Mahir Ünal, you're on the phone, you're coming this far. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0006par0030	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've been trying to explain to you that for over a year, the cannons have been bombing people's habitats, burning their forests, tearing down their homes, and unfortunately, civilian deaths. We have explained to you that no weapon will be effective in the face of public power, that it will never leave the people's homes and habitats. On the other hand, we have seen within a year that the people have not given up on the fight they believe in. Maybe we've had a hard time telling you this reality, but you've had the night of July 15th, when no weapon, tank, cannon meant anything to you in the face of this power. That's why we'd like to say once again that it's the people's will and the struggle that's the main thing. After the July 15 coup attempt, all public institutions were affected by this initiative. Prisons have been the most affected by this initiative. On the night of July 15th, any open-door opinion rights, lawyers and phone calls of arrested and convicted prisoners were blocked by the Department of Justice by a secret order sent to the administration of prisons. Human rights violations and pressures in prisons continue to take place in prisons in the most violent manner, along with the State-of-the-art decree taken under the name of dealing with Parallel congregation construction. The experiences we've received from examples clearly concern the basic rights and freedoms of the State of Emergency, and the practices so far are either restrictive or completely inhibitive. The fact that the State of Emergency decision was first implemented in prisons also reveals the government's approach to prisons. We, the People's Democratic Party, would like to state to the public that we will follow the effect of the State of Emergency decision on basic rights and freedoms, especially prisons. We have repeatedly expressed the prison problems and the condition of the sick prisoners. Under the circumstances of the country, the Ministry of Justice must conduct a very urgent study of patients and prisoners who are initially on the verge of death. During the transfers and transfers due to arrests carried out with the State of Emergency, sick prisoners were also exiled, regardless of the conditions of the sick prisoners and prisoners. Those who continue their treatment, those who are on the verge of death, even the sick prisoners who wait in prisons in a bedridden state have been exiled. The most important problem with sick prisoners are reports from forensic institutions. Coronerial institutions are re-evaluating their reports a year ago today due to the political conjunctive and cannot remain in the prison. They can change the reports given in the form of a prison. In a report received from a state hospital, he cannot stay in a prison compared to 97 per cent. He can report to a person called the Forensic Medical Association. It is clear that these practices violate the human rights we talk about a lot these days, dear friends. Another of the main problems is the current application of handcuffed examinations. According to the information we have received, the intervention of the armband during the examination, the handcuffed examination, the practice of physicians to make an examination handcuffed not only in accordance with medical ethics under this pressure, but in front of the treatments of all prisoners and prisoners. At this point, we say that the trilateral protocol agreement has laid the groundwork for this exercise, so protocols must be reconsidered on the basis of human rights. I'd like to mention here some of the names that we've witnessed during our prison visits with all the party groups, who have had 15 surgeries and are currently under arrest. Other than that, Abdulkadir Firat is still paralyzed by an 80% report that we face during our visit to all party groups. Regarding Ergin Aktas, the Minister of Justice has acknowledged that he is being held in prison here against the law. Dear friends, I have every confidence that every congressman here is sensitive to human rights. We'd like to address everyone from here once again: come, let's put aside the political thoughts and the current condition of the sick prisoners and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...let's set up a commission to investigate the terms of the judge and put an end to this massive violation of human rights.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0007par0038	Mr. Özkan, I'm making a positive distinction, so I'll give you one more minute. Please complete. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0006par0040	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, dear friends, we invite the Ministry of Justice to immediately abandon these human rights violations and these oppressive attitudes, first through sick prisoners and all prisoners, and I think it's important to emphasize here to our dear friends here in Parliament that a commission must be set up to work together to investigate the conditions of the sick prisoners, to present the conditions of their release, and to be immediately, to be released from the scene of death. I salute you all with respect and love, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0008par0044	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. The third unscheduled statement is from Ağrı MP Cesim Gökçe, who asked for a comment on the coup attempt on July 15, 2016. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Gökçe.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0009par0050	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs for the coup attempt we had on the night of July 15th. Before I begin my words, I wish God's mercy to our martyrs who lost their lives today because of the terrorist attack in Şırnak. I hereby curse terror once again. I salute our Veterans. On the night of July 15th, Turkey was attacked by the lowest, ugliest, biggest attack in its history. This attack, the coup, beyond the terrorist attack, was an attempt to invade Turkey. A plan to destroy our country, destroy our nation, turn the streets into a pool of blood, start a civil war, make our nation unintegrated, and turn Turkey into an organizational state has been nullified. Turkey's enemies Gulen and terrorists, the extensions of that foreign intelligence network in Turkey, have shown the most disgusting form of treason that we haven't seen in a thousand years. He was seen by the faces of the officers in handcuffs, by the faces of their manuscript, by the lack of personality, by the lack of identity, by what kind of country and nation they were enemies. This country, this nation, has broken a great plan, its plot, its plot, its game, its resistance together; its politician, its journalist, its police, its student, its woman, its man. Those scoundrels and their masters have received a heavy answer from our nation. This vile attempt will be commemorated along with the Mongol invasion, Byzantine, Balkan defeat, World War I, the Battle of Çanakkale, the Imperial War and the Crusades. Not just the terrorist boss Gulen and his terrorists, but their boss's goal was Turkey, and this country had to be removed from the equation. Soon after, the blueprints for the entire region would be laid out on the table; Turkey would no longer have a will, no resistance, no objections. Whatever causes the Crusaders fought against us yesterday, the children of the Crusaders today are trying to siege and stop Turkey for the same reasons. The three centuries-old tyranny of Western civilization, rooting out all cultures and civilizations, will not stand on this head. Pakistan, Egypt, Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, most of the Arab Peninsula have been reduced to rags, but Turkey has been shown to the world world tomorrow, where Turkey is the only actor who can bring the Islamic world together, as it did yesterday. Turkey has proven once again the hope of the Islamic world and the oppressed, with its breakthroughs in the last quarter century, especially in the last decade. This message was clearly seen by the Westerners and by the oppressed Muslim peoples. With the depth of history, cultural wealth, the only global civilization that has managed to create a peaceful and peaceful home for all the different religions and cultures, with experience and savings, Turkey will embark on a journey of truth that will rise from its ashes again to open the way for mankind. Mankind will take refuge in the merciful and compassionate wings of justice, of justice, of peace, of brotherhood, of truth that gives life to all. To discover our geography, our history, our partners, who we are, we have to rebuild ourselves and our country. They've surrounded Turkey from outside for a quarter of a century, surrounded it with fire, stirred it up inside, dragged it to the brink of civil war, trying to bring Turkey to its knees. So the process we're going through is the final process of future and future struggle. That's why we call what happened the final phase of our century's war of independence. That's why we call it the last war of salvation. This is why Turkey's state mind, political mind, power and perspective are being targeted, and its attempts to destroy our nation's dreams. That's why one attack after another, intervention, scenarios are being initiated. They'll never make it, they'll never get this country on their knees, they'll never weaken the main backbone, they'll never stop the great march of Turkey, they'll never be able to operate for another country; if they do, they'll be humiliated, exhausted, exhausted. With these feelings, I offer all our martyrs the grace of God, the swift healing of our wounded, and the respect of all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0010par0056	Thank you, Mr. Gökçe. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one minute before I go on the agenda, I'll make a brief commitment to the first 15 members of parliament who enter the system. We'll start in order. Mr. Gürer, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0011par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. The town of Sultanhani, Aksaray Province, has been homesick for 50 years. The town of Sultan Khan is on the ancient Silk Road, which stretches from Tebriz to Kayseri, from Kayseri to Konya. One of the largest caravans in the world has been built about seven centuries ago by Sultan Alaettin Keykabat. Around 400,000 tourists come to town every year. Sultan Khani is one of the largest cities in our country, with its population approaching 12,000. It is also the center of population activity that has reached 20,000 with the presence of factory facilities. There are 50 carpets, restorations and conservation workshops in the town. Sultan Khan is also world-famous in carpet restoration. Since Aksaray is 30 miles [45 km] from the city center, we have a town that deserves to be a county with its assets. It has been a municipality since 1953. Sultanhanı is a town and is a great expectation of the people. We've also made an offer of law on this matter. I demand that Sultan Khan be made a county immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0012par0066	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0013par0068	Mr. President, the province of Adana holds an important place in the production of corn with over 1 million tons per year and the advantage of the early harvest season. The harvest season of 2016 began before the normal season, which played an active role in the production of Turkey's corn, but the harvest continues. Market prices in Egypt are below last year's figures. The land crop office has begun to take escrow in all its branches, but has not yet announced the price of corn purchase. The purchases seem to be in favor of the farmer, but the price uncertainty is causing concern for our producers. Our farmers who harvest their crops with great difficulty need cash to pay off their debts. The manufacturer must not be abandoned to brutal market conditions, the Earth crop office must prove that the farmer is a black-day friend and explain the price of corn purchases as soon as possible.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0012par0070	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0014par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 96th anniversary of Sevr Agreement, the plan of the Crusader alliance. The Sevr alliance, which broke up the Ottoman Empire and aims to exploit the new Turkey, is also expected to continue today. Today, the Sevr project is under the leadership of the PKK, ISIS, DHKP-C. The attempted July 15th attempt of the terrorist organization is a treasonous coup, aimed at chaos, in order to achieve the goal of exploiting our country, just as it did in Sevr. Imperialism has carried out its exploits on our country by means of a blood-soaked terrorist organization that has caused instability to our country. It is clear that it will be eliminated by maintaining and strengthening economic and political stability, to retain national will against occupation and attacks. On this occasion, the common understanding of our House vs. the coup...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0015par0077	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0016par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate the 101st year of the Anafarta Victory, which is the turning point of our independence and republic and has become history's military genius Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. In addition, the third airport in my constituency, Istanbul, Albaniaköy, and the same area use the local and urban routes as a route of passage to the construction site and to the dump site. The passage of 7,000, 8,000 trucks per day in the Kullköy-Bolluca Road and İstliklal neighborhood has made life unbearable for our citizens living in the region; people cannot open their doors, cannot go out on the street, and security and danger for all citizens and especially children is very serious. The talks of the Republican People's Party, the efforts and interests of our Albanian village district president -- the mayor, the sub-membership -- have failed. I'd like to tell the relevant ministries here again about the indifference of the issues and the insensitivity of our people's right to live safely and comfortably.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0017par0084	Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0018par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Reports are coming in from every city, every institution, now returning to race and witch-hunting from every city in the country. With false and defamatory tips, corporate bosses are turning this situation into an opportunity to waste people they don't like, people they don't like, people they don't like. They're the ones that need to be questioned, the whistleblowers, and the people who make these applications. For example, members of trade unions such as Eastkan Dülger, Halil Aman, Ismet Shipci, Gürsel Dirik, Emel Longer, Assoc.ent Dr. Ağca, patriot, Ataturkian Thought Society member, are being tried to be hurt. Stop these suspensions, which turn hundreds of people from water, free of law and conscience, into social genocide.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0017par0088	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0019par0090	I'm asking the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs: Our Light Dam, located within the borders of our Denizli Cirril district, is running low on water, so the garden and grain products can't be watered enough. The lack of water from the Light Dam appears to be based on two reasons. First, we want the dam to be cleaned; second, we want another channel parallel to the water channel from Dinar, and third, we want it to be watered from this pond by building a pond on Akçay Creek, which comes from the foot of Akdağ. Are you prepared for such matters as the Ministry? What kind of projects have you developed? Do you have any preparation for the restoration of the Lighted Dam? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0017par0092	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0020par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Once upon a time, we were one of seven self-sufficient countries, and because of the wrong agricultural policies, we are now a country that imports hay from abroad. The village chief I met at Kayseri, many of our citizens from Tomarza County, stress that the office has not taken its wheat. Our already struggling farmer is even more victimized, unable to produce. At this point, I'd like to ask Mr. Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting: Do you have any interest in remitting the debt to banks and agricultural loans of our farmers who are left behind and can't pay their debts? If you don't have that kind of work, you should know that our farmer, whose numbers are getting smaller by the day, will soon be completely destroyed. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0021par0099	Mr. Akadun...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0022par0101	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, reports from Antalya and other counties suggest that the OHR practices are, in their universal terms, the size of witch hunting. For 14 years, I've invited politicians who have infiltrated the state to avoid paranoid thoughts and act more justly. In particular in the past, I invite our Minister of Justice to act justly. While there are many people living arm in arm and arm, people have been arrested only because they have enrolled their child in the schools or because Bank has opened deposits in Asia. If this situation doesn't end soon, there will be serious social, psychological problems. I certainly wish that the State of Emergency would not be extended for more than three months. The belief that the government is seeking unnecessary political power as an excuse for the coup attempt is increasing in society. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0021par0103	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0023par0105	According to the State of Emergency, military schools have been closed, where they are called children, and many underage students have found themselves in front of the door. These children and their families, mostly small and middle-income, experience a great deal of loss and fear. The state of the students who study there remains uncertain with the closing of the harp schools. This problem can be solved not by shutting down institutions, but by finding a legal solution to those institutions within democracy. I'd like to extend my regards to you as we call upon the immediate removal of the measures to address the victims and forsaking these wrong approaches.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0021par0106	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0024par0108	Dear President, today in the press, I came across information that I'd like to believe is not real. That was a statement made by Mr. Metiner, a member of the Human Rights Review Commission. They made a statement that a slap or two would not be counted as torture for those caught because of the recent incident. However, I believe that a friend of ours who is part of the Human Rights Review Commission should be extremely careful in the field of human rights. Torture within the state of law, even if it's the State of Emergency, is strictly forbidden. It reminds me of that once again, and I want to express my desire to believe that this information does not reflect the truth again. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0021par0110	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0025par0112	Thank you, Mayor. On the 7th of August, when the people were united against the coups, the unity, unity, and brotherhood were cried out, there was a racist, show-off at Bayburt. Kurdish youth who arrived in the city for the Bayburt University Gym Education Sports University talent exam were asked to be lynched on charges of PKK propaganda. On August 7th, the rumor that students from Iğdur came from the university for their talent exams in the dorm where they stayed -- only rumored -- became racist attacks. The assailants set fire to the vehicle the young people took to take the test. The government, especially the President, and the so-called opposition, have also resulted in lynching Kurds, as well as the public reflection of their policies to ignore Kurdish will, which received 6 million votes. In his statement on the matter, the governor of Bayburt defended the fascist attack as a public reaction. There's no incident, there's no action, so the public will react. He showed that he was with racist attackers, saying that the people's response was that he would be exposed to the attack and that the cars would be with the students who were burned. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There have been numerous attacks on Kurdish provinces or vehicles from Kurdish provinces. I strongly condemn those who aided the attack and attacked the students who came from Iğdur to take the exam.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0026par0116	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0027par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. The subcontractorate of the Republican People's Party's election declaration has been adopted, the subcontractors have been announced with good news, but a year has passed, and for some reason, it doesn't come up. 720,000 subcontractors are now expecting a staff. Following recent operations, the need for staff in the public has increased, and opportunity has arisen to fill that gap. A consensus of understanding has formed between Turkey and us. The government must bring this proposal before the Turkish Grand National Assembly takes a vacation. The delay of the legal arrangement will lead to new victims. For example, 30 subcontractors at Giresun University, who is running branch services, were assigned to cleanup services, which the government said would take on the original job description. Workers claim that they were being mobbed and forced to be laid off, that the conditions for replacing new workers were created. The government requires that institutions be prevented from processing the subcontractor until the law is passed. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0028par0121	Mr. Hero...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0029par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. A five-year sentence on crimes committed prior to January 1, 2016 was issued in today's press, in which a decree was issued for a reduced sentence for execution. Is the scope of this forgiveness in a sense clear? Will the arrangement cover the rapes? Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0030par0126	Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0031par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. The recent deployment of military areas is on the agenda. In particular, military High School of Towers, Hasdal and Tuzla, and green areas, talks about areas such as Air War School, GATA, are of concern and concern for all of us as to what military and structures will be in these conditions. We are concerned that the owner of a company that has recently contributed a great deal to deviant urbanization in the newspapers has expressed some thoughts about building the site -- used as a former golf club in Levent. The deployment of military areas that have green areas would be a massacre. Military areas to evacuate are required to be considered a green area and to be opened to the public. Green spaces should not be eliminated by Rant-purpose policies. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0032par0131	The last speaker is Mr. Toğrul. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0033par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it's been ten months since the Ankara Station explosion today. I honor the peace doves we lost in the explosion. On that day, the forces of labor and democracy flowed to Ankara with peace right now. Today, in the past few days, it has become clear how important peace once again is. Those who cause the slaughter of doves of peace are in fact those who share the slaughter of peace in Turkey. However, the responsible have not yet received the necessary punishment, and the responsible have not yet appeared. I'd like to invite the Minister of Justice to do his part as soon as possible to find out who's responsible for this incident. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0034par0137	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to make a promise to the vice presidents. There's no deputy leader of the nationalist movement group, so he can use it if he wants to when he gets here. Mr. Sky, let's start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0035par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're getting some sad news from Şırnak again today, and unfortunately we have a lot of martyrs. By sharing all the sufferings of the relatives of these martyrs, we ask God's mercy to all of them, and my condolences to our nation, and to our wounded soldiers, and to our security guards, I pray for immediate healing. A hundred years ago, Turkey gave martyrs. Today is the 101st anniversary of the victory of the Anafartas, the turning point of the Çanakkale Black Wars. A hundred years ago, during the most difficult conditions of the battle of bayonets, our army under the command of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk drove out the enemy forces and sent them back so that they would never return. Therefore, we give thanks to all of our heroic soldiers in this war that took place a hundred years ago, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. August 10th is one of the days of the national union of our heroic nation, whose heart is full of love for imperialism. This day has a very special meaning. The Republic is built with all this suffering, the blood of the martyrs, and we will not allow anyone to take it away from us. By returning to our founding settings, I would like to thank you for renegotiating our heroic soldiers in this war a hundred years ago in order to bring our country back to peace without leaving the path of Ataturk.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0036par0149	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0037par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we honor and thank you once again for the 102 lives that died in the Gar explosion in Ankara. Although a ten-month period has passed, there is still no distance in the investigation, the background of this massacre has not been illuminated, the relations of some structures within the state and ISIS have not been compromised. So, unfortunately, from all over the country, the ISIS attacks and the brutal massacres have continued so far. Once again, we remind the government of their responsibilities as the Democratic Party of Peoples. Mr President, yesterday a very important meeting was held between President Erdoğan and Putin in Saint Petersburg, Russia. As the People's Democratic Party, we say that we support all relations in foreign policy, in peace with neighbouring countries and peoples, based on co-operation, but we stress that these relationships are on certain values and certain principles from day one. Remember, after a Russian fighter plane was shot down on November 24, 2015, we consider both President Erdoğan and Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu and the AKP officials' unprincipled and inconsistencies to come out and deliver messages as if nothing had happened, and that our country and our people had a humiliating foreign policy sense. During that period, our people paid a huge bill for false attitudes, from tourism, agriculture, to many sectors in the economy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0038par0157	I'll give you an extension, Mr. Baluken. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0037par0159	... Up to many dimensions of economic life, President Erdoğan and the AKP paid a large price for this country, with the help of President Erdoğan and the AKP being paid a great price. Now, we'd like to say once again that we regret that the same unprincipled attitude has been displayed without the fundamental wrongs in foreign policy being placed on the table. While summing up yesterday's Russian policy, what was Russia doing in Syria? Today, Russia is the most important actor in the political solution in Syria. So all of these inconsistencies, inconsistencies, the conflicting approaches that have been established show that AKP still has not learned the right lessons from these current crisis processes, and that it has not handled foreign policy properly. So today, our group has a research proposal... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to say that we expect support from all political parties to present to General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0039par0163	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Mush, we're turning on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0040par0167	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Turkey is taking important steps in foreign policy. Yesterday, important talks have been made in Russia, headed by our President, and important decisions have been made. These are steps to strengthen and strengthen the interests of our country's future. In this sense, we, the AK PARTY government, have to take steps at the point of our country's interests, at the point of our country's interests, and never, ever, ever, again, will we back down in the process after that. In view of the facts of our region and the world, he says we will not hold back from taking steps to bring our country to maximum, to solve problems in our region, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0041par0170	Thank you. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are two motions for a parliamentary investigation. I'll have the motions read separately. Since the parliamentary survey motion I will read in the first place is more than 500 words, a summary of the motion will be read, but the full text of the motion will be included in the journal. A) Parliamentary Research Proposals Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the shortcomings of the Qur'an courses, particularly the audit, and to develop solution proposals, we provide the need for the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of our Constitutional Council. [[Ankara]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 6) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Edirne]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Hatay]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Edirne]] [[Hatay]] [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] 23) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] Today, religion education is conducted by the National Ministry of Education, the Koran courses, and the President of the Religious Affairs, a constitutional institution that has collected all religious services, especially mosques. The Qur'an courses, organised to teach reading because of the Qur'an, to memorize the time, verse, and prayer for Islamic religious meetings, to teach the worship and moral foundations of Islamic religion, depend on the Dianet. The Ministry of National Education was also a public institution responsible for the control of these institutions until 7 April 2012, and at this time, the Ministry of Religious Affairs was terminated by the amendment to the Education and Teaching of the Kur'an Schools and the Council of Student Homes and Lodges, as well as by the control of the MEB. With the same arrangement, the requirement for the first courses of the Koran in the winter Koran has been lifted, as well as for the first class in the summer Koran courses. Following this change, the number of Koran courses and the number of participants increased. According to the latest data of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, there are 1,116,509 students in the centre of 15,457, with 36,576 staff in 40,432 classes. 17425 of the teachers are temps. Most of these personnel are not qualified to train in the Koran course. With the National Ministry of Education's supervision, supervision, lifting the age limit, then a year's suspension of education for memory training, the number of unauthorized illegal schools in the Madrasa style has rapidly increased, and the curriculum has begun to be implemented. In 2008, two painful incidents that we experienced just a month ago revealed serious control issues related to Koran courses. On August 1, 2008, 17 of the girls of the girls' students died in the wreckage because of the gas blast from the LPG tank in the garden to the kitchen and bathroom area because of the gas leaked into the building because one of the students who stood up for the morning prayer was hit by an electric switch. The facts after the incident showed that neither the Ministry of Education nor the Ministry of Religion had audited the place, which was an official home, but which operates as a Koran course. Officials' statements have been clear evidence of total chaos in this matter. Our recent incident was the fire in the Koran course of Kulp Mufütü on 1 December 2015 in the village of Karamağ, in Kulp, Diyarbakır Province, Turkey. Six of our children were killed in this fire, and six others were injured. The study found that the fire was caused by the cable from the electric heater, which the children sometimes burn at night, due to lack of heating. In the fire, the burning bodies of the students who were unable to get out because the door in the room was not opened were found outside the balcony door. Even though it belonged to the Kulp Mufti, it also turned out that the course was not staffed and that the honorary imams were teaching; that the lower level of the school building, where 20 students were staying, was used as a condolence. Some of the children who died in the disaster were also found to attend Koran courses, while they were supposed to continue their studies in schools as part of 12 years of mandatory education. As you can see, both the legal and the fugitive of the Koran courses have a serious lack of control. In order to determine the shortcomings of the Qur'an courses, particularly the audit, and to develop solution proposals, we would like to propose the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of our Constitutional Council. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the problems of the assistant class of services staff and to determine the measures that can be taken and the arrangements to address these problems, I respectfully submit the Constitution's requirements for the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBMM Institution. 1) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] 7) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 11) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 12) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Osmaniye]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Mercury]] [[Ankara]] 22) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Sakarya]] [[Ankara]] Although there have been serious problems with the rights of the civil servant staff, who served in various titles under the status of a civil servant, whose number is about 180,000, these problems have been resolved, for some reason, not even brought to the agenda. The YHS staff, signed by the officers' unions and the government in 2005, are also disappointed that the statement was not kept as a pledge made by the AKP governments, which said, "Procession of untested appointments, according to the educational status of those in the aiding services class," according to other service classes. In addition to failing to meet the expectations of a class change, auxiliary service class personnel suffer from lack of additional indicators, lack of additional payment and special service compensation rates, being forced to do other service classes' work, and not being properly used for promotions in the mission. The changes made in State Officers' Law No. 657 have often been carried out by subcontractors, which have been described as public institutions and subsidiary services in recent years as being possible for subcontractors. This also occurred as a result of the implementation of tasks belonging to OHS personnel, other service classes (GiH, TH, SH) in institutions. The lack of additional indicators of nine of the 10 service classes set for government officials, while the lack of additional indicators of the auxiliary services class alone, causes the monthly wages and pension rights of NHS personnel to remain at low levels (age pension and pension bonuses). At the same time, it is also known that under the minimum living standards of all officers, the salaries of the assistant class of services staff are at the lowest level of salary. NHS personnel are usually employed by institutions that do not fit the position of staff. In legal regulations, the lack of precise limits of their duties on the title base makes it possible for the assistant staff to be considered employees who will do almost anything. Some tasks and tasks that have no legal basis have been made available to assistant staff over the years, have caused these tasks to be identified over time with the titles of those involved and those who do not want to do these tasks are considered problematic personnel. The rise in the mission provides objective opportunities for the higher titles of state officials within the scope, while the access to YHS personnel is not affordable. The institutions usually go to recruitment of personnel through the appointment for the first time (e.g., computer operator, technician, etc.) and are not allowed to increase the position of NHS personnel. It is imperative that parliamentary research be opened in order to determine the measures and arrangements that can be taken to address the problems of the assistant class of service personnel. It has been presented to your knowledge. There's a motion to open a general meeting, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Batman: Sason, Kozluk; Mush: Varto; Diyarbakır lice, Silvan, Sur, Bismil, Yenişehir, Hani, Hazro, Dicle; Haqakari: Yüksekova; Şırnak Cizre, Silopi; Mardin: Dargekit, Denk; Elazığ, but the curfew declared in the provinces has caused violations of basic rights and freedoms and violations to even the rights of our civil citizens. As part of these events, we demand and respect the Constitution's need to open a general discussion under Articles 98, 101, 102 and 103. 16.12.2015 [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Adana]] 8) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] 13) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] 14) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Slap]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] 25) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] In a period of about four months from 16 August 2015 to 11 December 2015, curfews have been declared in 17 districts and curfews are still under way. Due to the curfews declared, human rights and freedoms have reached irrefutable levels. People living in areas where curfews have been declared have failed to meet their mandatory needs, and as the curfew has begun, the Internet and telephone have been cut off in the provinces and districts, and no electricity or water has been provided to cities and towns that have been disconnected from the outside world. With the curfew, people couldn't even perform their rituals in accordance with their religious beliefs. Cemile's body was buried in the freezer at the home of Cemile after being killed in the home of 13-year-old Cemile Arakga in Cizre district of Şırnak province. Based on this painful incident, we're seeing how the curfew has caused a psychological collapse on humans, and how much this collapse has taken, so we're all seeing the extent of the violation of human rights. And the right to housing, which we call the basic human life requirements, has been taken away by the destruction of our people's homes in the area. On the basis of media reports and public announcements, citizens living in areas where this ban has been declared have been deprived of all basic life requirements. People are at risk of being shot and killed by their families because of operations between their homes. Since 14 December, many educators have left the districts of Şırnak province following the curfew declaration in Cizre and Silopi districts of Şırnak province, following the announcement of an internal training seminar with the SMS that came to the teachers. In this case, the student's right to study was also taken away from the teacher's fear, violence, hatred. Following a statement from the ministry regarding hospital personnel serving in the areas where curfew has been declared, the staff's 24-hour stay in office is extended to a week, in violation of the Constitution and the International Convention on Human Rights. Our citizens' homes have been shot with firearms, and the homes of dozens of our people have become unusable during the shootings. Citizens affected by conflict, material, spiritual, psychologically affected have been forced to emigrate by disposing of their housing rights. The European Convention on Human Rights and Constitution of our people who were subjected to this exercise as a result of curfews taken by governorates and subsidiaries against the Constitution. In view of the rights violations and the persecution of the people of the region in which curfew has been declared, it is necessary to open a general discussion under Articles 101, 102 and 103 of the Constitution to assess the issue in the Grand National Assembly without delay, in order to determine the reasons and solutions of this situation, as is today. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open general discussion and parliamentary research will be held at the appropriate time. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday/8/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. The AKP, number 10/237, which is part of the section 10/237 of the Turkish Parliament's agenda for General Assembly and Assembly Research, has been proposed to co-operate with the General Assembly on Wednesday 10/8/2016 in order to prevent the people from getting hurt by bankruptcy policies and to establish structural political changes. The first speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party's group proposal is Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan. Mr. Tan, come in. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0042par0382	Thank you, sir. Mr. President, I've come to tell you about the 14-year-old foreign policy of the AK PARTI government, but thank God there aren't any AK PARTY friends here; there aren't 10 people in all. It wouldn't have made any difference if it had all been there. I have two friends who are very old and close, who raise their hands immediately, but they object most of all, but when they object, they don't say anything properly. Dear friends, I don't intend to start with the camaraderie of this business in the remaining nine minutes, but let's start with 2002. What happened in 2002? WHEN the EC PARTI came to power and came to power, it was said: "The foreign policy of Nacmuttin Erbakan (; his stand against the United States, England, Israel, global capital was a national vision shirt; we took off this national vision shirt; we divorced three people, and sailed into a new world. This new world supported new power with all its power. While Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan was not Prime Minister yet, he was accepted by the President of the United States -- because of the footplays at that time and because of the obstacles in the Election Law -- and his friends, who were not members of parliament, were accepted at that table as well, and were presented to all Turkey as a huge success. In the same way, the World Jewish Congress gave its biggest prize to the President today as the first Muslim leader, and then Turkey began to take all the important steps on its way to the European Union, beginning to make these changes, more or less. So, what happened? You know, when we were young, there was a song called "All Loves Are Sweet Heads," there was a pop music song, fantasy. This love ended in court, ended in the police station. I don't have to go into it again and again, but after the Arab Spring, it all went downhill. For years, the opposition in the Arab world exploded, first in Tunisia, then in Libya, then in Egypt, Syria, Yemen, Gaza, everywhere, and during a very short period of time, during five or six months, in Libya, Tunisia, and Egypt. That's when it happened, the dawn of political power. The idea was that we, the Islamic world, have already been in captivity for a hundred years, dominated by global forces. Together we can build this Islamic geography, Africa, Asia, a new world, and build a new policy. I told you yesterday, there's a people's word for what doesn't want to die. It's said in three or four ways, and I don't want to go into them. But I wish we had a prepared, scheduled, projected, staffed preparation. If we could tear apart this crazy shirt of imperialism in Africa, in Asia, and in all Islamic countries, and stand up as a force with a proper road map. So, what happened in the process, dear friends? So, there was the incident with the Blue Marmara, the incident with the... Halid Meşal Gazan Hamas, leader of the Hamas, was removed from Damascus when he was under the control of the Baas Party in Damascus, the operation was taken to Qatar, the operation began, but after a while Halid Meşal couldn't find a place to go, we said to the friends who were riding in the Blue Marmara, "We told you to get on?" Let's get to the near term. Syria has recently become a mess, especially since the recent disputes and forks with global forces over Syrian policy in the Middle East. 7 million people, even close to 8 million people, were forced to migrate -- 40 percent of the country -- and more than 400,000 people lost their lives. The Kurdish issue couldn't be solved; it couldn't be solved inside; it couldn't be solved in Syria. A Rojava issue has arrived, has locked up all Turkey's domestic politics, foreign politics, Middle Eastern politics. I told Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu on the day that Mesut Barzani arrived in Diyarbakır, at the dinner in his honor -- I sat side by side on the table -- during the period of those sweet months, honeymoon days. He was alive, and I was alive, and I was with Egemen Donation, and on this side was Mr Barzani's brother. We discussed it at the table for an hour, while people were eating, and we argued.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0043par0390	There was also Figen Yüksekdağ at another meeting with Barzani.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0042par0391	Let's do what I say, and then we'll eat the blood pressure, and then we'll eat it.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0043par0392	Ertugrül Furçcu will solve this problem!
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0042par0393	You laugh but laugh at misery, Nurettin. You laugh at misery, you laugh at misery. Look, I'm talking about a mess here. As a Kurd, I wish you'd said what I said then. You're already screwed by this know-it-all weather. The poet says: "These good weathers have ruined me. " The power has already ruined you. Listen a little bit, look, where you went wrong, what happened, why all this has come to this. And before you came to power, Tuncer said that in March 2002, in a symposium at Harp Academys, ▪ Turkey is not obliged to the European Union; Russia, Iran, a new world is built with Iran. • Ismet Innu said that on 16 April 1964 -- you don't read history, but look at Uncle Bari Google -- that a new world is set up and Turkey takes its place. After the Johnson letter, the American President Johnson wrote it, the Ismet Innu said this on 16 April 1964. You turned around, and came to April 16, 1964, and came to March 2002, to Tuncer's sword. So, what happened these 14 years? 68 generals were brought in from Ergenekon, from the sledgehammer, and I am not one of those who say, "I am not, nor will I be." And I don't believe all those cases are empty, so let me do a parentheses. This army, the national army, was doing a coup at that time, and today it was a coup. He wouldn't! Blind people, deaf people, they're heavy on each other, and we're not gonna get anywhere by buttering each other up. The institutions have all collapsed, including the army. There's no army like this in the world, split in half, cracked like a watermelon, 200 or so generals struck the blow, bombed their own Parliament. So, friends, let's learn a lesson from this. Today, when you say a national policy, foreign policy, one day Europe, one day America, one day Russia, one day China; tomorrow you say no to what you say, tomorrow yes; there's no going anywhere from here. Over and over again, come close this House if you have to. So let's keep it clear to me, let the whole world hear it. I don't like secrets in my life, I've never had a secret meeting in my life. I've sat down with the greatest leaders in and out, legal, illegal, but not secret, witnesses, observers, and I've written them all down. Let's do it open, but if you want to do it in secret, let's follow a foreign policy for five days, ten days, follow a national axis. Believe me, if we can't do this, these tides will continue, and people will pay the bill. I'm out of time. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0044par0400	Thank you, Mr. Tan. The first speaker against the group's proposal is Mr. Abdullah Ağralı. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Akrali. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0045par0405	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from HDP (HDP) on the request for parliamentary research into the Iraqi and Syrian foreign policy followed by the EC PARTI. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Before I begin, I wish our soldiers who were killed today by terrorists in Şırnak Uludere and Beytüşşebap districts. May their place be in heaven. I ask patience for their families, and I pray for immediate healing for our wounded. At a time when the Islamic world was scattered, divided, divided, our country was experiencing one of the most critical processes in history. After the fall of the Ottoman Empire, our presence in Anatolia, which we have lived in for a thousand years under the July 15 occupation initiative has been threatened for the second time. We know what the script is, what it's targeting, how Turkey and what kind of mapping works are done in this geography. We know what kind of destruction project has been implemented since the 1990s. We know how this project swallowed up the countries one by one. We know what centuries of siege and reckoning plans they have. We know that in this geography there are occupations, terrorism, identity conflicts, economic crises, looting accounts on resources, plans for a new century of siege and reckoning. July 15th has been a legacy that will change the course of history against all these bloody scenarios. Again, this nation will demonstrate success from Anatolia, never give up, never give up, never despair; this will win its final war of sovereignty, and will destroy its account of custody over this country forever. The deal of the new door is a fine proof of that. As long as we're brothers and sisters. I invite everyone to be part of the solution to all these scenarios. Today, since there is a bill on the General Assembly's agenda concerning individual pension, I say no. I salute the General Assembly so that the agenda doesn't change.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0046par0410	Thank you, Mr. Akrali. In favour of the group's proposal, the second speaker is İstanbul MP Oğuz Kaan Salici. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Salici, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0047par0415	Mr. President, I have received a pledge regarding HDP's investigation. We have martyrs, my condolences to our nation. At the same time, today is the 101st anniversary of the Anafarta Victory. We had a period a hundred years ago when Ottomans, who defended their country against imperialism, were martyrs of our soldiers from all over the land, but did not leave the homeland. I'd like to reminisce about that. Dear friends, foreign policy is one of our biggest problems during the 14 years of Justice and Development Party's ruling. It started with different concepts in foreign policy, the Justice and Development Party. First of all, he began by saying that there were zero problems with the neighbors, which was a policy that had been laid down in the time of Mr. Ismail Cem. It was the right policy. It was a positive development that the Justice and Development Party was following it at first and continuing it at first, but it was very quickly that the leader country returned to Turkey, Turkey is capable of everything. The Middle East cannot be counted outside Turkey. Thus, Turkey is the country that determines everything in the Middle East and in its geography. There has been a turn towards the point. It ended in failure. We're back, and we've made our debacle a great deal of loneliness. In fact, we followed a very primitive policy, but the world didn't understand us, so we were alone. We went back to politics. After that, there's at least a theoretical pattern to a positive point right now. What does it say, Prime Minister? He says: "We will increase our friends, we will reduce our enemies. " In a moment, we were at the end of the talk, last week, as the Foreign Commission Committee, and I will give you some information about him. But you also have to see: we will increase our friends, we will reduce our enemies. In order for you to say, the number of enemies has already gone up a lot. If you look at the general trend in the world, on the one hand, Turkey has been following a policy of tension with America for some time; in Syria, our interests are conflicted, in some places they match, in some places they don't match. Russia and now -- the president was in Russia -- have made some progress in political matters. Now, why have we come to this? A year ago, Russia and I were already friends, what changed, and we had a fight with Russia, and then we were glad to come to this point and find out that we had lost again? Another thing: Israel was a country that had long been our roots in the Middle East, but came from a political line that he had already rejected politically, which he didn't want to have a relationship with. We got back, we had six years of hard work, and then we made a hell of an effort to get the same relationship back together. We live in a similar situation with the European Union. A visa exemption issue came up, all of our commissions worked, and we did a serious shift as the Foreign Affairs Commission, so that 72 criteria would take place, but the conclusion was that the issue of Turkey's visa exemption with the European Union was put on the shelf just because former Prime Minister Davutoglu asked for it, and he would make a bonus on it. So, we're back with a lot of issues about Turkey's foreign policy in our country's internal policy, we've gone out to the leaders out there as political party leaders in our squares; we've even gone further; we've taken the issue on some issues, especially on visa exemptions from the European Union; we've gone beyond making it an internal ingredient in Turkey's Justice and Development Party, so we've skipped the age. Now, friends, when we look at the general course of the world, the foreign policy of Turkey -- the sum of the Justice and Development Party during its 14 years of power -- no one can honestly talk about success, no one can talk about great progress. There's a step-by-step that's been done well, of course there is, and we thank you for that. We're critical of things that can't be done, and including other opposition parties, but even though the Republican People's Party has been voicing all these wrongs, so far these haven't been taken, and Turkey has had economic difficulties... you know, our exports have been dropping steadily for almost a year and a half. This problem that we had in Syria, the problems that we had in Iraq, with Russia, Israel, with the European Union, with America, with many countries, has resulted in the tensions that have caused foreign policy to damage our economy. Normally, foreign policy should be following a process that expands our foreign trade in our economy, but it should be contributing to such a situation, but it began to follow the opposite. Another point: Our Kilis province was hit by missiles for the first time in the history of the Republic as a result of the wrong policy we had in Syria. A province of ours has been turned into a place that's always been hit by missiles. We are going to pray in the temple mosque. There was a policy being followed, and we were unable to pray in the Great Mosque, and missiles were constantly falling on our heads. Now, to continue such politics, to present such politics as success, to continue such politics with stubbornness, as if nothing had happened, without listening to the opposition's voice, without heeding the criticism of the opposition, will not contribute to Turkey's situation in the future, in the coming years, and in the present. About Syria, for example, we officially supported some gangs logistically, supported some organisations. Who those organizations are... they change names, they change their attitude, they change their leadership, they change their alliances, and after a while, Turkey followed a policy that had literally remained in the classroom in Syria, where, not who was moderate, but who was actually cooperating with the regime. We've made our borders very clear to the militant crossing, especially in Syria. The Kurdish problem has become a part of the problem in Syria, where Turkey has to be resolved with peace, negotiations within itself, and the wrong policy in Syria has now become part of the problem in Syria, and we've actually become sort of regionalizing and perhaps taking some distance from internationalisation. Syria's population was a little over 20 million when the civil war broke out. We welcome 3 million Syrian refugees as a result of the wrong policy we followed in Syria. So 15 percent of the Syrian population are friends in Turkey. The Justice and Development Party has presented this as a hospitality. Well, of course, we're a hospitable nation, with roots, tradition, but why did three million people come to visit us? We didn't exercise our right to ask. When we said that, when we criticized it, we found that the friends from the ruling party didn't listen very much. For the first time due to domestic problems stemming from foreign policy in Turkey, the company established in Turkey in 2014 moved $6.5 billion and invested abroad, friends. We are a country that needs foreign capital, and our established firms have invested $6.5 billion abroad. Everything's a rose, the economy's going well in Turkey, foreign policy's going well, but why didn't he invest in Turkey with that 6.5 billion and then go and invest abroad? And that's the end of the wrong foreign policy that we've seen. ISIS has targeted Turkey directly, faced live bomb attacks, our people, our tourism, our people have lost their lives, and the risk of internal conflict has gone further in Turkey. Dear friends, let me tell you a thing or two about the crash of this Russian plane because Russia is on the agenda. Now, you're following a foreign policy that, let's say that a mistake has been made, you're taking that mistake with such enthusiasm, and then, you know, we didn't have anything to do with it at all, so look, it's the people who did it. Remember, it was November, the Russian plane was shot down, everyone's in shock. The Prime Minister and Mr. President -- Davutoglu and Recep Tayyip Erdogan -- entered the race? Now, if there was a catch behind this, you had a suspicion, why didn't you go through with the investigation, and you took it directly? I'll tell you both about the contacts in America. On the night of July 15th, in the Republic of Turkey, all political parties, a large part of our army, and our people fought a great battle against the coup. So we should deserve a thank you from Western democracies. You've protected democracy in Turkey, you've protected it. We've waited for it to be said, we've waited for an emotional attitude, but...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0048par0430	Mr. Salici, please complete.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0047par0431	Thank you, Mr. President. These 14-year-old zigzags that we've been through, we're having a hard time talking about our common appearance against the coup that we're so right about as a result of our problems in foreign policy. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0049par0435	Thank you, Mr. Salici. The second and final speaker, Erzurum MP Mr. Kamil Aydın, against the People's Democratic Party group proposal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Aydın. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0050par0440	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, and I have made a commitment to discuss the HDP group proposal. I salute your high council. Sir, before we begin our talks, before we get rid of the pain of the 15th of July, before we get rid of that trauma, I'm afraid that from the southeast, from many parts of East Anatolia, our martyr news continues to come and our hearts bleed once again, and I ask God's mercy to my brothers who drink this testimony, to their grieving families and to the Turkish nation. Sir, I'm going to take you back a little bit to history. I think almost all of our esteemed deputies in Congress are mature and old enough to remember those dates. It's June 5, 1989. There was a picture like this. It's simple, if you remember. The place is China's Tiananmen Square and June 5, 1989. A young Chinese is standing in front of tanks. One step back, the tank's moving one step, he's going one step back, the tank's going over. It was around the same time I went abroad to do my scientific work. From this point on, this event has become a heroic story in the Western media. In fact, the Chinese who stood in front of that tank were given names, such as the unknown rebel, tank man, and such heroic stories. No one wanted to know your name. Later, very later, a few years later, they finally announced his name to the press that he was a 19-year-old college student, sir, named Wang Weilin. Now let's keep this picture somewhere. Again, 9/11, 2001, there is a terrorist attack in America, and the whole world is watching. We all bear one-to-one witness to the terror in this United States, and then the Western media made a story of its persecution, making America a victim state, and making it almost clear that America now has all the rights to avenge it, and then, unfortunately, the President and the Secretary of State of State and the Foreign Affairs of the period are saying that it will fall down on that date, and then they tried to copyright it, but it was a crusade. In the region, they declared the name of a war against the Middle East and the Islamic world as a crusade, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the period said: "The maps will be redesigned in the region." And no one objected to that and the action plan began. The Middle East turned into a pool of blood, slowly. Unfortunately, there were fires in our neighbors, and we saw people falling into each other. And while we should have learned a lesson from this expression, when we should have been cautious, we suddenly accepted it and took the role when the apple sugar was extended, and we should do our part in this game, like the co-chair of the region, and we should do our part in drawing maps again in this region. And the point that we came up with is that we should not be doing any work at all, and the point that we came up with today, unfortunately, is not a zero scale, when we're using a very idealized concept like Russia, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Egypt, Egypt, with our neighbouring countries. We said that, and it sounded good, but unfortunately, there's no more country where we're okay. And that wasn't enough, but we thought we had more dignity when we got lonely this time, didn't we? It's as if we've begun to idealise such a prestigious solitude, bringing our foreign policy to the point where it's meant to be. Why am I saying this? So, over the past week, the speaker before me mentioned our impressions in the United States, and we're not going to elaborate, but we put aside the terror attacks at Tiananmen Square on 9/11 America, and we remembered our brother who ran over two tanks at the Istanbul Bosphorus Bridge. He wasn't declared a hero in the world, he was never seen in international media, he wasn't even taken. I'm afraid we've been through this before. The 9/11 attacks have been brought to so much attention that almost an American genocide has been brought to its attention, but what we experienced on July 15th, the bombing of the supreme Assembly, the administrative roof of the state of the Republic of Turkey, has never been considered by the world. Only with the lips of the Westerners, which they call "lip service," he showed himself in a way of condemning a country or two like this, but in the internal media, in the think tank groups, in the NGOs, and in the authorities' organs, nothing was brought up. We've made one-on-one testimony of this as a committee and we've been hurt, and we insisted that we expect the same attitude from you in the face of this ugly, immoral, coup attempt in Turkey, which is not the common value of humanity? Why don't you move when the Turkish right to live is threatened? But let me be clear, it's a good thing we did this as a committee, valued lawmakers. As we have done in foreign policy before, it's nothing more than pouring gasoline into the fire, believe me, but they have to take it seriously when they see a majority will that represents all of the determined Parliament, 90 per cent, and they have to listen. You can bring it from a point of none to a point of possibility, and it needs to be maintained because we really have to insist on defending the entire interests of the state of the Republic of Turkey on the other side of the ocean. And we've seen the way that political will goes there and everything that happened in Turkey is completely naked. So, what should we do, what's our lesson? When we were kids, we didn't have facilities like this -- we used to play ball in the alley, with an anecdote, with a metaphor -- in the alley, very careful neighbors, so sensitive neighbors would say: play a little further away, son, go play far away. The ball would break our window, and there wouldn't be a halo in our house. The glass of the house that really took care of it wouldn't break, but the window of the neighbor who wouldn't make a sound would come down on the first shot, and all hell would break loose. It's in the Metin Akpınar-Zeki Sarcasa films, which we've seen in movies. Now, in this simple example, in foreign policy, as the state of the Republic of Turkey -- we did it in part in World War II -- we said, "Silh in Yurtta, sulh in jihanda," so why are you going in search of Mottos? So what's the zero problem? Yeah, there was. So, we're like this, why are we here? Because we got excited, we got in the mood, we thought we were the leader of the territory. Well, that's not gonna happen. Well, they're putting us up against it today. Those who gave us gas yesterday, you're the co-chair, walk, who'll take you? What do they say today? ▪ What were you doing? Don't get involved in another country's domestic affairs. That's what we're dealing with today. Yeah, there's a fire next door, so let's keep the house first. When we keep our house, we'll put out the neighbor's fire, so long as he makes a request from us. Look, who took out the fire, how did it come out, who was guilty and who wasn't? Not in the form of who, but in the form of help. If we actually say, "my country and my nation" in foreign policy, and then avoid things that will cause bad comments about the internal affairs of other countries, we will succeed. That's the situation we're in right now. We have to express ourselves strongly. Why are we saying this? Isn't there a variety of ethnicities in Iran? Isn't there wealth there? I do. So, why isn't there a problem? It's the same thing that happened in Syria, Iraq, now we don't understand the third station is Turkey. There's the same wealth at the cult point and at the ethnitist point and in Turkey, the same flavor, but we have to preserve it as wealth and flavor. If we tickle, scratch, and pus this as a cause of separation, God forbid, there will be a very bad day for us. That's why the state of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0051par0446	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0050par0447	Sir, a positive discrimination...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0051par0448	Of course. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0050par0450	The state of the Republic of Turkey, believe me, is one of the most powerful structures among the countries of the world that have a state tradition. Thank God we made it through July 15th, but we're not gonna get caught up in it. We have to continue this without compromising the conditions of the strong state tradition. Otherwise, one day, if we don't keep quiet, the neighbors' kids will come and try to play ball in our yard, and they won't leave a glass frame. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0051par0453	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday/8/2016 (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President In the absence of 48 hours of the 410 rows distributed by the Law Bill, which is published, the agenda will be placed in the 2nd place of "The Bill of Law and Other Jobs From Commissions" and the 381-tribution of the Law Bill, which is in this section, and the order of other tasks, again, in the first place. It has been suggested that the General Assembly continue its work until the completion of talks on Wednesday (August 10, 2016) in the 410th rows of the Bill of Law, on Wednesday (August 10, 2016), in the conclusion of talks on the 410th Bill of Legislature (now) on Wednesday (August 10, 2016), not meet on Thursday (August 11, 2016). The first speaker, Mr. Mustafa Köse of Antalya, is in favor of the Justice and Development Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Köse. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0052par0470	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Sir, I have made a pledge in favor of our group proposal. Today, we propose to take first place the agreement between the government of the Republic of Turkey and the Universal Postal Union, and then to discuss the individual pension bill 410 rows. Yes, with Bill 410 rows, we plan to include public employees and dependent employees in the individual pension system for a fee, and we predict that those involved in the system will back out after a while. It's a bill that our society expects, and the commissions have been through the consensual of all groups. In this sense, we expect all groups to support this law design. I also offer my blessings and my condolences to our sons who died in Şırnak today. I hereby salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0053par0477	Thank you, Mr. Köse. The first speaker against the group's proposal is Ankara MP Mr. Levent Gök. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Sky, ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0054par0481	Mr. President, I've received a promise from the esteemed MPs on the proposal. I salute you all with love and respect. Mr. President, the valuable MPs, we continue these talks today, with the sad news from Şırnak, which, unfortunately, has been traumatized by the news, by framing our hearts. To all our martyrs in the sad news from Şırnak, I wish God's mercy and my condolences to the Turkish nation. Again, today is the day of the 10th month of those who lost their lives in the October 10th Ankara Station explosion. I also honor all our citizens who died at the Ankara Station. Also, today is the 101st anniversary of the Anafarta Victory. Once again, I remember all our soldiers with respect and gratitude, their souls, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who had succeeded in taking the enemy forces out of the country with bayonets and building the Republic of Turkey. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, we have important matters to discuss. Of course, one of our important issues is the laws of the law. Dear lawmakers, I would like to share with you a report from the European Council's Human Rights Commissioner on Turkey when the first decree of the law comes in under the Law of 667. It's important, it gives us a clue as to what's ahead of us. The Council of Europe's Human Rights Commissioner said that after making an assessment of the first decree, some of the provisions brought under this decree did not comply with the European courts of Human Rights, which had previously been issued by the European Court of Human Rights said the same thing. In this important process, if the scope of the provisions of the law, its duration and its fundamental rights and freedoms, I fear hundreds of thousands of files will come to the European Court of Human Rights. Dear lawmakers, we must heed these warnings and share them with you as lawmakers of the main opposition party. Our president, the leader of the Republican People's Party, shared his concerns with Mr. Prime Minister and stressed that the laws under the law must always come under the control of the House. We expect the saving of power on this issue, and a process, especially within the democratic state of law, without ever going back from basic rights and freedoms, must be taken without mixing straw and straw with dry and age. We are prepared to give all kinds of support for the removal of this organization, which has infiltrated the state in such a process, but within the law, no mistakes have been made, because the more victims have arisen, perhaps there will be a decisive way to this process. We're witnessing more and more victims -- the state of the colleges closed down, the condition of the faculty, students who want to graduate from there, students who have been transferred to other schools. We have huge problems, and if these problems are unresolved, Turkey could face much more victims, and on that dark night of nightmares on July 15th, Turkey could have the same bad days as it did if the coup had succeeded, my dear friends. We have to be very careful. I specifically wanted to share with you this report by the European Council's Human Rights Commissioner: concerns, concerns. My dear friends, look, how do we escape from law enforcement? Genco Erkal, Turkey's giant artist, will perform a play in Kadiköy district, the name of the game will be performed on a stage with a capacity of 250 people. For security reasons, it was postponed on the grounds that it was part of the State of Emergency. Tickets are on sale, first show tomorrow. On Sunday, the Prime Minister read the poems of Nazim (Nazim) in front of 5 million people, and now, the previous day, the decision by the Kadiköy District National Education Directorate has been made that Nazım (Nazim)'s vote has been deprived of displaying to 250 people. Now, the managers who created a painting like this are actually my dear friends who are going to be on the side of the current State of Emergency going bad or good. This has to stop by this evening right now. So, a prime minister will read the poems of Nazim (Nazim) to five million people in front of televisions; Genco Erkal (Gadiköy) will not be able to perform the play on Nazım. We need to separate them from these antidemocratic practices and those who act more royally than the king. We expect this shame to end immediately. Such a painting does not suit Turkey. Here are the consequences that will weaken Turkey's struggle with ▪ when these things grow, and that is our concern. I mean, a fair fight can be wronged by some overstepping executives. We have to be very careful. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, one of the things that's on the agenda is the death penalty. Now, I'd like to share some information with you about this. Turkey has decided on both the national scale and the international level of execution. On 25 November 1999, when Abdullah Ocalan was sentenced to death, Abdullah Ocalan applied to the European Court of Human Rights on the same day, my dear friends, on 25 November 1999 and on 30 November 1999, the European Court of Human Rights stopped the sentence. Now, it's ironic, do you know when the decision was issued based on Abdullah Ocalan's appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, and by whom it was passed, which law was based on, let me share it with you. On 14 May 1997, during the Welfare period, Mr. Necmettin Erbakan was appointed as Prime Minister of Erbakan. Under the protocol, Abdullah Ocalan applied to the European Court of Human Rights on the basis of this law imposed by Necmettin Erbakan, and the European Court of Human Rights halted that execution on the basis of this law. Now look where we've come to. Was Najmudtin Erbakan correct in his law at that time, before Apo was captured? He was right. Because there are real conditions for running the government. If you want to integrate all over the world, you have to apply international laws and laws that apply all over the world in your country. Nejmudtin Erbakan and his government did the right thing that day in terms of integration into the world. Later, after this picture was done, the government halted the execution on January 12, 2000, and on 3 October 2001, the death penalty for terrorism, war, and the very near war was lifted. The AKP later came to power, on 17 September 2003, under the European Convention on Human Rights, a No.6. There is a Lu Protocol, and we had put that protocol in a recession, and that protocol was lifted from the AKP government, dear friends, and in the end, on 7 May 2004, terror, war, and the very near war were removed, and the death penalty was issued from Turkey's legal world at peace and all around the world. Should these have been done? Of course, Turkey's acquisitor of the European Union has to be made within the framework of international contracts that we're complying with. Did the AKP do it right then? Yeah, he did right, it had to be done. Now, my dear friends, even if a death penalty comes today, the penal code does not apply to the past because one of the basic principles of our penal code does not apply to the perpetrator. Thus, we are now forced to govern our government in real and realistic ways, free of the emotionalism created by the masses. So these practices from the late Necmettin Erbakan era are no longer in the legal world in Turkey, and the death penalty has been taken out of the law. So it's a process where we have to be cool. I wanted to make some reminders of our constructive opposition to the process. I salute you all with love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit01spe0055par0494	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit02spe0055par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 124th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume our discussion of the Justice and Development Party proposal. In favour of the group's proposal, the second speaker is Osmaniye MP Mr. Ruhi Ersoy. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit02spe0056par0007	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, with today's bad news, we've lost almost 50 children in almost a month. It hurts to point out our martyrs by number. But it's really important to see the gravity of the situation. Our individual and social response to the ethnic-based PKK terror, which will most force us in the long run, should not be blinded; it must remain alive, alive, and strong. The necessary and sufficient fight against PKK terrorism must continue with determination and determination under the implementation of the State of Emergency. These days, the government has developed resistance to the organisation, we need to know that we have to be socially aware that the PKK, the PYD, the forces that directed the PYD together are continuing their programs on this subject with different dynamics. We must not neglect the other side as we concentrate on one side. Dear lawmakers, our process has allowed us to see the fact that the founding philosophy of the Republic of Turkey and the founding will have re-established a national state above its 19th century experience, with great experience from the past hundred and fifty years of historical memory. After these facts, we need to remember what the first three articles in our Constitution, which is in effect today, were saying to us. The state of the Republic of Turkey is a democratic, secular and social law state. The State of Turkey is a Republic. The state of Turkey is indivisible with its country and nation. His language is Turkish. The flag is a white moon star flag. Here we have seen how the Constitution cannot be changed, it cannot be changed and it cannot be changed. Yes, the Republic of Turkey is governed by a republical system. In this republic, there is no congregation, there is no communityization, there is no government domination, there is no republic domination. The basis of the Republic is referenced to individual, personality; civic law basically allows the individual to join the republic's system with its re-enactment by the will of the individual. The state of the Republic of Turkey is secular. So this has shown that the state system must be governed by a segregated mind, which distinguishes religion from state work, by virtue, by virtue, by morality, by a relationship between God and the subject. We've seen the President of the Republic of Turkey with a religious sense of being ordered by a terrorist organization leader by a number of focal points that have come as far as the vice president of the General Staff's office, and we've seen how religiously human beings can be exploited within the state system. So we're supposed to be a social state and a law state. By social government, of course, we mean feeding the hungry, dressing the open. Because I have fulfilled the need of the social state by feeding the hungry and the deficits, I have become a Khan to you. But the social state has to take urbanization, modernization, and social state property to a different level. We have all the respect that the Justice and Development Party is on the poor's side, but how prepared is the Credit and Homes Agency for the Lighthouses and this gap that we face today as a terrorist organization? The Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, is obliged to work 24/7 as of today. The university exam results came out today. According to the test results, we wish our children success in their schooling, but where will this child stay? If we get rid of them, are we going to fall into someone else's lap? The Republic of Turkey should not give its concern to the state. I have made a mistake with those who govern the state in their relationship with the citizen. When they have the right to say, the public must also consider the possibility of error. Another truth of the social state and the legal state is about the state of the students at universities that are now closed - 65 thousand students, 15 universities that have been shut down. I want to emphasize that 14 of these universities were founded in the Justice and Development Party. 15,000 of the 65 thousand students were transferred to graduates, PhDs and foreign nationals; garanteur universities, no problems. We also know that the institute of higher education has sincere zeal for the solution to the problem facing 50,000 students. In our meetings with the Higher Education Board, we have witnessed the sincere efforts of our party headquarters in our work, and we have expressed our views and proposals at the point of resolution to their highest-ranking executives. The main issue here, although it seems to be generally resolved, the problem that cannot be solved is the student state-changing problem. There is no way for the family to send their children to a city other than Izmir (Izmir) or Bursa (Isra) or Gaziantep (Ghaziantep) or Adana (Islamic Monotheism). They're going to have to be worked out. We've expressed our opinion to the authorities about the places in the legal, legal-based legislation of the solution, and in order to prevent such problems from becoming a social wound, especially if we take into account the fact that more than 80 per cent of the families who sent their children here are not related to it, we should not increase the number of new opposition waves and victims to the state. And then there's the administrative staff and the academic who works here. We are all in favor of cutting off the ties of academics and administrative staff who are associated with ▪, but the state must strive to separate the mind from the law and not create new victims in its employment. In Turkey, there is what the President calls a cancerous metastasy. You clean these cancer cells with surgical procedures, yes, but then, as far as we know, it requires treatments such as oncology, chemotherapy. While these treatments are being performed, the living cells are also weakened, and they may weaken, in some way, because they do not strengthen their resistance to disease. Here are all the remaining living cells, the dynamics of the body-building society and its political extension, this national unity and unity in Turkey, which has shown itself in the Yenikapap, which has expressed a new understanding that it can be moved forward. The name of this new understanding does not need to be made of propaganda material in quotes, new Turkey. When did Turkey ever get old? If today we feel the need to return to Turkey's dynamics and institutional philosophy, we do not need to use political language in the new Turkish expression. It is essential that this climate continue in terms of the sustainability of the common mind, the great Turkish state, and the community that meets with the great Turkish country. These conditions are not about identifying and retreating the victims politically, but if you have an acquistor, you can offer them with your savings. As part of the State of Emergency, institutions and organisations that perform some applications have to resort to the idea of a political institution related to developing solutions. If the administration and the administration accepts the Parliament of the Great Nation between the state and the nation, and the friends with their savings within this Parliament are able to express their views on the problems, we believe there will be much more meaningful, productive results in the work. So, the fundamental problem is the housing problem of our students, the main problem is that this is the problem of solving our students' problems without being victimised by horizontal transition, vertical transition. We, the National Movement Party Group, express our opinion on this matter to the relevant units, and we expect the government to take sincere steps in this matter by the government's government, and we salute the General Assembly with our love and respect.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit02spe0057par0018	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. The second and final speaker, Mr. Idris Baluken, against the Justice and Development Party group proposal. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit02spe0058par0023	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all on behalf of our group and our party. There is no need for too much technical assessment of the AKP group proposal. As we've been saying since yesterday, this Parliament is continuing to work overtime with arrangements that do not touch the fundamental burning issues of Turkey, which do not touch the water, which do not touch the soap. Unfortunately, with a lot of burning agendas out there, this House can't go beyond displaying with some technical work. First of all, I'd like to express the sadness we've heard from this. On the other hand, I would especially like to convey my condolences and condolences on the soldiers who lost their lives in lice yesterday and Şırnak. Outside, almost every day, dozens of lives fall to the ground, and unfortunately, we have to bury dozens of young people, and dozens of fires fall on the stove, and this Parliament does not provide a basic approach to taking responsibility for the most important tasks it has to do. We can't do any productive work here until we've solved these basic issues, removed these casualties from this country's agenda as soon as possible. Sadness, condolences, reprimands, believe me, is not perceived by society as a sign of sensitivity. NGOs can do it, political parties outside Parliament can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, they can do it, but the expectation of 79 million from political parties and lawmakers in this House is to take an initiative to stop these casualties as soon as possible, and the bold efforts are brought to this House. Look, in the two-and-a-half-year process, we did it. Their loss of life was minimized, a great hope of peace flourished in society. We're going to ask that the current table and the picture of the public order at that time in particular compare it to the ruling party MPs. Where was the public order at that time, and to what stage did all the security officers, who have been removed, come up with legal regulations? It's time for you to consider it. In our talks with government officials at the time, we said that I was prepared to drink hemlock poison for this process. We said that it was necessary to investigate how a president made decisions that would once again enter a vicious war cycle. We have given our warnings to your delegations at the point where you need to investigate, but unfortunately no warning has been taken. Look how justified our warnings have become today. If we're talking about a process that extends as close to the president as possible, a legal process that could jeopardize even his own safety, shouldn't you be looking into how such a convincing process is revealed? Shouldn't you, especially as MPs, as representatives of civil politics, as civilian representatives of the will of the people, somehow put it in your own way? Who convinced you to go back to war, blood, security policies? Don't you have to look for Erdogan or the prime minister of the period? Did he do the security bureaucracy, did he do the military, or did the parallel government pull it off when they were all tucked up next to him? Well, if they've done it, won't you be questioning yourself? Come on, if you're not going into an interrogation of that period, aren't you still going to take responsibility for being involved in this process, at least in this process, where it's wrongly done? Look, there's some serious stuff that's ending the solution process. There are two police massacres in Ceylanınar, a reference to the end of the solution process in particular. We're talking about a massacre, an execution, all dark and completely shady. Just two days before that, there was a suspicious death of a soldier who died in Adıyaman, on July 20th. As long as we don't expose the situation of those two police officers who were executed in both Adıyaman and Ceylanpınar, we will never know how this war was launched, and why it was brought to these days, believe me. Look, for the soldier who died in Adıyaman, we sent our MP, we asked for the autopsy report, we asked for the coroner's report. On the day of that so-called conflict, we sent our party friends there as human shields so that there would be no casualties. There's no conflict. We're talking about a process where a soldier dies with a bullet that's not entirely known as where it came from, and then the autopsy reports that were stored, the forensic reports, and the solutions that were intended to be corrupted. It's the same thing with Ceylanpınar. Look, seven people have been arrested and arrested for having a car impounded in Ceylanpınar. You know what? The judge who made that arrest decision today was either arrested or sent to prison on charges of being in contact with the parallel structure. The prosecutor who filed that indictment turned out to be a parallelist. Again, it turns out that the person who reported it... the person who reported the seven people whose car was only foreclosed on, two of his brothers were involved in this terrorist formation. Now, aren't you going to question it? I'm talking about the two fatal events that ended the solution process; the prosecutor turned out to be a parallelist who called it in, a parallelist who made a court decision, was sent to prison on charges of terrorism, or with evidence. So, as the ruling party, aren't you going to carry any responsibility here? Aren't you going to bring this painting in front of you just because it's over in a year? Look, do you know what changed between the July 22nd Ceylanpınar execution and today's process? In the past, there was only extraordinary state of state, martial law in the region, which today had to be declared a state of emergency in 81 provinces. We need to be bold enough to question that all these legal arrangements that have been brought in have actually opened the way for this process. In particular, lawmakers sitting in the AKP's ranks need to seriously discuss these burning agendas, especially the President, especially the Prime Minister, in this process. Maybe there's a misdirection now, maybe the security bureaucracy deliberately, just like it did a year ago, started the war to legitimize the impact floor. Maybe they're misdirecting us again to make new coup moves. Maybe there's still a presence that's sticking up your nose, hoping that there's a lot of blood in this country. We think that every single one of us in all of this is the argument that needs to be carried out. I know that many of our fellow lawmakers, especially in the ranks of the ruling party, are in control of all these processes. We also have fellow lawmakers who contribute to the solution process. We won't be doing our duty by coming in here and carrying out messages of condolence, sadness, condemnation, and remorse over the loss of life after the war deepens. So about these burning problems, dear friends, it's time for you to step in. For Sur, for Cizre, for Silvio, we have spoken for a year. What happened, what came up? Silopi Special Forces Commander came to Ankara to lead the coup, bombed Ankara, bombed Istanbul, launched the planes. In the same way, look, it turns out that all of those generals who served in the area were involved in this coup process. Now, with this painting in the middle, are we still going to stand by and watch soldiers, teenagers, cops, civilians lose their lives? Dear friends, you're in charge, as ruling party MPs, you're under historical obligation to the Prime Minister, to show the President the truth at least with strong arguments about this. Hopefully we won't be right again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I complete, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit02spe0059par0038	Complete, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit02spe0058par0039	We, you see, after the country faced the coup process, after the whole country returned to the fire site, after hundreds, thousands of lives were lost, we stood on this stand and we said this, we were right. Even when we said it, we felt no shame, we felt no regret. Today we predict that if we don't make a healthy exit, we'll be faced with a much worse picture here in months. Both the AKP government's stance and the statement from the PKK have shown that there is a search at the point of the resolution of these issues, which has still been tried by war methods for 30 years. As democratic politics, I say we, Congress, take this initiative and convince the people with their hands on guard that these issues will never be resolved and that they will never do anything but deepen the problems. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit02spe0060par0043	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Universal Postal Union (UPU) between the 26th World Postal Congress and the draft law and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 381 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. There's no question-answering process. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. REPUBLICATION OF ENGLISH REPLICATION AND THE PRODUCTION OF THE CONTINUATION OF CONTINUATION OF CONTINUATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE UNIVERSE COMMUNITY AND THE CONTINUATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE UNIVERSEMENTAL POSTA (UPU) MADDE 1- (1) was approved on November 12, 2015 between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Universal Postal Union (UPU) in Bern. No one wants to speak for groups on article 1. There's no question-answering process. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There are no speakers on the 2nd article on behalf of groups. There's no question-answering process. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There are no speakers on Article 3 for groups. There's no question-answering process. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'm asking members who can't get into the system to ask the technical staff for help, and in spite of that help, I'm asking the members who can't get into the system to deliver the ballots to the presidency within three minutes scheduled to vote, and I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Universal Postal Union (UPU) concluded a clear vote in accordance with the Agreement Against the Twenty-Sixth World Postal Congress: ▪ Number of votes used : 210 Agreed: 210. [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Members of parliament, we will begin negotiations with Plan and Budget Commission Report (1/752) on the changes in the individual pension and investment system law, which is ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 410 rows. Now, Mr. Erhan, the Samsun MP who wants to speak on the whole bill?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit02spe0061par0091	The Plan and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit02spe0060par0092	No Erhan Master. So, is Garo Paylan here? He's on the Plan and Budget Commission. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0060par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 124th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the talks of Bill 410. The commission is here. The government is here. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first speaker on the entire bill is Samsun MP Erhan Usta. Your time is twenty minutes, Master. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0062par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to express the views of the National Movement Party on the draft law on the Savings and Investment System Law, which is 410 rows. I salute the General Assembly. Now, once we look at the way things are going, this law comes at jet speed, it goes at jet speed. He arrived at the Plan and Budget Commission on Monday evening, met on Tuesday at the Commission, and we meet at the General Assembly on Wednesday. Of course, we've had our side of it, as a matter of fact, but it's not exactly the proper procedure for the quality of lawmaking or whether there's enough time for law enforcement to work or whether or not there's enough time for lawmakers to work. Now, like all other laws, a regulatory analysis of this bill, unfortunately, has not been put in front of us. Look, this regulatory impact analysis is so important that when you don't do it, when you don't do it, we have to make laws about the same issue a couple of times, maybe three or five times, because there's still a lot to come without any work on what it's going to be, where it's going to go, or how it's going to affect the private sector or the public. In this regard, I also think the Parliamentary Presidency should be sensitive to the operation of Article 5018 of Law. Now, again, have social views been taken on this bill? None taken. Social parties and sector representatives have failed to express their views on the issue, the bill has been passed through the Commission without their opinion. We know from the press a number of issues about what their views are, we know that they have views against these regulations in this bill, that workers and employers' unions generally have conflicting views, that they don't accept, that they deny. Now, this is an important issue, as a matter of fact. This individual pension law first came out in 2001, when the National Movement Party was also a coalition partner. It's an important issue, but there's a fundamental error here: it came out in 2001, and the system began to grow slowly, and at the end of 2012, an arrangement was made to start in 2013, and there was, in fact, an extraordinary increase in the budget's contribution to the system. Now, there's another adjustment being made. So we're saying this savings thing is important. Why is saving important? Because in order for a country to grow, it needs to invest, and in order to invest, the savings need to be increased. Savings are very important in this sense, but there is a fundamental error made by the AKP government in the issue of increasing savings; it has only transferred to this individual pension issue, and it has withdrawn. So with the individual pension system, there may be very small contributions to augmenting savings, but the issue of increasing savings is not an issue that can be solved through the individual pension system. There's a fundamental error, and I think it's a duty to warn the government -- we also warned the Commission -- but from here, it's also a duty to warn them. Because the issue of augmenting savings requires that we do some very structural work on the economy. So without doing this, without making structural reforms, without making arrangements to pave the way for production, without making arrangements to pave the way for investment, there's no way to increase the savings and investments without making arrangements to reduce the risk premium in the country, without making the arrangements, without taking the steps, without taking the steps, there's no way that this has to be known, otherwise we're going to have a lot more to deal with through the individual retirement system. Now, I'm about to give you their numbers to increase savings. Now, what's one of the good things about this? The individual pension system is the right thing. We say it's the right thing. We say it's the incentive, because your income is good when you're working; you may later need collective money or additional support in the later stages of your life, because the public insurance system doesn't give enough income to provide for people -- not anywhere in the world. It's important that such a system be implemented and spread in support of it, and it's good. This will also reduce the charge-income pressure on the public insurance system, which will contribute in this sense. Now, here, with the arrangement from 2013, we contribute to the system from the Treasury around $3 billion a year. Friends, this is an important amount. As important as it is, there's actually something in the system: in the previous system, there was no direct government contribution; it was a tax reduction; it was about half of the people in the system, although it had no income, so it was in the system, even though it didn't have any support. So, this is about 3 million people in the last thing, so roughly half of 3 million people were in the system, even though they didn't get any support. Now, there's a fundamental mistake here: there's a perception of a very strong correlation between government contribution and entry into the individual pension system, and that's wrong, you know? I mean, half the people in the system that were in the system before 2013, they were in the system without any support. So, what we're doing now is we're doing an extraordinary increase in the system's burden by supporting the system, giving government support to people who are going to enter this system, even if they're not sensitive to it, even if they're not government support. This is something that needs to be settled. Another thing: Now, here, of course, an automatic mechanism is being brought in, so all employees are automatically, in some sense, forced into the system. Now, especially in low-income groups, it has the right to back down, of course, but if that right of deterrent is missed or, in the beginning, the right to back down, we're going to have problems like this: especially in low-income groups, there's going to be some cuts starting at about 60 lira, and their complaints are going to start to increase. We know that when we divide the population into five in terms of income, in the first three slices, that's 60 percent of the population's savings are negative, so the poorest of our population consumes more than 60 percent of its income. Now we're automatically bringing the individual pension system into this section, and we're doing something that's going to make their income even lower. This will cause problems in the coming period, causing problems in wages, and creating wages pressure. You have to see these today. Now, one other thing, I've just said, is that the system is being tried to be raised with constant government support. But other than that, there's work to be done. I'm afraid I can't step foot in these parts. What's one of these? One of them is the reduction of funding operating costs. Fund operating costs are being taken off over international standards, and they're being cut off over this total asset. I mean, think of someone who's been in the system for ten years, and there's been a constant blackout every year of their existence. Now, I'm not going to go into that part of the subject to get into very technical things, but we need to know that the fund operating costs are way above international standards in Turkey. Look, 18 companies in this system are getting a cut from citizens of about 1.5 billion dollars a year, $1.5 billion. These are important numbers. Therefore, these should be taken into account, and there must be steps taken by the government to draw funds operating costs to international standards, but nothing is being done about it. If there's anything, we're going, we're increasing government support. Now, when we increase state support, from this part of the new system for the next decade, this part of the system, from this part of what we're talking about today, to the budget, about 20 billion dollars, 20 quadrillion dollars in old money. We also have cargo from the present. Thus, an extraordinary burden was created on the budget. So this is a serious risk to the sustainability of the system in the coming period. It has to be seen that way. Another step we have to take, of course, is to raise a fund there. Now, there are some very bad examples. People here have done a lot of damage, entered in some way in time, and for some reason, they've damaged it. Of course, we have to accept that we are weak -- in terms of what we describe as financial reading -- in general -- where can we invest better? -- in this sense of financial consciousness. Therefore, we need to take measures to increase it. So, if people do damage here, if they go to very risky investments here or there, and they do things and they do things and they do things and they do things, then the system will grow again, because eventually people's money will be reduced -- it'll be an important factor in the way that prevents them from growing up. We need to be careful with that, too. There's an additional thousand TL here, so I'm going to give another thousand TL support for 25 percent, as well as for the permanent ones in the system. The government says. But he doesn't give that support to those who voluntarily enter the system. Now, there's an injustice here. We made a motion about it, but it was rejected. So, as of today, if those who are forced into the system are given this thousand dollars of support, then those who voluntarily enter should also be given this support. I'm simply saying that we're fundamentally in favor of the individual pension system, but we're not against it, but there's been an excessive mission installed in the system. We're going to increase the deposits from here... lf you look at any of our ministers, sir, we'll have to increase the savings in their speech. That's why we're strengthening the individual pension system. Look, the total contribution of this system to domestic savings is only 0.2%. If our domestic savings are 15 per cent, 15 per cent will be able to do 15.2%, it will do nothing beyond that. Let's not fool ourselves, let's not deceive ourselves. Turkey's problems await solutions. It would be extremely wrong to spend extraordinary money on this system and just increase savings. I think it's a duty to warn the government of this matter once again. I wish the law to be a blessing and auspicious, and I respect all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0063par0025	Thank you, Mr. Master. Second speaker for the groups, İstanbul MP Garo Paylan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Paylan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0064par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're in a marathon, so let's talk about our situation as Plans and Budget Commission: We came in yesterday, and we ran into the Individual Retirement Bill. Believe me, this is the first time we've seen it and we've started arguing. We passed the individual pension bill in the Plan and Budget yesterday. They said: "Tomorrow morning, 11 o'clock." You'll have to give up the opposition until 00. We've written down the opposition at night, 11 a.m. We've delivered it up to 100. At two o'clock, we saw that he would come to the General Assembly. So without 24 hours, we're facing a law that will complete both the commission phase and the phase of the opposition martyrs and the General Assembly phase. This law involves 10 million, 12 million employees. About six and a half million employees will be forced to make clients of these companies. We pass such a law -- believe it not more than four hours -- within 17 hours, 18 hours -- with commissions, opposition sheriffs, printing of the brochure and the General Assembly phase. It's a scandal, there's no such law enforcement. So, what else do we do as plans and budgets? They said: "We have retired individuals, and we immediately brought in a 75-point bag of laws. They immediately sat us down at 8:00 p.m., read the 75-point law. It concerns 34 state institutions. So it's a bag of laws from putting in a very radical incentive system that's never happened to exist to the asset fund, from the burial rights of Şırnak and Hakkari, to the exclusion of Hakkari. In the first talks yesterday, we said: "Let the asset fund be separated, let the asset fund be a separate law." Thanks to him, they gathered us two hours ago, we had a meeting on the Entity Fund Bill, and we'll probably see each other at the beginning of the week in 24 hours, 48 hours. We're in a marathon like this, and it's a historical law for a country you call the Presence Fund Bill. Such a law is not sunk like a painter's cube, but as a result of long-term debates, it is passed by studying world examples in the framework of understanding. But, unfortunately, that's what we're talking about, guys. It's a shame we're facing such a quality of legislation. Now, let's talk about the law. Individual pension system: Why is there an individual pension system? Because governments, social insurance institutions have been weakened, social insurance institutions come in... those who have pension plans, who have plans for old age, feel insecure, they say: "In my old age, 1,500 liras, 1,200 liras, 1,400 lira pension salary is not enough for me." It's true in governments that don't have more young populations and think they can't get enough income in their old age. Unfortunately, that's how Western capitalism communicated it, it's how the individual pensioners are customers. Now, we're being told: let's do the same thing. Yes, it's been done, it's been given government support for a while, and now it's being forced into necessity. So, friends, where's the social state, where's the Social Security Foundation's support, and where's the regulation mission against different revenues in society? For those of you who are concerned about the future, go and invest money in the company. Is a state that says, "Is it a social state?" According to our constitution, we are a social state, and we have to take care of those with narrow income. It is our government's duty to strengthen our pension system, the Social Security Institution, and to provide a better pension plan especially for those with narrow incomes. We can't bond this to private companies, friends, and look, there's nothing in the law that protects the low-income. He says: "Every employee will give 3% and will retire at 56 years of age -- in the retirement plan -- as a result of 3%. So, how much do we charge for minimum wage a month? They'll cut you $50. I'll tell you that on October 1st, minimum salary falls to 1,230 TL, friends, below AKP's commitment. I've said it over and over on this bench, and I've said it in the Commission, and I said, let's make an arrangement about it, and the Minister of Finance said, "We're going to lose $1 billion, friend, we can't do it." A Finance Minister who gave 40 billion euros in tax forgiveness -- $1 billion -- did not organise a law concerning 6 million minimum wage. Now it's said to the minimum wage: we'll cut $50 more out of your salary and you'll put it in the individual pension system. It can't save a small income. Why can't he save a small income? He's in debt; he's already overpaid, he's got to get loans from banks and he's in debt. Mid-incomes don't have a habit of saving, so he spends as much as his income, why? Because unfortunately, a consumption has been pumped, and with a constant understanding of consumer loans, that we should pump consumption, consumption has always been attractive, a sense of savings has never been developed. And the fortune has always been raised on top. Look, my friends, in the first year when the AKP was in power, 38 percent of the wealth had one percent of the population, and today 55 percent of the wealth is one percent of the population. So we're rich, we're rich, 1 percent of the population has more resources than wealth. Now, what does the social government have to do? He needs to distribute this wealth, so he needs to try to get more from the higher income, somehow distribute it to the lower income, and he needs to get the regulatory on it. The government needs to ensure that millions of our citizens get a better retirement plan in the future. If you give it to private companies, the private company, the social government, it doesn't care if this guy has any income, it doesn't offer a plus money to make a pension much better in the future. Because he's interested in profit. He'll only see what I can gain. But the social government doesn't account for profit; it strives to ensure the equality of citizens, it seeks to ensure future security. In that respect, not the individual pension system, but a retirement plan based on the narrow incomes of the SGK, Social Security Institution. Yes, if there's going to be a cut from the worker, but there is also a retirement plan that monitors the small-income more, and at the same time, if this is to be cut by 3 per cent in a fund, it will be transferred to a fund, and it will be assessed in this fund, and it will be contributed in a way that monitors the small-income more. So let's say there's a greater contribution to what's going on, say, up to 2,000 TL, or under minimum wage. Look, we'll get $50 from minimum wage. How much does he make a year? $600. A 15-year retirement plan is under way. How much does it cost? $9,000. I'm talking to today's values. A thousand TL is on me. The government says so. What did he do? $10,000. Can you imagine, 15 years from now, it'll come with minimum wage; what do I have? You know, if I don't have a major crisis -- because, usually, these pension insurancees have always lost -- let's assume that you get the same money, assuming that Turkey is going to go in these conditions, of course, it doesn't create a sense of wealth, friends. You don't promise a minimum wage a fortune, you don't promise a future guarantee; we're offering $10,000, $10,000 against what's coming out of your salary. With 10,000 TL, I can't buy a car or buy a house or have my child's wedding. In that sense, a law is needed within the framework of the social security system that monitors the small-income, needs a fund. He must be evaluated within the scope of the fund. And there's an opening for our SGK, my friends. The SGC will give even more deficits in the following years. Our Finance Minister isn't here, but he's always complaining about the gaps in the SGK. Now you take this fund and hand it over to the private company, it's unacceptable. Dear friends, there's also the problem: you know, companies are making a profit account, and now they're taking $1.5 billion of funding costs a year from customers to private retirement companies, and you're going to give them new clients, which is about twice as much as the current customer, which is going to buy funding from our employees at a time of 4 billion dollars a year. This is unacceptable. You're giving millions of customers there -- a really well-worked insurance lobby, I'll tell you that -- and in return, you're going to be forced to be a customer to millions of customers without any prediction of what the ceiling is going to be, how much funding is going to be cut off. The government says right now. This is unacceptable. Like I said, we had to figure it out in our own social sense. There's one more thing. The law commands: "The company will go and deal with an insurance company, and the workers must be subject to it. " Yeah, what kind of scandal could that be? On what terms will the company agree? What kind of dirty bonus negotiations are there? Sir, we'll cut a hundred and a half from here, but we'll give you half of it. They'll have a bargain, and it'll be on the back of the worker. Is that acceptable? This bargain -- if it's going to happen, if it's going to happen -- should the worker do it, the worker should choose it however he wants, and according to him, he should have the power to negotiate against the cut-off fee. Unfortunately, there's a serious handicap here, too. In the commission, friends signed another scandal such as this, unfortunately the AKP: The opinion of workers' sectors, labor unions has not been heard in the Commission. But they made some statements from the press, didn't come in, didn't argue, they weren't invited, and when we offered him rest, he didn't rest. Sector reps were always raising their hands, but our president wouldn't let them either. I mean, we brought this, guys, let's pass. We will spend it in the morning, and the assembly in the evening. We are faced with a law of understanding. This is unacceptable. We have another suggestion. The unemployment fund was saved $100 billion, and we cut off a third of the unemployment fund from the workers, friends. So, the employer's share is 2 per cent of the employee's cut by 1 per cent, and we see that the unemployment insurance doesn't require that much money, so we don't need that kind of funding for the unemployed right now, and we don't need a very serious resource in the future. Let's not buy this worker's share at the unemployment fund anymore, and let's save it for the worker. We've asked the worker to remove this 1 percent source in his retirement, which, unfortunately, was not welcome. I mean, we tried to save our workers from poverty, but unfortunately, the AKP Group didn't go for that either.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0065par0041	That's what the severance pay will be, it'll go into the employee's account.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0064par0042	Well, we'll have to consider the employee's advantage, Congressman, but unfortunately, we don't see that understanding. Now, the goal is to increase savings. How much savings will there be here? Our society is saving about 15 per cent of the informal domestic population. Yes, very low. This sense of austerity must be boosted, especially the sense of poverty, which must be saved by rich people, middle and upper incomes, and the sense of poverty from the small income must be removed from here. So we have to take it from the rich to the poor, we have to do it somehow. But we're going to put it on a tight income again, and with the resources we're going to get from there, we're going to save up to three percent of the GDP. Look, $50 is a meal fee for most of you guys, but for a worker, minimum wage, maybe it's money to spend another day starving. Maybe it's the money to buy your kid a pair of shoes when he starts school. Let's look at it in this frame, and let's certainly oppose this mandatory cut, especially from a small income. In terms of government, I say we remember that we're a social government and strengthen these workers' retirement plans. The minimum wage, yes, will be $1.230. Regarding this, see, it is said that Parliament will close next week at 19; I'm calling all of you from here to your neck of the plague: the minimum wage falls to 1,230 TL on October 1st, come, let's fix this. Süleyman Soylu said, "We're going to fix this. He made a statement to the press, and that's not how it works." He said so, Mr. President, but your Finance Minister insists that I will lose $1 billion, and I will never do that. Look at the first piece, all of us together, with a joint motion as Parliamentary will, the first dignitaries rise from 15 percent to 20 per cent, and the worker doesn't lose the 70 euros, which is very important to the worker for the first three months when we raise the first step. Let's join hands and give the worker some good news, folks. Are you in? Despite the Finance Minister's objection, we have the will, don't we, in Parliament? Come -- we've forgiven 40 billion dollars of capital -- and let's give the worker 1 billion dollars of good news. Each community is given good news, but the worker has yet to receive good news. Dear friends, I'd like to say one or two things about politics and current issues. I'm afraid I'm going to have to file a complaint here because all of our Commissioner friends are convinced. This Hakkari and Şırnak province have been removed from the province, everyone, including the AKP Group, but no matter what, they have not withdrawn, and the Commission is still in session. At the same time, you know, trustee authority for governors. So the mayor has an eyebrow over his eye, so let's appoint a trustee here. He's going to say, "Look, the chosen one, a governor who's going to fire the chosen one." Unacceptable. Look, for the sake of security of city assets, it's a very vague expression -- the future administration I'm confiscating, friend. Unacceptable. It's like there's a state of emergency back home. Is that acceptable? You know, you said: The extraordinary state is only against the ا. But, we're looking at the fact that the mayors are being relieved of their duties... it's a coup. A governor, a Minister of the Interior, has an eyebrow over his eye, saying, "You have an eye." If there were any judgment, he could be dismissed, you know, our existing laws order this, but it is unacceptable that he be dismissed without any legal prosecution. Let's collectively pressure all groups to withdraw this bill from the Commission, where we're making our opposition, and so are you. Guys, you know, we're going through a cloud of impact. As we pass through a cloud of impacts, such extraordinary circumstances and trauma can not be inflicted on a society, especially the people of Şırnak and Hakkari, because a game has been played on us, we have been through this game many times. Ta, start with the KCK investigations, start with the Oslo talks, look at Habur. Look at Roboski. Look at the killing of two of our police officers in Ceylanpınar. Look at the bombings of Cizre, Sur. This is unacceptable, let's put this together, guys. Look, someone's still trying to break the bonds. I'm afraid we didn't learn a lesson from the coup, we see that. We know of the trauma that Şırnak and Hakari have experienced for a year and have experienced for over a hundred years, and we punish Şırnak and Hakkari as if they were part of it. Hakkari, you know, has only one economy, where the bureaucracy, where the officers live, unfortunately, has no economy other than that. It means destroying a whole city. In the same way, Şırnak has already been fed up, all of it has been destroyed from a distance, and we are talking about a city that those coupists have suggested, unfortunately, the AKP's government has ordered to shoot from a distance. If we want to heal the wounds, if we want to learn from the impact, we can't discuss the laws that these coupgers offer when they're hit, friends. Finally, the Constitutional Commission is in session. You know when you say the spirit of Yenikapi is going to hold another meeting between the AKP, CHP and the MPP on Friday, between AKP, CHP, MPP. There was a proposal to restructure the state, with three parties that the President had delivered to you. Well, that's the kind of suggestion that hits the bonds of the heart. Can you imagine, the third largest political party group in the House has been ignored, a new era, restructuring is being discussed. Unacceptable, that's discrimination, that's separatism, guys. Let's not cause this separatism, this discrimination, folks. But if you insist, if you continue to force the bonds of the heart, it's the plan of the new coupters, it shows that the new impact dynamic is in effect, and it shows that political power is once again being deceived -- in a nail. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0066par0053	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. Mr. Sky, you're in the system, please.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0067par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we find our party's opinion on a matter that has been debated in public is useful once again. Our president expressed it yesterday. As you know, there is now a debate and a study of the Commission in order to remove Hakkari and Şırnak from the province's status, instead of the province's province. We, the People's Party of the Republic, feel that we are against the removal of Hakari, an ancient city, and Şırnak, which had previously been built on security grounds, from this province's status, if necessary, should this debate be ended by the construction of a separate province of Turkey and Turkey's southeastern province. For this reason, Hakkari and Şırnak must remain the province, the Republican People's Party advocates it, but we say that if there is a savings on the province of Turkey and Turkey, we will support it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0068par0061	Well, thank you, Mr. Sky. I'd like to make a brief point of view on this as a son of that land, as a Hakkarilı, obviously. The people of Hakkari are really reacting to the construction of Hakkari. In this regard, I would like to make it more appropriate for our province of Hakkari to remain a province, but also for the province of Şırnak to remain a province, as well as for the political will and the authorities. Of course, Yüksekova and Cizre may be the province, but they shouldn't stop Hakkari and Şırnak. So, once again, as a son of the land, I would like to announce this call to the political will and authorities. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Sky. Members of parliament, the third speaker on the entire bill is İzmir MP Musa Çam on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Pine, your time is twenty minutes, please.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0069par0074	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on behalf of our group to make changes in the Individual Pension Savings and Investment System Act 410 rows. I salute you all. They both told us about our group's vice president and Deputy Speaker Hakkari and Şırnak. We just gave our opinion on the matter upstairs at the Plan and Budget Commission. Of course, it's a sad event that every two counties are made of boroughs. Of course, it is admirable that two other counties are made, they can be done independently, but making the district of Hakkari and Şırnak is not an acceptable attitude and manner of conduct. This reminds me of the 1954 election. In the 1954 elections, the Democratic Party won the highest of 60-year multi-party systems in Turkey, with 58 per cent of the vote, friends. The Democratic Party received 58 per cent of the vote in 1954 and released about 401 MPs, friends. Republican People's Party received 35 per cent of the vote, released 36 MPs. The Republican People's Party, the party of Osman Division leader, also released five MPs, and two came out independent, friends. And even though the Democratic Party received 58 per cent of the vote, Kırşehir lost 5-0. Is that the right thing to do? It's not enough that you've got 58 percent of the vote, you've got 400 MPs, you've made that county because you haven't had any deputies in Kırşehir. This is not an acceptable job, nor is it possible to accept it. The same incident took place in Malatya. Malatya didn't become a province, and our 2nd president in Malatya took away all the MPs of the province who had taken the highest vote in one province. According to that system, Malatya was also listed as the head of Ismet Inönul. They didn't make Malatya a town, but they divided Malatya in half and removed Adıyaman. The province of Adıyaman is right after the 1954 elections, friends. Then, on the way to the 1957 elections, Kırşehir was re-established, my friends. Now, it is not acceptable to build a district of Hakkari and Şırnak. We have no objection to the province of Cizre and Yüksekova, but the AKP says that since the will of the people is the will of the people, let the referendum be held in Hakari and Şırnak, we have nothing to do with our citizens who live in Haqari and Şırnak if they want to be a town of their own free will. But we know that's out of the question. From this error, we hope to return. This bill we're talking about, it's about individual retirement. In the individual pension bill, the reason for the matter says, after setting up some eulogies, it says that there are successful examples of this arrangement in countries such as Britain, New Zealand and the United States. And by taking refuge in this, it also emphasizes how accurate, how beautiful, and how important it is in Turkey. Is it really like this? In England, in New Zealand, in the United States, let's see if individual pension funds have really been in the interests of people who had to enter those funds, or have they been in the harm's way: Together with many other areas, neoliberal policies, which were spread throughout the 1980s, began to transform workers' social security savings, the sole source of security for employees, into a new profit zone for capital. The first applications for privatisation of the social security system began in Chile, and followed by Latin American countries, other countries that implemented neoliberal policies. The Pinochet regime had two legs in the social security system, which was privatised in Chile, under the influence of the coup, along with the 1980 pension reform in Chile; the first is the removal of the social security contribution paid by employers, and the transfer of pension savings to funds run by private businesses for profit. As a result of this practice, which made the workers' savings a new profit area for capital, the pension funds, fake balance sheets, or bankruptcy, turned into a toy in the market while companies expanded their capital. In many countries, social security systems have, unfortunately, collapsed. These practices, which were described as "the Chilean model," which were extremely attractive for capital, were accepted in many developed countries in the 1990s, which meant destruction for workers. America was the head of these countries. In the United States, the result of pension funds invested in company stocks was first discovered by the Enron scandal, which broke out in 2002. In 2000, Enron, the 7th largest company in the United States, collapsed with the company, which was 80 dollars in early 2001, and dropped to $0.20. The pension funds invested in Enron's shares collapsed along with the company. That puts millions of pensioners at risk. The similar situation occurred again after the 2008 crisis, when hundreds of companies went bankrupt. The government paid the community hundreds of billions of dollars to save these companies from bankruptcy by using it as an excuse to save pension funds invested in the stocks of bankrupt corporations, people, so the money invested in these companies was sunk by those companies, and hundreds of thousands, millions of pensioners sank with those companies. In Britain, the British Petroleum, a majority of its shares are pension funds, and has launched oil in deep water, which is risky to make more profits. Again, he used British Petroleum subcontractors for more profits and avoided investing in security. As a result, as you know, on April 20, 2010, a British Petroleum platform exploded in the Gulf of Mexico, causing a massive environmental disaster of thousands of barrels of oil that were emptied into the sea every day while 11 workers lost their lives. British Petroleum had to spend billions of dollars to stop the disaster, which it had caused with more profit ambition. British Petroleum stocks began to drop rapidly, so the future of millions of workers, whose pension funds were invested in British Petroleum stocks, became uncertain. Expectations have been carried out in Britain, as in the United States, in order to get the British Petroleum damages paid for by society as well as by the rescue of state pension funds. Another important step in privatisation of the social security system in Turkey in line with the Chilean model is to remove the burdens on the job as an excuse to avoid unemployment. In 2008, the employment package was completed in 2009, as the employer's share of the Social Security Agency was gradually pulled down, while some were reset for employment formats. The government's goal in Turkey is to privatise the social security system, as shown in other countries' examples, and to completely eliminate future guarantees of workers. In Turkey, the Law on Individual Retirement Savings and Investment System was adopted and initiated in 2001. For this day, 6.5 billion dollars in 2004, 25.1 billion at the end of 2013, while the state's contribution to the system has been 6.4 billion dollars since 2013, again, July 22nd, a month ago, 48.5 billion. The individual pension system is an application to deepen the injustice caused by the difference in income. The goal here should be to maintain public access and not prevent individuals who have worked their whole lives to contribute to society from their working life to living an honorable life. The state's primary goal should be to strengthen the public pension system. The incentive for individual pension should first be made public, and should be given to the pensioners and pensioners as a reflection of the state's obligation to become a social state. The individual pension system should not be like a complementary pension, but as an incentive for the long-term investments of individuals to be evaluated and moisturized in life. The individual pension system is a system where high-income citizens volunteer. In fact, it can be seen when you look at the income of those who keep paying premiums in practice. A transfer of funds from the state's tax revenues to higher-income groups is being made. Funding from all tax revenues, including low-income groups, will have a disruptive effect on the distribution of revenues. The obligatory BES application violates the Constitution's rules on social state policy and social security, freedom of contract and property rights. The bill is certainly contrary to the principle of the social state. Because social security is mandatory for everyone, indispensable, and according to Article 60 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to social security, and the state is obliged to provide that security and establish the necessary organization. It's the government's job not to contribute more to BES, but to the public social security system where employees already pay bonuses. The need of the working class, workers, workers, workers, is not the mandatory individual pension system, but the recognition and strengthening of the right to free and qualified health and social security for everyone. It is unlawful for workers to be forced to join a private insurance programme two months after the contract, which workers, workers, workers, have not signed, to cut their wages against their will, and it is against the 60th Amendment of the Constitution. In addition to all these legal objections, one important point is that the mandatory BES and workers will become poor. There will be a cut of about $50 of minimum wage, at high prices and union-owned collective businesses, and that number will go much higher. The fact that low-paying and minimum wage workers have begun to enter the 20 per cent tax division will further increase poverty. The minimum wage will increase both in BES and in the tax language, thus bringing with it more difficult living conditions per month for the minimum wage that strives to maintain life below the hunger limit. So getting into BES is not an advantage for people who work for minimum wage because it's going into BES and tax, it's a complete nightmare. With the state's contribution, individual retirement is the financing of private insurance from the state's pouch. At the same time, remember, a significant portion of the government's tax revenues are provided from the taxpayers. So the government will support financial capital with the money from the workers. It won't be enough, the Kanal will be transferred new resources to crazy projects like Istanbul, to supporting construction companies. It is unacceptable for workers to eat capital with taxes paid by workers, money cut from workers. Forced pockets to save workers who can survive in debt is not the answer, and it is not salvation. If austerity rates are to be increased in the country, the solution is to increase workers' income and wages. You don't save by force. With higher wages, by raising wages, it may be possible for workers to save money. Compulsory saving is not a proper savings and it is not mandatory. In Turkey, BES can't create the lion's share, as expected from the beginning. It also seems to be a failure to draw large capital groups into these funds because the size of the pool cannot fill the eye. Here, part of the effort to make this mandatory is intended to fill this pool. His performance, as we say, is weak. In 2015, BES was seriously damaged by close to 7 per cent. The savings of about 6 million participants melted in the face of inflation. In particular, over high-risk revenue, the losses of people who marketed this system and made the distribution of funds on stocks have increased by over 21 percent last year. Public debt in terms of TL, the loss of bonds or bonds is 7 per cent, while the low-level risk funds have lost close to 8%, dear friends. BES isn't just an investment tool. The other side of BES is also looking at social security that will touch everyone's life. Especially in the 1990s, the social security system, which began to become a problem with being a right by the IMF and the World Bank directive, is now going through serious radical transformations, mostly during the AKP era. One of the largest rings of these transformations is undoubtedly related to the public pension system, which is now being relocated to the agenda. The AKP, which came to power after the number of days of pensions and premium payments has been increased, has been busy speeding up public liquidation in the health and social security system since its return to power. One of these is undoubtedly very well connected to the individual pension system. BES is coming, public pension is being purged. It may not be quite right for this stage, but it is increasingly perceived as an important tool to speed up this liquidation, as well as an asset to all workers and pensioners, in the arrangement of the employer's obligation. The alternative, BES in Turkey, was originally introduced for very innocent purposes. Underlined by definitions such as meeting the country's need for savings, saving individuals, getting a little further away from debt, "Oh, this is not the alternative to the retirement system, this is the complement." it was released with warnings. I don't suppose there's anyone who hasn't seen insurance companies try to bring large communities into the system aggressively through banks. Many individual pension systems participants have a close relationship with BES policies that are sold in banks under closed pressure. As a result, Deputy Prime Minister Simsek recently expressed the situation in his own mouth: "It is a system designed for individuals who want to maintain the standard of life, to provide additional income for pensions offered by social security systems." If we want to make this sentence more understandable, One: The power will never take responsibility for a sufficient pension for human life. Two: During retirement, a human level of life will fall to the share of middle and high incomes today that can only save money. Three: As a result, BES will also block rights search channels in order to ensure that pension is a human life, as it is the complement of its pension, which will be responsible for the individual. After these arrangements, I'm guessing that in the coming days, the employees will be especially granted severance pay. Mr. President, there are currently 18 individual pension companies in Turkey. 14 of them are foreign, 14 foreigners, 14 years of age, 14 of them are foreign friends of individual pension insurance companies, where all employees who are under 45 are forced to be taken away by employers. The money invested in these foreign companies will be deposited in the United States, in the UK, in Chile, the same way as in Chile; we will be asked to be transferred to multinational companies; we will receive a share of the disbursement; we will receive a share of the disbursement. There will be 50 lira from workers, workers, pensioners, pensioners, pensioners who were invested in Enron in the United States, Enron in England, and other companies in Chile. If the money is missing, there will be no money to be lost again in Turkey, and there will be no way to be lost, and there will be no way to save 50 lira from their pensions, no way to save that kind of labor. In our recent history, we all know that in our country, where the Neoliberal policies were implemented after 1980, there was a collection of funds such as the Savings Foundation, the Housing Fund, how they were looted in Turkey, and then how they were made to pay back the people of this country. In this arrangement, the funds will be collected again by foreign corporations to a number of places, wild projects; there will be no end of those crazy projects; there will be no end of those funds, those funds will fail, they will fail, they will be forced to go to those funds, and they will be taken to some people's savings. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not gonna happen. We're historically taking a note here, and we're warning you right now, but if you AKP MPs come in and vote yes to that, the plague says it's on your shoulders, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0070par0103	Thank you, Mr. Pine. On the entire bill, on behalf of individuals, Mr. Recai Berber, MP of Manisa. Mr. Barber, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge to make a amendment to the individual pension savings and investment system bill, which is 410 rows. I salute your high council. Dear friends, before I begin my words, I ask God's mercy for those of us who have lost in the terror attack of our country on July 15th and in the treachery we have not seen in our history. But ever since then, we continue to offer martyrs in another part of our country. Just as the July 15 attack was avoided by the alliance and will and action of all the political parties of this House, and if it was, I hope we can all stand together as all political parties in the other part of our country and do our best to end it. Dear friends, in regard to this law, of course our friends share a different opinion. However, first of all, there is no need to agitate the issues of the law by distorting the law with some arguments, so to speak, over it. So the really democratic maturity that we've been providing lately, the fact that our criticism of the laws of each other is real, that he's on the ground, and then it's easy enough to compromise. In order to reconcile, the data we have, the data we have, the data we have, have to be real, to be understood correctly, and not distorted. Then we'll get along a lot easier. As a matter of fact, last semester we had a lot of arguments with my brother Moses and other friends on the Plan and Budget Commission at the 12th and 1st. But, now that I see it, it's really democracy, so there's been a good phenomenon lately, a compromise.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0072par0113	Bravo! It's good to know I'm applauding!
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0114	The government says, "Let's take this stuff. You say, let's do it. Let's talk again. Let's discuss it again. And now we're really enjoying it. So we're in a situation like this, as if we've reinvented democracy and the culture of reconciliation, and we're really happy about it, and I thank everyone who contributes. But, of course, some habits, unfortunately, as I said, are not easily abandoned. Although this law clearly states in its clause... it's not mandatory savings, it's obligatory, you know, in order to be mandatory, you can't get out, it's mandatory. There's no such thing. Two months later, you file a petition, you leave, or two months later, you forget to leave, it's not two months, it's been three months, it's been five months, it's ten months, you leave whenever you want.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0073par0116	Can a worker in your factory leave your fear at work?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0117	Or wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0073par0118	You'll get him fired!
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0119	That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0073par0120	You'll get him fired!
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0121	Why would he throw it away?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0073par0122	You throw it away! He can't leave the fear of workers.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0123	There's nothing in the employer's pocket, so why would he throw it away? It can't happen. Or let's say he was working at a workplace, he left work, moved to a new workplace, where there's no record of such a necessity, not such an automatic record. When he gets his new job, if he petitions himself, he can go on, and that's very important. I mean, for the first time anyone under 45 years of age... it's not mandatory, it's called auto-passion, because it's really the kind of savings funds that we've always criticised, especially in individual retirement: look, where we step into individual retirement, when we first took it out, we were falling out of the tax matrix, and that's the most unfair thing. Why? Because my math comes to 35 percent, and when I fell off the matrah, the government gave me 35 percent. So as a proper criticism, this individual retirement salt is the work of the dry. That's right, it was then. Why? Because my income was 10,000 liras, $20,000 a month, and when I took advantage of personal retirement, the government gave me 35 percent, so to speak, in my pocket, but if the income is low, it's 15 percent, it's minimum wage, so if it's gone willingly and it's self-sustained, then how much was it worth? It was only 15 percent. Well, the more savings, the higher the income, the higher the state will give 35 percent, the minimum wage on the other side, and he's volunteering for individual retirement, and he's 15 percent. That's what was wrong, it's been corrected. As a government, the Finance Ministry said: "Friend, I give 25 percent to anyone who has volunteered for individual retirement and has entered it so far. " Look, not just in Europe, but in Europe, Germany, they have this housing savings fund called Bausparkasse, the volunteer, the elder. Do you know how many members? Half of the German population, half of it. Do you know how many funds there are? 700 billion euros, which is almost one third of Germany's non-national gross savings there. Are these mandatory? No, these are incentive savings. We, in fact, have no habit of saving this kind of corporate funds, etcetera. Now, let's save it automatically, if he doesn't want to save it, I don't have enough income, and I don't think about retirement in the future. If he says that, then he can leave whenever he wants. But look, in addition to this 25 per cent, there was a second incentive this time -- more recently said -- that people in the lower income group were encouraged to do so. What's that? A thousand lira is a bonus from the state, so to speak. Now the friends say -- and they say in the commission -- well, they're given it, why aren't they given it to them, and why aren't they given it to them in the past? I think that's wrong. We're bringing in a new system here. If we want to encourage everyone in this system, a thousand lira bonus like this is a good thing. Basically, people who get used to this system... look, our people used to save $50, $100, and put it aside. But what's in it for you, I ask? Every month, 50 liras, 100 liras... most people would even give it to their housewives, and they'd raise it from the kitchen, from here to here, and they'd put some money aside. Now, I'm looking at savings rates in the past years, our savings rates are a little low. You know why it's gone down?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0074par0125	They can't do it anymore.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0126	It's still going on, don't worry. Now, you won't have to, because look, like Mr. Musa said, well, these are the funds of the oil companies; I don't know, they're going to be deposited here and there, and then they're going to go down. Guys, this is...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0075par0127	There's samples, there's samples.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0128	There's no such thing. Look, we're bringing in a new arrangement here. There's a standard fund, and people will say, if they're going to choose themselves; the employee, the saver will say, "I want to deposit my fund there. There's a fund called standard funds if there's no preference, and that fund...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0075par0130	Employers will sit down, employers will choose.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0131	The employer won't choose.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0075par0132	Don't! For God's sake, don't do it!
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0133	The company will be selected by the employer; the fund will be selected by the employee.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0075par0134	How will he choose?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0135	It will be held in secondary legislation.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0075par0136	Can he get it out with that fund?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0137	Dear friends, look, as a country, I'm afraid our savings are low.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0075par0138	He's okay, I don't mind him.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0139	Now we've brought a system like this to encourage these savings.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0075par0140	That's not the answer.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0141	We'll have to bring this for the condo tomorrow.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0075par0142	You'll raise the prices.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0143	Now, anyway, guys, wait a minute, didn't we just raise the minimum wage from $30 to $950 to $1,300, didn't we?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0075par0144	In September, he'll be in the tax increase zone. Don't!
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0071par0145	Now, look, those tax slices are also debatable, but here it's definitely not mandatory, it's an old man, it's a fact that you can date whenever you want. Secondly, it's done with a truly social understanding. Why? Friends, when I paid 25 per cent as a government, and when I first came out, 35 per cent, believe me, that's when I criticised those funds on the Commission. Why? I mean, if I'm doing it, from me with minimum wage... why is the government giving me less support? It needs to be equal, and we need to give more support to even lower incomes, because its marginal benefit is far greater to him. The 50 lira I put in, 100 liras, ten thousand liras, 20 thousand liras, not the same as the 50 thousand liras. That's how you see it. More importantly, we need to increase our savings this way as a country. And for him, it's actually a very late study, and for our country, for our citizens, for our people, especially after this increase in income, after the increase in minimum wage, and for the future, I believe that it will be much more useful to us both as a community and as an individual, and therefore I hope that this law will be good for our country now. And personally, I think this law -- like I said -- is late, so I think it's good for him to get out of here as soon as possible. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0076par0151	Thank you, Mr. Barber. Congressmans, we're going to do a QA on the entire bill, but there are no MPs entering the system. In this case, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. ANALYSING TO CONTINUE IN THE LAW OF SOMETHINGSELVES OF EMPLOYMENT AND REFERENCE SYSTEM ADDE 1-28/3/2001, and number 4632, added the following clause to the law on individual pension savings and investment systems. "Employees automatically included in a retirement plan EK MADDE 2- The EC is part of Article 28 of Turkish Citizenship Act 29/5/2009 and is included in the pension plan, which is dated 31/5/2006 and under Article 4 of the General Health Insurance Act (a) and (c), under the employer's rules. The employer can only include his employee in a retirement plan for self-accession, provided by one of the Undersecretary-approved companies. The Council of Ministers is authorized to determine business and employees and the application bases within this scope, which will be included in the pension plan when this clause is warned. The employee's contribution is the third per cent of the employee's primary salary in accordance with Article 80 of Law 5510. The Council of Ministers is authorized to double this rate, reduce it by one per cent or limit the victim's share. This amount is transferred to the company by the employer in accordance with these Law provisions, as follows the working day of the late employee's payday. The employer is responsible for the loss of money in his savings, if he does not transfer or transfer the contribution to the company on time, according to the calculation method in Article 5 of the employee. The employee can ask the employer to cut more than the amount set in the pension agreement on automatic accession. The employee may withdraw from the contract within the next two months, the date reported to him as part of the retirement plan. In the event of a withdrawal, the paid contributions will be returned to the employee within ten workdays, along with investment revenues in his account. The company is responsible for funding management in order to ensure that the contributions paid during the withdrawal do not lose value. A non-cayma employee may request a recess from paying a contribution in the situations designated by the Undersecretary. If the employee with a pension agreement under this clause changes the workplace, if there is a pension plan under this clause in the new workplace, the employee's savings and the amount of pension he earns in the system will be transferred to the pension agreement at the new workplace. If there is no pension plan in the new workplace, the employee may continue to pay a share in the previous contract, or if he does not request it, the pension agreement under this clause will be terminated. The employee must report its request to the company by the end of the month, following the change of workplace. The state shall also contribute according to the procedure and basis of Article 1 and Article 1 on the part of the contribution paid to the employee's pension account. If the employee does not exercise the right to refuse under this clause, the additional state contribution in Article 1 in addition to one entry will be added to the amount of 1,000 Turkish liras, provided it is subject to the requirements of deserving and payment of the state's contribution. The Council of Ministers is authorized to increase that amount by half or reduce it by half. If the right to pension is used, the employee who prefers to receive the savings in his account as part of a ten-year annual income insurance agreement will be paid an additional state contribution in exchange for 5% of his savings. According to this clause, the monitoring and collection responsibility of the employee contribution is the company's. The Undersecretary may decide that the responsibility for surveillance and collection is to be carried out by an institution that will be authorized for this purpose. The banks, the Social Security Institution and other relevant public institutions transfer the data needed for tracking and collection of the employee contribution and the calculation of the state contribution to the institution, which, according to the procedures established by the Undersecretary and fundamentals, will be authorized by monitoring and collection responsibility according to this clause. The pension centre and the institution, which will be authorized according to this clause, can share the data with the companies. Personal ones from these data can be shared among relevant organisations without the open consent of the owner, and data sharing does not violate legislation on the protection of personal data. As part of the pension plans presented under this clause, no more cuts can be made by companies, other than a reduction in funding operating costs under Article 7. The employee's contribution will receive a privileged employee in terms of the seizure and bankruptcy under the Enforcement and Bankruption Act 2004, dated 9/6/1932, when the employer is on the side. Employers are inspected by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security in terms of their obligations under this clause. If the employer fails to comply with its obligations and regulations imposed under this clause, a hundred Turkish liras will be fined by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security for each violation. The minister is authorized to determine the procedures and principles for the assessment of the state's contributions to the state within the framework of this Law, and to determine the commitments and the repayment of the commitments to ensure that the relevant ones can keep track. Under this Law, the minister can determine the content of the funds and bring the number limit to the funds. According to this Law, notifications can also be made through secure electronic communication tools under the procedures and foundations set by the Undersecretary. The employee's involvement in a pension plan through its employer, the criteria to be considered by the employer in determining the company and plan, the funds to be directed to investment in the contribution, the employer's contract with the company, the right to back down, the employee's employee's pension plan if the workplace changes, the transfer of the savings in the workplace change, the payment of the employee's pension plan on the end of the employee's request, the interruption, the separation of the system, the payment of state's contribution and other basics regarding the implementation of this clause. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 1 Mr Mustafa Kalaycı. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Kalayci. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0077par0172	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The bill we have discussed has made a new arrangement concerning the individual pension system, which includes a business-based retirement plan and provides an important amount of state contribution. The individual pension system in Turkey was organised on October 7, 2001, and Law 4632, as part of structural reforms during the 57th government, which also co-operated with the National Movement Party. AKP governments have not taken many years of measures to address the challenges facing the individual pension system. Finally, in 2012, regulations on state contributions and incentives, which took place in 2013, gave the individual pension system a momentum. However, the percentage of pension funds in the national income remains limited. The National Movement Party considers it important that the individual pension system is properly included in the economy, but we have criticism for this arrangement. The bill covers employees - public and private sector employees - for a fee. According to the 45-year-olds, it is expected to automatically include employees in a retirement plan and to pay a third of their primary income, to contribute to the individual pension account on behalf of the employee, to provide a state contribution on the part of the employee, if the employee does not exercise the right to refuse for two months, to add a thousand dollars in addition to access to the system, as well as to the use of the pension right, to pay the employee an additional state contribution for 5 per cent of its savings. According to our constitution, it is understood that the state wants to be released with social security provided to employees. Even though employees still have a mandatory and public social security system, a voluntary and state-sponsored individual pension system for those who want it, such automatic participation for employees under the age of 45 is not true under the current circumstances. Since the arrangement will take effect next year, the salary hikes for January 2017 will go to an individual pension cut. So employees don't get a raise in January in some sense. The employees' income is already low. So how are they going to get a cut for individual retirement? Monthly and wage is the only source of income for millions today. Most employees are already underpaid. According to official data today, there are over 5 million minimum wage employees. Millions of people are working as subcontractors, working as slaves for a low wage. Public employees don't get along, private sector employees don't get along, minimum wage, subcontractors don't get along. How can they live on the money they get? According to a study conducted by TÜRK-İŞ, the amount of food spending a family of four must spend as of July 2016 to be healthy, balanced and adequate, the hunger limit is 1,370 lira, the poverty limit is $4,462 lira, and the living cost of one person is $1,705. You know, our Ministry of Religious Affairs has declared the measure of the 2016 fitress at 15 liras. The amount of fitness set in response to a person's one-day minimum needs corresponds to 1,800 lira per month compared to a family of four. Millions of workers today are paid monthly and paid below the hunger limit. Almost all employees are monthly and their wages are below the poverty line. Today's minimum wage is the price of misery. The workers are in debt due to severe income shortages. According to the latest Turkish Union's March 2016 consumer loans report, 62.7 per cent of the consumer loans used in our country are paid employees, 65.6 per cent of those using consumer loans. Therefore, employees can only make a living on loans, credit cards, consumer loans. The workers are already burdened with injustice and heavy tax. Employees' wages and monthly allowances are reduced from month to month within the year due to tax cuts. The tax rate is rising due to the tax rate of even minimum wage, and the amount of income you receive during the year is reduced. As a matter of fact, he will receive a 20% tax rate two months from now and will receive 1.230 lira in the last three months of the year. The AKP government doesn't give a damn how it can live off the wages of employees, the monthly salary they receive. Before forcing employees to receive bonuses, bringing new loads to employees, the government must make arrangements to prevent a net minimum wage reduction of 70 liras in October. The minimum wage must be enough to give employees a life that is worthy of the honor of humanity. The net minimum wage paid to the worker must be above the hunger limit. Also, the tax burden of those who are paid and those who work must be reduced. Subcontractor work has become the most fundamental problem of your life. All subcontractors working in public have been given good news by the Prime Minister himself, but so far nothing has been done. Therefore, the government must first fulfill its promises to the workers, to the subcontractors. Dear lawmakers, savings in Turkey's economy and investment in investment appear to be at very low levels compared to developing economies. Increased savings in our country is the most important problem of the Turkish economy that needs to be resolved. The level of savings has been permanently reduced during AKP rule, and the lowest savings rate in our republic's history has been met. In 2002, the private sector savings rate at 23 per cent is down to 11 per cent, while the savings rate of the households is at 7 per cent and crawls to the ground. The AKP governments, which did not continue structural reforms during the 57th Reich, have watched savings fall rapidly for years, and have always ignored warnings. Now, the AKP government is in the wrong of wanting to resolve an important and structural issue, such as increasing domestic savings, only through the individual pension system. But augmenting savings is far beyond that, and it's deep. The government must take serious steps to increase savings as an emergency. In order to increase savings, measures that will increase production and increase the income of citizens must be taken first. The role of domestic savings cannot be considered independent of efficiency and competitiveness. At this point, it is imperative that the economy move towards capital intensive production to increase efficiency and towards high-intensity production to create competitiveness. Programs and projects to solve Turkey's economic problems and improve the welfare of our citizens must be put into effect immediately. As soon as possible, the economy of production must be transferred from the rant economy to the economy of production, production and employment, which envisions continued increase in investment, production and employment. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit03spe0078par0189	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0078par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 124th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the talks of Bill 410. Commission? Here. Government? Here. On the first article of the bill, Mardin MP Erol Dora on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Mr. Dora, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0079par0009	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 1st Amendment to the Law on Personal Retirement Savings and Investment System 410 rows. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, now we have a clear violation of the social policy. According to the bill, all employees under 45 years of age, workers and civil servants, are automatically involved in the individual pension system. A 3 per cent cut from the employee's salary will be cut, and the government will be able to double the amount of cuts or reduce it to one per cent. The right to social security and pension will also be introduced, such as education and health, with the mandatory inclusion of employees in the individual pension system. In this way, employees' social security and pension rights will be left in the hands of their financial capital. With the arrangement being run by the Undersecretary of Treasury, this individual pension system, which the workers are obliged to be subjected to, will provide a regular amount of hot money for the treasure every month. If this system comes in, the mandatory and individual fees are dropping, the mandatory premium burden is getting heavy. And to do that, they transfer it to individual companies. Transference to companies comes out of the treasury, which means the corporations' profits will come out of the pockets of the working people. Dear MPs, the individual pension system that was implemented in Turkey since 2011 was a voluntary private pension system, as you know. Looking at statistical data on those who were registered in the system, as of 2015, only 15.8 per cent of the individual pension system participants were employees and 9.6 per cent of them were members of the official status. The worker's share in the fund was 9.5%, and the officer's share was 7.9%, so as you can see, the employee and officer's ratios within the system are quantitatively low. Dear lawmakers, first and foremost, the individual pension system is forced to create a new resource for the AKP and the capital sector. According to Deputy Prime Minister Nurettin Canikli, 6.7 million people will automatically be part of the system and will be saved $90 billion in a ten-year period. In fact, it is estimated that there is much more to be saved in the individual pension system pool, including the worker/officer, considering that the 16 million working people under the age of 45 are worth 12 million. However, we have to point out another situation that has been tried to be overlooked: implementing a mandatory individual pension system and a new fund transfer to the capital sector, as well as another important issue of public retirement over time. We know that since the 1980s, the World Bank has put the privatisation of the social security system into its programme by liquidating public pension in order to reduce the social state. Precious lawmakers still have a constitutionally mandatory public pension system in Turkey, but employees will be forced to choose a second time when they are forced to participate in the individual private pension system; they will be directed to prefer the individual pension system at 56 years of age, instead of the social security institution where pension age is 65 and pensions are falling. However, the situation of individual pension companies in the world is not very bright. The return of the current individual pension system in Turkey is at a rate of less than 2 per cent of inflation. Individual pension funds are subject to serious loss of value, especially in the moment of economic crisis. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, as you may recall, along with the 2008 economic crisis, the Enron company, one of the seven largest companies in the United States, went bankrupt. The assets of those who had savings in this individual pension fund company have been wasted. Due to the crisis, a 25 per cent reduction occurred in pension funds. According to OECD data, the percentage of pension funds in the GDP was 80 per cent, while it dropped to 57 per cent with the 2008 crisis. The crisis affected the most people over 35 years of age and older because they were the first ones to be laid off as a result of the economic crisis. The unemployed were unable to pay their remaining bonuses for retirement age. The decisive factor of the U.S. (Wall Street) movement in 2012 was this mass, whose pension savings were destroyed due to the financial crisis. Therefore, in a system of capitalists, which is always vulnerable to crisis, it is possible to expect a future income through such savings to lead to serious costs. After the 2008 crisis, Greece has already begun to return from individual pension systems in countries such as Portugal, and steps have been taken to nationalise pension systems. The third account of the AKP's obligatory individual pension system is to reduce the costs of employers. In the new system, there are no employers involved. There will be a system that only employees can finance. The state will contribute a thousand lira to the newcomers, only once. At the end of the decade, it is also expected to contribute 5 per cent. The latest analysis also aims to eliminate public pension in the long term and reset the employers' contribution to the social security system. Mr. President, the work that has been marketed and disintegrated during the 14 years of AKP's power is re-enacted by this bill. The bill makes it possible for workers to be forced into the individual pension system through a contract they do not sign. Although it may seem that within two months, such an arrangement involves great injustice and unlawfulness. The condition of forced entry into the individual pension system -- social security and freedom of contract are being ignored -- is a violation of the principle of the social state in the first place. For everyone has the right to social security, Article 60 of the Constitution. The state takes the necessary measures to ensure this security and establishes the organization. It clearly defines social security rights by its decree. It is not the duty of the social government to force citizens into the individual pension system, but to improve and improve the social security system where employees pay the premium in the current situation. The need of workers, workers, is not the mandatory individual pension system, but the right to free and qualified health and social security. However, the bill makes it possible for workers to be forced into a private insurance programme and to cut their wages against their will. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have soon been made clear that their commitment to the minimum wage increase of AKP power, subcontractors and severance is a big hoax. For example, the former Prime Minister, Mr Ahmet Davutoglu, excitedly gave cast news to subcontractors. Six months passed, the subcontractors were given hope, expectations were created, but there was no regulation. When will the AKP government fulfill its commitment? All subcontractors are curious to know the answer to that question. Mr. President, good lawmakers, it's never acceptable for employees to feed on taxes, money cut from employees. It is not moral that workers who can live in debt are forced into a system to save their lives. If austerity rates are to be increased in the country, the solution is to increase the income of workers. However, it may be possible for workers to save money only by increasing wages, by raising wages. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0080par0027	Thank you, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0081par0028	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0080par0029	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0081par0030	I have a request for a statement according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0080par0031	Of course, come in, we'll turn on your microphone. Here you go. It's open, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0081par0035	Thank you. Mr. President, I have been promised to present an emergency report to the General Assembly in Silvan district of Diyarbakır province. Balls were fired during the day at the Ecoders' yard in the village of Closetdere, Silvan, and the fire that started is now moving into the village. There's eight digits in the merra. Civilians who have reached us have stated that the cannons and gunshots continue and that there are no lifeguards. We've given the situation to the Home Office officials, but the situation is extremely dire. Therefore, we offer the information of all my fellow congressmen in the General Assembly. The loss of life that could occur there can turn into a very serious provocation, especially in this tense environment. We urge the government to respond immediately to the emergency situation there.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0080par0038	We're opening, Mr. Baluken, complete, please.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0081par0039	I'm ending it, Mr. President. In addition, in the district of Karayazı, Erzurum was taken into custody for more than 60 days, including our co-chairs. Since there's no place in the police department, these friends are in a closed gym and in extremely poor conditions. So far, we've been told that only 28 of them have been taken into account. There's no way the D.A.'s making that effort. These friends of ours, who were unfairly under extremely bad circumstances, suffered a serious food poisoning yesterday. In this particular, I would like to express the need for close surveillance of the practices of administrative, property, or judicial authorities, which have been vested in them, from the powers vested in them in the application of the state of emergency. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to inform our friends in Karayat to be evacuated as soon as possible and that the detention process is over. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0082par0044	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Secretary got your note. I think if he gets information, we'll let you and the General Assembly know about it, and then we'll give him a say. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 1, we would like to invite Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0083par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the draft law on the 410 rankings of individual pension savings and investment system amendments. My dear friends, this Monday evening -- I'm a member of the Plan and Budget Commission -- we've been informed of the 410th Bill of Law on this individual pension by our Commission, and we started discussing it on Tuesday at 15.30. Normally, you know, according to the Civil Code, these kinds of announcements have to be made at least 48 hours ago, and we as MPs have to prepare for them, but unfortunately that's not what happened. Monday evening was reported, we started on Tuesday, less than 24 hours later, the bill began to be discussed, and today we meet at the General Assembly. Right now, there's a 75-point bag of law upstairs in the Plan and Budget Commission. It's very important, but we've left it, we've come here, and we're trying to keep track of things here and up here. My dear friends, these are important matters, very important matters. At a time when the country is also in economic distress, we have to do it in accordance with the way we discuss it, we have to do this task, we have to do our legislature, we have to discuss it properly. If it's urgent, let's put up with some things, but it's not urgent; it's one. Secondly, although there was a bill, it came without the opinion of relevant institutions, organizations, occupational institutions. There's no impact analysis. There's no telling what it's meant to be. I look at the general reason, I get the general reason, I read it, it says that savings in Turkey are very inadequate. Since savings are insufficient in Turkey, we are trying to increase them. I will try to explain in a moment. Yes, the savings in Turkey are insufficient. The average of 31.39 per cent developing countries in 2015, our savings as Turkey are 15.63. It's very low, really, close to half. We have a developing country, we have a savings rate that is close to half the average of developing countries, which needs to increase. We've been saying that for years, and it's always been sketchy because it doesn't matter. Today, it's understood, we're pleased, of course, but I'm looking at this law that was brought up on the basis of an increase in savings. Yesterday, our Finance Minister made statements on behalf of the Government in the Plan and Budget Commission, and I asked him, "Mr. Minister, is there a projection?" I specifically asked: "What will this bill bring us when it is passed? How much will the savings increase? He said: "We expect to save 100 billion liras in ten years, according to our friends' work. This bill will come into effect from 2017 if it becomes legal. Next year, according to our medium-term plan, we have about 2.5 trillion GDPs, $2 trillion 489 billion. Look, what's the increase in $10 billion? Three-four in a thousand, three-four in a thousand. So developing countries have 31.39 averages, Turkey has 15.63; that's not even 16. If we're doing this, if we're doing this, if we think it's important, let's make a proper bill, we'll discuss it together, let's bring something economically, make it worth our while. No. Well, Mr. Secretary, I said, "I'm sorry, three percent is an important number -- is it worth doing this work for a thousand to three percent?" Of course, it's not about him, it's about the Treasury, and he's upset, but it's about reality, and that's the truth, and that's what we're doing for three out of a thousand. And with this... what's our system? It's mandatory, it's a public foot, you know, our insurance system, everyone has to have mandatory insurance, depending on the SGK. And there's individual retirement, voluntary insurance, that's private insurance. And that's automatic... whatever that means, it says in the matter that it's automatically included in a retirement plan... that it doesn't fit into the concept of the automatic, it's written in the matter. So it's not mandatory, it's not voluntary, it's an automatic system in between, but it's an arrangement that doesn't make much sense, so as a result, it doesn't bring anything. 50 lira will be cut from minimum wage, two months must be cut, then whoever wants to remove the cut will be removed from the system. So it's going to be 10 billion dollars a year, and it's going to be three per thousand, and that's a projection, of course, a well-intentioned version of it, which could be far below that. Oh, and let me tell you something else: there's another reason why it's negative, in the last five years, the funds in this individual retirement have always been damaged, the benefits of individual retirement are underinflation. Mr. Musa just told me during his speech, there's a 7-percent loss. So, why would people break into the individual pension system? He's not getting along with minimum wage right now. Why would he be in the system, why would he be involved? What's encouraging him? Sir, there's a government contribution. Government contribution isn't enough, I'm afraid, dear friends, because that's not enough incentive for someone who can't get along. I asked Mr. Finance Minister another question yesterday, and I said to him: "If a person should pay $100 a month, pay $100 a month, and stay in the system for at least ten years -- which is at least ten years -- how much pension is he going to receive in ten years?" I said to Mr. Finance Minister, "$152. 152 liras with a government contribution. Now, you're going to pay 100 lira minimum, barely, 152 liras in ten years. Look, our inflation is 7-8 per cent a year, so in recent years, there will be about 80 per cent inflation in ten years, and if it doesn't get worse, it's going to get 152 lira in ten years, and it's going to be underinflation again. So this arrangement does not really make much sense, so it is not worth what we do. Now, there's also this side: when we think about income groups in Turkey, we're putting savings, very low savings, into the lowest income group, into employees, we're charging them, we're not forcing the higher income groups to save. A large percentage of the employees are paid monthly on minimum wage, we're forcing them to save, the problem is that we don't force higher income groups to save. Instead of saving them, we force sub-income groups, payers, minimum wagers to save money, and then, of course, you can't exceed three percent, and your work has no meaning. Meanwhile, for the same reason, the Turkish Entity Fund came up. Yesterday, the bag I was talking about is in the law, but it's been pulled, brought back as an offer, it's been insisted. Tomorrow, I don't think the General Assembly will work, but the Plan and Budget Commission will work and try to meet both the bag law and that offer by the end of the week at the General Assembly next week. Now, about that, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to brief you on the next item, but I'd like to point out that this change in individual retirement is not very meaningful, and it's not going to do much good. We'd like it to make a lot more sense. My dear Recai Barber friend just told me that there is a 700 billion-euro fund in Germany, an individual pension fund. We want to have a fund like that, we want it to be very meaningful, we want it to be a big fund, but in this way, I want to make it especially critical in a system where there's so little government support and a wrong segment is targeted and only minimum wage is targeted. On this occasion, my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0084par0070	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. On the 1st article, Bayburt MP Mr. Sahab Kavacıoğlu. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0085par0075	Members of the law, I have made a personal pledge on the 1st Amendment to the Self-Security and Investment System Act. On this occasion, on the night of July 15th, I salute the Veteran Assembly, who showed an honorable standing and unity. I wish our martyrs the grace of God, the healing of our veterans, and the long life. Again, on this occasion -- and today too -- I felt the need to make a brief statement about an incident in Bayburt, Sunday night. We had another congressman bring it up today. On Sunday evening, you know, there was a great union in Turkey, Turkey had a beautiful day. Likewise, in Bayburt, with all our political parties, with all our sections, he stood with honor against this traitorous attempt on the country. That night, unfortunately, again, according to our findings, there was a day-to-day debate among the young people in Bayburt. Although nothing else happened, during the nighttimes, as if there was such an incident, our young people were especially provoked on social media, led to a specific location, where they tried to create a false perception, as if there was a PKK raid, as if there were PKK students. I was there, there was absolutely no such incident; there was no PKK attack; there was neither our people's rebellion or rebellion in Bayburt, a momentary act of our young people because of a misunderstanding and misdirection. We were there, and we soon calmed it down. There's no such thing. Bayburt is one of the quietest, almost best places in Turkey. In 2015, it was a city that had never been murdered. Thus, in Turkey's problems, it is a city that is always on the side of our country, our nation. So there is no problem with our southeast brothers being there and studying at the university. It's not right to have that sort of thing in the press or the media. At our university right now, many of our brothers from the southeast are studying. The next day, both I and our chancellor held a meeting on these issues, and friends were interviewed. The Bayburts are their collateral, we are. So, here, it's a misunderstanding. And I'd like to ask you... that there's something like this happening, something that's been created because of the wrong perception on social media; there's absolutely no such thing.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0086par0078	There are images, images.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0085par0079	All our friends from the southeast can read more freely than anywhere else in Bayburt, and we are the guarantees of that. But if there's anything in support of the PKK or PKK, the Bayburtians will stand against it in the best possible way, and will continue to stand, I might add. Other than that, of course, the talks I just had earlier... about the law, about personal retirement, I'm running out of time. You know, it's a 2001 law. In 2003, this law came into effect in terms of savings. Later, in 2013, the system was expanded with a state contribution to Turkey. Here, when we look at it, we see that 3.1 million people entered the system by 2013, and in 2013, and then there was a huge increase in participation in the system, so the state contribution is very important in terms of the development of the system, so it's up to 6.4 million. Again, this is not a mandatory turnout with the new law. The reason why it's called automatics is especially not to describe the people in all the payroll and public sectors as minimum wage. My time is short, but there's a sense that we're only putting people in this system at minimum wage and mandatory. There's absolutely no such thing. All people, people with payroll and public sector employees, people with a service contract, will be included in this system. If they don't want to, they'll be able to back out of the system in two months. If it stays, there's a state incentive in the system, which, given the state contribution in 2013, is very important for the system to be supported by the state contribution, to reduce the savings deficit in Turkey again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Since my time is over, I wish you all the best of this law, thank you, respect.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0087par0086	Thank you, Mr. Kavacioglu. Mr. Sky, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0088par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to inform our House on a matter I spoke of yesterday and today on the floor of the House. Mr. Genco Erkal, one of Turkey's leading artists, has been removed as a result of talks with the Ministry of Interior on his play on Nazım. Clearly, it is necessary to be sensitive and genuinely careful to the rulers who carry out such a senseless practice. I want to thank our friends, especially our Home Secretary, for the removal of this ban that will bring Turkey into unnecessary discussion. Turns out there was something they knew about later. So we all need to be alert and careful about the kind of practices that managers can do during this process. Good luck with the Genco Erkala game. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0089par0096	Thank you, Mr. Sky. And we thank you for your hard work. But we are waiting for the good news that Mr. Gök, Hakkari and Şırnak are to remain in the province. I hope you'll give us the good news. Thank you. Congressmans, we don't have MPs entering the system, we don't do the QA on Article 1. There are two motions on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 410 rankings of individual pension savings and investment system shall be replaced in the following way, and the "automatic" which is included in Article 28/03/2001 and "the right to individual retirement savings and investment system Act 4632" added to its Law (1), (6), and the "subject" in the (2) joke, and the "automatic" from the joke text of the "automatic" (82). Suleiman Yanser Ayata Aydın Beşelpehlivan Musa Pine Bulent Kuşoğlu Kemal Zeybek Haydar Akar "As part of Article 28 of Turkish Citizenship Act 29/5/2009, under Article 28 of Turkish Citizenship Act 5901, which is dated 31/5/2006 and is included in the pension plan under the employer's 4th article (a) and (c) benchmarks of Article 5510 of the General Health Insurance Act. The employer can include his employee in the retirement plan for a pension plan for his request, which is set up in accordance with the law and will be presented by a company that operates. Under this clause, the Council of Ministers is authorized to determine workplaces and employees who will be included in the pension plan and the application bases within this scope." "In addition to the contributions paid to the employee's individual pension account, the state shall also contribute according to the procedure and basis of Article 1 and Article 1. The employee is given an additional state contribution amounting to 1,000 Turkish liras, provided it is subject to the state contribution and payment requirement on Article 1 in addition to a one-time entry into the system. The Council of Ministers is authorized to increase that amount by half or reduce it by half. If the right to pension is used, the employee who prefers to receive the savings in his account as part of a ten-year annual income insurance agreement will be paid an additional state contribution in exchange for 5% of his savings. According to this clause, the monitoring and collection responsibility of the employee contribution is the company's. The Undersecretary may decide that the responsibility for surveillance and collection is to be carried out by an institution that will be authorized for this purpose. Banks, Social Security Agency and other relevant public institutions are determined as Undersecretary of procedure and fundamentals about the data needed for monitoring and collection of employee contributions and the calculation of state contributions." "There can be no further cuts under the pension plans presented under this clause, except for a reduction of funds operating costs under the 7th Amendment. The employee will receive an employee's share of the contribution, a privileged employee who will receive a follow-up on the violation and bankruptcy of Article 9/6/1932 of which the employer is a participant and under the Law on Emancipation and Bankruption 2004. Employers are inspected by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security in terms of their obligations under this clause. If the employer fails to comply with its obligations and regulations imposed under this clause, each member and each violation will be fined 100 Turkish liras by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security." Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first article of the Law Bill 410 is removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Abdullah Zeydan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0090par0123	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0089par0124	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0091par0125	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0089par0126	Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep on the motion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0092par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're talking about individual retirement, but because workers in Turkey's salaries are near the age of starvation, in fact, people need to be on a level where their salaries can actually sustain their lives. So for that, we actually give a 3.5 to 4 percent increase in inflation in the first six months and the second six months of each year. After a while, it also enters the tax language, known as the luxury tax, and the raise is received in a different way. They don't have a salary to save anyway, but I'd like to move a particular issue from Batman to us today. Dear friends, there have been eight days of power outages in Kozluk district of Batman. The power's out, so the water's out. After eight days of power out in some villages of Kozluk, again... The names of the villages are here, the village of Kozluk, the village of Kaletepe, the village of Yeşeröz, the village of Kavalı, Tepecik, the village of Cevizli, and its mezzanines, in all five villages, precious friends, no water and electricity for two days. Because there was no water or electricity, the crops he farmed in the public's field were dried up, about $6 million in damage. So, why is the power out? You know -- when we talked about the electricity -- because there was a missing fugitive in the village, the village's watch will be mounted on a common pole outside the village, and it will distribute the invoice equally to the peasant, who used what and what they didn't use -- so it will be removed from the distinction that uses very little. They're trying to get an equal amount from the peasant. The villagers object to it, and he says, "My watch isn't already inside, you can come and see it. So, because he's objecting, DEDAS comes in -- Dicle Electric Dispersion Teams -- cuts the electricity in the village and rips the transformers off with electric wires. Dear friends, there's been no water or electricity for two days. Now, to understand this... what is this missing fugitive? Is it particularly valid in Kozluk district of Batman? Isn't there an incident like this somewhere else in Turkey? Why? Because that was the practice in Bekirhan, and that was the case in the villages I just mentioned. Are there no missing fugitives in other parts of Turkey, or are there no missing fugitives in a village in Ankara? Well, why can't all the electricity in that county or that village go out at the same time? Batman's Kozluk district was chosen as a test site? This needs to be explained. How could you punish a peasant so much? Look, his chiefs are trying to get in the way, he's trying to get in touch with the governor, but the problem doesn't work out. Power lines and transformers are being ripped out. If we're going to solve problems like this -- the problems of this country -- then we're going to take care of ourselves? Now, therefore, I urge the authorities to be quick to be sensitive to the situation. This loss, the lost crop of the peasant there, is not just the lost crop of the peasant; it is the national capital of this country. Hence, in such a way, the country is being damaged, and the peasant is unable to make a living in his means of livelihood. We're drawing attention to the situation as soon as possible. Look, the president of Kozluk Mukhtars sent us an article:, in the village of Kaletepe, in the village of Yeşeröz, Kavalı, Tepecik, Tepezlı village -- counting -- for the past two days -- no water has been given. The fields and the people there are devastated. The governorship has been interviewed, but the solution has not been found. And it's because of the illegal use of electricity, as I just said. I'd like to submit this to the Minister's information as soon as possible. I want to say that we're waiting for this problem to be resolved. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0093par0139	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 410 rankings of individual pension savings and investment system shall be replaced in the following way, and the "automatic" which is included in Article 28/03/2001 and "the right to individual retirement savings and investment system Act 4632" added to its Law (1), (6), and the "subject" in the (2) joke, and the "automatic" from the joke text of the "automatic" (82). Suleiman Yanser Ayata (Istanbul) and his friends "As part of Article 28 of Turkish Citizenship Act 29/5/2009, under Article 28 of Turkish Citizenship Act 5901, which is dated 31/5/2006 and is included in the pension plan under the employer's 4th article (a) and (c) benchmarks of Article 5510 of the General Health Insurance Act. The employer can include his employee in the retirement plan for a pension plan for his request, which is set up in accordance with the law and will be presented by a company that operates. Under this clause, the Council of Ministers is authorized to determine workplaces and employees who will be included in the pension plan and the application bases within this scope." "In addition to the contributions paid to the employee's individual pension account, the state shall also contribute according to the procedure and basis of Article 1 and Article 1. The employee is given an additional state contribution amounting to 1,000 Turkish liras, provided it is subject to the state contribution and payment requirement on Article 1 in addition to a one-time entry into the system. The Council of Ministers is authorized to increase that amount by half or reduce it by half. If the right to pension is used, the employee who prefers to receive the savings in his account as part of a ten-year annual income insurance agreement will be paid an additional state contribution in exchange for 5% of his savings. According to this clause, the monitoring and collection responsibility of the employee contribution is the company's. The Undersecretary may decide that the responsibility for surveillance and collection is to be carried out by an institution that will be authorized for this purpose. Banks, Social Security Agency and other relevant public institutions are determined as Undersecretary of procedure and fundamentals about the data needed for monitoring and collection of employee contributions and the calculation of state contributions." "There can be no further cuts under the pension plans presented under this clause, except for a reduction of funds operating costs under the 7th Amendment. The employee will receive an employee's share of the contribution, a privileged employee who will receive a follow-up on the violation and bankruptcy of Article 9/6/1932 of which the employer is a participant and under the Law on Emancipation and Bankruption 2004. Employers are inspected by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security in terms of their obligations under this clause. If the employer fails to comply with its obligations and regulations imposed under this clause, each member and each violation will be fined 100 Turkish liras by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0094par0150	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0093par0151	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0095par0152	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0093par0153	On the motion...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0096par0154	Motive...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0093par0155	We're reading the motive. With the amendment in the article, the freedom to choose any of the companies that have been established and operated in accordance with the law to organise a retirement plan for their employees in accordance with their demands for accession is granted, mandatory accession is lifted, and the uncertainty in the article on the application of 100 Turkish liras is removed, if it does not comply with the obligations imposed under this clause and regulations set by the employer under this clause and by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security for each breaches. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm having the 2nd article read. The following temporary clause is added to the Law 2-4632. EPISODE 2 - employees who have not reached the age of forty-five in accordance with Article II provisions are automatically included in the retirement plan. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 2 of Article 2 Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Tor. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0097par0167	Mr. President, I have taken the oath of the MHP on Article 2 of the Dair Legislature for the Amendment to individual pension savings and investment system, which is ranked 410. I hereby salute you, your esteemed delegation, and the great nation that follows us. Dear MPs, as I said earlier in my speech, I said that the fight against the terrorist organization should not interfere with the fight against other terrorist organisations. Unfortunately, five of our soldiers were killed today in Şırnak Uludere. Three of our soldiers in the Beytüşşebap region have been martyred. In all, 18 soldiers were injured in both attacks. First, I offer God's mercy to our martyrs, and my condolences to our wounded, and to our veterans. Dear MPs, the fight against the PKK and other terrorist organisations should not cause a setback in the fight against the PKK and other terrorist organisations due to this unusual situation. After July 15th, the number of security guards killed by the terrorist organization in the southeast has exceeded 30. God forbid, if there are three, five, eight martyrs a day, a perception in that direction will also affect the fight against terrorism psychologically. Again, I would like to say that the fight against the PKK, ISIS and other terrorist organizations should never interfere with the fight against the terrorist organization. Dear lawmakers, the details of the long-standing automatic accession of BES (BES) have been greatly clear with the draft Law on the Amendment to the Individual Pension Savings and Investment System. I'd like to bring to your attention a significant lack of information about BES. What is the purpose of the obligatory BES application? In our country, savings rates are low compared to savings in the world. The lowest savings rate among countries, including countries in the European Union, which are developed and developing, is, unfortunately, Turkey. Now, when we look at it, the savings rate in China is 46 percent; in Korea, South Korea is 35 percent; in Malaysia it is 28 percent; in Turkey it is 15 percent. When we look at countries in the European Union, the average is 21.68 per cent; in developing countries, it is 31.39. The world average is around 25%. Turkey is 10 points behind the world average. When we look at countries that produce advanced technology, such as China, like America, especially recently, austerity rates, such as South Korea, show that development, industrialization, is the only criteria. The bill aims to promote domestic savings, to ensure that the level of well-being of employees during the working period is maintained during the retirement period, and to encourage individual savings of workers for pensions aimed at retirement, so that they will not be negatively affected by recent regulations and low pensions connected by the public social security system. When we say which employees will be included in the automatic individual pension system, those who will start working in the public and private sector from those who are not 45 years old and the current employees will be included in the mandatory individual pension plan, which is not 45 years old when the law comes into effect. Foreign workers will not be able to benefit from the automatic individual pension system, not within the scope. However, those who have left citizenship will be able to benefit by asking permission under Article 28 of Turkish Citizenship Law 5901. Will automatic BES be applied at all workplaces? There is no regulation on this issue; it has been left to the Council of Ministers. When we say how employees will automatically be included in BES, employees will automatically be included in the pension plan of companies deemed fit by the Treasury Undersecretary, under the employer's pension agreement. How much will they pay? The employees will pay as much as 3 per cent of their actual earnings to pay the insurance premium reported to the mandatory BES. For example, minimum wage workers will pay 49.41 percent; in today's terms, around $50. Those who pay the bonus from the ceiling will pay $321. The Council of Ministers will be authorized to increase the share of the contribution by up to 6 per cent, reduce it by 1 per cent or limit the victim's share of the contribution. The employee can pay more if he wants to. The contribution cut from the employee's fee will be transferred by the employer to the pension company, and when it does not, the employer will be responsible for the financial loss. The following and collection of the contribution will be carried out by the pension company, but the Treasury Undersecretary will also give the responsibility of monitoring and collection to an organisation that will be authorized by its contribution. Another issue: The employee will be able to withdraw from the contract in two months following the date of the pension plan, which has been reported to him. If the employee involved in the automatic BES system changes his place of employment, and has an automatic retirement plan in the new workplace, he will be able to transfer his working savings and the amount of retirement he has earned in the system to the pension agreement at the new workplace, or he will be able to get out of the system. Will the employer contribute to the automatic BES? Unfortunately for the employer, no contribution has been foreseen. A state contribution to the Automatic Individual Retirement System: a 25 per cent state contribution will be provided on behalf of the employee's personal pension account. If he doesn't back out of the system, if he's involved in the plan, the government will also contribute a thousand lira if he enters the system once in a while. The Council of Ministers will also be authorized to increase the additional state contribution amount by half or reduce it by half. An additional state contribution in the use of the right to pension: Yes, it can also be paid for 5 per cent of its savings when it meets the conditions. Retirement companies will be able to cut the cost of funding from contributions paid under the automatic BES pension plan, and there will be no more cuts. These shares will also receive a privileged one, with no chance of foreclosure, and will be audited by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. Dear lawmakers will receive an administrative fine of $100 from the Ministry of Labor and Social Security for each violation if the employer fails to comply with its obligations and regulations. The Council of Ministers will be able to include, even though there is no regulation on what is currently optionally involved in the Individual Retirement System. The system, as you know, will take effect at 1/1/2017. Dear lawmakers, what I particularly want to focus on here is that the system is lame for low income groups in this case, so it will be premature for low income groups. The BES blackout remained above the worker. The additional charge to the minimum wage employee, which wants to enter the system, is now 50 euros. There is absolutely no way that the majority of people who work at minimum wage, the spouse of the majority of them who don't work at a job, live in rent, have a few children, even a person who studies at the university, even a person whose name is BES (BES) is not available for $50 a month. In this case -- quite frankly -- the majority of the employees, especially at a minimum level, will be out of the system. Because 50 liras for a minimum wage is an important sum, especially for those in trouble for a living. If the system is to work, it is imperative that the minimum wager, who makes up a large percentage of the employee, prefers the system to remain in the system, that the employer contributes, even if it is small, a contribution from the employer. It is possible to say that the law can be applied for middle and upper income groups, but it is not possible for sub-income groups to say so. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0098par0193	Thank you, Mr. Tor. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on Article 2 Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0099par0198	Thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Dear President, the two chiefs of Batman's villages called me in the middle of what I just said about the Batman problem. Mr. Secretary, today they went to Kozlik Covet and Kozluk didn't meet with the Chiefs of Staff. They went to the governor of Batman, and the governor of Batman scolded them out. At least I'm presenting this to your knowledge. This matter really needs to be resolved. The peasant says: I've planted tobacco, I've planted strawberries, it's about to dry. Thank you. Dear friends, the agenda is really burning again rather than individual retirement, which is more than 70 grand in this community. The dismissals in public are so arbitrary, and there's so much evidence, there's no reason... that I had to express it yesterday, maybe it's going to happen again. Dear friends, people are suspended because they have a discount card, because they have a card, because they shop at NT. The bank has an account of its landlord in Asia; the bank deposits money to Asia; the bank has been suspended for paying the rent to Asia every month. Now, we all know how this terrorist gang got inside the state, into the public. He needs to be sobered up, and he needs to be dealt with, but while this is being done, we have to remind him once again that we really shouldn't burn the old and the dry together, that everything has to be in the legal department. Another important point is, look, when you put the situation of those who signed the Declaration of Academics for Peace in the same bag as this gang, credibility weakens. Then it's clear to the public that you're eliminating your opponents. Your problem is that you don't view this gang as your own enemy, but in some way, you're liquidating it from the public. It's being handled in the form of a public opinion, and it's really getting watered down, it's getting less credible, it's getting its credibility, it's getting its way into the wrong place. And I'm specifically saying that we shouldn't keep this out of sight. It's not every day that a university signatories, even members of Education-SEN... are a union that I've been a member of in the past. This union's most important challenge is to oppose the organisation of this gang in universities, public institutions. He fought for democracy. So now, with a gang group that you're fighting against, education-SEN executives or education-SEN members are put in the same spot. So, what you're really doing is illegal, and everyone is able to eliminate the ability to do so. Dear friends, look, I'd like to share with you some examples of how these are placed in public, if you'd like to liquidate them. For example, let the SEC review the ads and ads in colleges in the past, and see what reasons and how people were admitted to universities. Is the expertise of a non-existent device requested or not? Or, for example, was there 38 professors in my faculty and one historian appointed dean or not, dear friends? Or were there at least eight or ten great heroic teachers created or not? Check Dean of Pharmaceuticals, Dean of Education, Director of the Institute, whether BAP was responsible for the same person or not. Look, you'll get results with these, or you won't be able to do it by putting everyone on the same roof, in the same bag. Look, what does a person have to do with being admitted to a university of applied sciences based on an ad and being re-assigned from a university of applied sciences and a faculty of pharmaceuticals? If you're going to examine them, examine them. You can explain how the researchers for the past were taken, doctorates for the past, assigned to the past, why some people were drowned in 8-10 missions like heroes. We know these things, we know all about them, we've lived with them, dear friends. Look, there was a lecturer in elementary school teaching. Since I was a convicted professor, I applied there for ten years as a professor. There was no requirement. When I applied, they conditioned me to work at the same faculty. So, did the person who was taken work at the same faculty? I'm telling you from here, he was president of the Ministry of Cyprus, but they didn't take me, they took him. In the same way, a lecturer at the teaching faculty of pharmaceutical school in anorganic analogy, a faculty of education -- known by everyone close to pharmaceutical chemistry -- was put on staff for him, and since I was grounded, I even applied there, knowing that I wouldn't be appointed. But, do you know what was somehow done? A suitable jury was formed, and even though he was a professor at the faculty of education, he was transferred to pharmaceutical school. Dear friends, if you'd like to examine them, examine them. Otherwise, when you include members of the EDUCATION-SEN who have signed the BAK Declaration, there's no credibility. On the other hand, dear friends, we know that almost all 15 of the closed foundation universities were opened during the AKP era. Now, we don't think we have the right to judge and punish every student who goes to these universities as an active member in this gang or in this coup. Look, there's so much information pollution that a student in the fifth grade of medical school calls me, and they say to me, "You're going to have to choose again. I can't go to medical school with that score." Most of these students don't go to high school because they're as rich as they think they are, they don't go to high school because they don't have enough points or because their parents don't send them anywhere other than the county. Let's deal with this gang, we'll clear this gang from the state, the public structure to the end, but if we don't see the legal office when we do this, we can't tell anyone what's wrong with us, and we can't show anyone our rights. So, I'm here to invite the authorities once again. Look, we're looking for the rectors about this mess at the universities, about the dismissals, the rectors aren't answering our calls, dear friends. We're teachers, we have MP IDs, they don't answer our phones, they don't make appointments.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0100par0214	They don't give it to us, either?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0099par0215	Congressman, if they're not giving it to you, there's a more grave revelation. Who's the chancellor? We are the legislature of this place in the name of the public; we are obliged to be informed and answer to our citizens. We're obliged to address our citizen's problem here. If that's the case, the public officials... the governor won't make an appointment, the chancellor won't make an appointment, the police won't. So, what are we going to do, then, how are we going to do our proxy duty, dear friends? So, if that's the case, you'll have to figure it out. I hereby salute the General Assembly. I really think we should do this inside the law firm, do it all the way to the end, get this gang out of the public eye. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0101par0221	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 2 Mr. Haydar Akar. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0102par0226	Mr. President, we're meeting with the esteemed lawmakers, the Personal Retirement Act. Our groups, our friends who speak for the group, why we're against mandatory individual retirement, although we don't think it's right that people who are paid $1,300 should be forced into it, even though they're told they have the right to retire two months later. Although my city is an industrial city, 44% of people work for minimum wage of 1,300 lira. They're trying to save money, use credit cards, take credits, make a living. In fact, we're trying to save them when they need to increase their wages. I just want to say that we don't think this is right. Now, what I want to tell you is different. Yes, on the evening of July 15th, we had an attempt, and together, we fought back, and then a process began. It's true that people who have taken over the state for 30 years, 40 years, most of your time, who have taken advantage of it and settled in public institutions and institutions, should be separated from the state. We say it has to be done, but in the meantime, we also want to say that the handle and the hay should not be mixed. Why did I bring this file today? It's a big file. I brought this file to share with you an incident that took place in our city. There's a newspaper, and there's a newspaper, and it comes out under the name of our Alexei, and I'd like to share with you the articles of the citizen who owns and is a columnist. Mr. Erdogan says there's no cleaning here, there's other things in the article. President Erdogan said yesterday that the war against the Fethullah Gulen Community would continue at the funeral at the final speed, that it would be wiped out of all state offices, institutions, and that it would be wiped out. I laughed at myself again listening to them because I've heard a lot about them from Erdogan. I've heard of it, and I've seen it done in a lot of places, which means he's done it. Except for one place, Bigeli. He says no hisses. He says no hisses. There is not a single serious struggle with the congregation. The reason for this is obvious. The AKP people here are holding hands with the congregation, arm in hand, not breaking apart, not breaking apart. They're still strong, they're still active. I'm picking out a few paragraphs of the text I'm not going to read. Because there's a lot of writing. July 15th, I'm sharing with you the pre-plots. The most vivid example is that your quarrel with the congregation has no consequence here. I wrote some things yesterday, too. If you knew exactly what's going on here, you'd cut all their heads off. Your people's association with the congregation here continues with each other, hand in hand, arm in arm. The latest example is Skunkkaya. He gives an example of what kind of concession the city's municipality provides, and the executives of the city of Skunkkaya are in prison for providing financial support to the Fethullah terrorist organization. Another title: ▪ A very bright explanation! ▪ When is this explanation being made? The President of the Chamber of Commerce is taken into custody from being a member of the congregation, for providing financial support for the congregation, and then AKP executives from Kopeli are making statements. All 86 people were released during the first operation, and then they were taken again. That's after the first operation. The Chief of State of the AKP, or rather Minister Fikri Il Izk, has made a statement yesterday, but what an explanation, a celebration and an explanation to the houses. An explanation for not touching the soap in the water, to be doing it. I was really surprised when I read this statement in terms of not burning skewers or kebabs. I'll go to the men's den. He said that the people we've been with in the past can't comment on this detention. The AKP is saying that he can't comment on this detention. I'm passing through here, too. I'd also like to read an example from another article, a column: So the real purpose of the Ergenekon and the Sledgehammer operations was to disqualify some people by disqualifying them. Even I have seen how serious the construction of this congregation is. I scream for days, weeks, even months. I'm screaming that this structure has entered the capillary artery of the state and affected this area, but I can't get it to listen. They've taken over the judiciary, they've taken over the municipalities, and unfortunately, they've taken over many of the military's units. You look him in the eye. Now I'm curious about the attitude of those who are still green-lighting the construction of this congregation, those who have been released in court after police operations, those who applauded at the courthouse door, after that operation, after the detention operation. That's before the coup. I mean, he's got a war on the congregation, he owns this newspaper we call a columnist. He wrote an article in the Supreme Courthouse called "Interesting Construction": "There is a very interesting arrangement in our Alexei Courthouse, although many may have overlooked it. Don't go by the courthouse, there's an unbreakable congregation structure of the Husseli Courthouse, and this arrangement is still very powerful. The most vivid example of this is the decisions from the two-time congregation operations in the last few months. No one is arrested in these operations, they send them home, but they were arrested after July 15th. Let me read another column again: I don't understand the situation in this city. There's nothing but a couple of big, famous businessmen being taken into custody and sent to prison, raiding and raiding, while bureaucrats are being deposed, and there's nothing to show for it, except for one or two failed operations. In this town, old relationships still go on the same way. In short, let it be fought against the congregation, the congregation is protected, protected, and carried on as before. After July 15, the AKP officially launched a war of life and death against the congregation after the July 15 coup attempt. Members of the congregation are being cleaned up from everywhere, especially in public institutions and organizations. The judiciary, especially the Turkish Armed Forces, is being operated on operations in public institutions, and even schools, classrooms, associations associated with the community are being shut down quickly, access to websites is being blocked, media organisations are being seized, he says. Moving on... He's doing his second edition that day, after the coup, because the papers get printed early. He publishes a newspaper like this. Mr. Ilyas is the MP from Kopeeli, he doesn't look here at all. Look, Erdoğan called for the street. He called for death. Again, the Prime Minister's order, Mr. Fikri Izkerin's order was carried out, Hulusi Akar was taken hostage. Again, his claim came out in a headline condemning the coup. And he writes a column there, in the second edition: I'm up to 50, and in that time, I've seen two blows, especially 72 blows. He says: I'm against any kind of coup. Now this citizen's been inside, still under surveillance for 25 days, his newspaper has been confiscated. Three newspapers were seized and one of them was this newspaper. This newspaper hasn't published my news in four months, friends, and you should know that it opposes the AKP, but it shows us love, it publishes our articles, our news. I'm not saying that it's a newspaper like this. Now, he's been inside for 25 days, under surveillance, he hasn't been questioned yet, he's had 60 employees. Three newspapers closed, 100 employees total. They went yesterday and applied for unemployment insurance, and their employees said they wouldn't be given unemployment insurance. I mean, he can't get unemployment insurance, so these 60 employees and newspaper employees are a victim. Yes, in the past, companies have been confiscated, newspapers confiscated, trustees appointed, TMSF have been transferred, employees there have not been victimized or processed by paying compensation. Now, these people have families, they have children, and I don't think even one of those newspaper employees has anything to do with the Fethullah terrorist organization. Now, two newspapers have been associated with them. Is it true? True to me, but many of the employees, especially the employees, and some of the friends in this newspaper, have nothing to do with Fethullah. It has nothing to do with their lifestyle, it has nothing to do with their writing, it has nothing to do with their thoughts, but it's turned into a witch hunt. Adding this to those two newspapers... especially Mr. Secretary of Defense -- the provisions in this law, you know, are coming out of the President's Council of Ministers -- he said, "Let me get rid of this journalist." Because there are cases that I haven't read that the Fethullahists have filed against him. They're saying something else, that their financial relationship is dirty, something or other, that they don't associate with Fethullah. Yes, he's also in Turkish Penal Code. Why was this extraordinary state of mind issued? The Fethullah was brought out to clean up the terror organization in order to make quick decisions. Although the case has been delivered to the Prime Minister for ten days, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, which we don't believe in, although it has been delivered to him for ten days, I take it very strongly that the claim has not been answered. Not to play with these people's bread, all their assets have been confiscated, and also, all their assets have been confiscated; it could be. If he has an illegal job, he has no ties to the Fethullah terrorist organization, if he has an illegal job, it's not our job to defend it, it's the government's law enforcement, there's lawyers, there's the courts, there's the courts, there's the expense account, I'm not on this side, but it's an example of this practice in Koseli. There are other examples in Turkey, they come to us every day. There are people who have been suspended in the past because the bank has opened an account to Asia; the list from Bank Asia has been suspended according to that list. These aren't the right approaches. It must be explained by the government as soon as possible why this newspaper was shut down and why it was confiscated. I give you all my love, my respect.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0103par0238	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Any other speakers on Article 2? No. Since there's no congressman entering the system, there's no question-and-answer process. There's a motion on Article 2 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law Bill 410 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Abdullah Zeydan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0104par0249	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0103par0250	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0105par0251	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0106par0252	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0103par0253	We're reading the motive. The arrangement will automatically include non-45-year-old employees in the individual pension system. This arrangement envisions automatic registration of workers to the Individual Retirement System by cutting workers' salaries in parallel to Article 1. The minimum wage increase of power is clearly seen as a big lie about subcontractors and severance pay, and soon, in practice and such arrangements. The workers will become poorer with the obligatory BES. While the so-called raise to minimum wage has been seen to be a big lie, with many cuts in practice, the increase has already been returned to employers, a cut will be made again from minimum-paying employees, which will go much higher in union, collectively contracted businesses. The fact that low-paying and minimum wage workers have begun to enter the 20 per cent tax slice will further increase poverty, increasing minimum wage in both the BES and the tax language. Thus, for the minimum wage that strives to live under the age of hunger, every month that is cut will bring even more difficult living conditions. It's unacceptable for employees to feed on taxes, money from employees, capital from employees. It's not the answer to forcing workers who are able to live in debt to save their lives by forcing them to reach into their pockets. Therefore, we predict that the provisions in this bill be removed from the text of matter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. MADDE 3- This Law is enforced on 1/1/2017. İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 3. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your ten minutes, Mr. Erdem, please.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0107par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group on Article 3 of the Law Against Advention and Investment Systems Act 410, with respect to the Veterans Assembly. As of July 15th, the night of the traitorous coup attempt, the Turkish nation was always in the square, the keeper of our democracy. St Turk's nation has set an example for the world with its upright stance, and it proudly raises our flag and takes care of our martyrs and veterans, and fearlessly announces its rights to traitors and terrorists. I pray to Almighty God that the union and unity of the great Turkish nation endure. The great Turkish nation has preserved its glorious, glorious past, and will continue to protect it from now on. We all lived and saw it on August 7, 2016, in Yenikapi, Istanbul. I'm a Turkish son of this beautiful country, I'm proud. We, the Nationalist Movement Party, were in Yenikapi to embrace the Turkish nation with a louder voice, against traitors who tried to kill the Turkish nation with their own children.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0108par0268	Your Grace, one moment, please. Congressmans, there really is a lot of humming in the General Assembly. Especially the MPs talking on the phone, and we're having a hard time hearing the minister. Go ahead, Mr. Erdem. Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0109par0271	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we, under this Veteran Assembly, are sitting on the burden of our nation as the deputy of our nation. It is our duty to speak the truth, and it is our duty to speak the truth, and it is our duty to oppose the wrong. In this misty environment, our oppressed nation and public servants are being victimised. Not all Turkish soldiers should be branded coupgers and criminals. The Turkish Armed Forces are our eyeballs, that's our eyeballs, that's what's going to happen; the police force is our eyeballs, that's how it's going to be. Dear lawmakers, July 15th can be considered a turning point, especially for the ruling party, and they themselves have appointed it as a mark. I think our only goal is to be on our side of the nation, and we must do our duty fair and square. The rule of rule of law must be acted on principle, separate the innocent from the guilty. Every member of parliament who sits here from past mistakes must learn a lesson from each minister, Prime Minister, and even the President of the ruling party. We can only do that if we call it the country first, then the nation, the precious MPs. Today is not the day to hold a grudge against the innocent, and today is not the day to take vengeance on the oppressed. Our struggle is common, our struggle must be with all terrorist organizations that have meant our country and our nation. We must be one heart in this struggle, one fist in this struggle. The screams of those who have been relieved of duty, the collective discharges, the cancellations of teaching licenses, the screams of our young people who have been trained in closed universities must be taken into account, well studied, not executed without a trial. Here's where I want to say it over and over again: The fethullahist terrorist organization must be eradicated, the ISIS must be eradicated, the PKK must be eradicated, so all parallel state structures must be eradicated, and we must be one heart for those who aid and abet them to get the punishment they deserve. Precious lawmakers are the aims and duties of the Constitution, the independence and integrity of the Turkish nation, the protection of the republic and democracy, the prosperity, peace and happiness of the people and society; the efforts to prepare conditions for the development of human existence, which limit the fundamental rights and freedoms of one, the social law state and the principles of justice, to remove political, economic and social barriers, which are incompatible with political, economic and social barriers. The government's job is to prevent people from doing anything wrong and to take precautions about it. Just as parents take every precaution to protect their children from danger, the government must take every precaution to ensure that their nation does not fall into error. It's a very important point where our government tells us that it's wrong and confesses. The situation we're in today is, in its exact words, the back of a knife. Today, of course, is not the time to talk about the past, but if the past is going to determine our present and cause our nation to suffer, we have to face it and shape our next practices accordingly, my friends. All of the institutions in our country -- and I'm telling you this -- of its prestigious institutions -- are now a cancer cell. We will clean them together, but as this is being cleaned, the age must not burn next to the dry, the practice must be carefully, carefully, and very carefully. Applications for public personnel must be kept away from personalization and political discrimination. There's something that I need to mention here that's become the cry of our nation, and I'm thinking of it as a big question mark, and I'd like to mention it. Here's the thing: Turkey is 2. The Football League A category was sponsored by Bank Asia in 2008 and is called Bank Asia 1. The league has been changed. I mean, the Bank was brought into the Asian sports community, and it gained dignity. Again, the schools and classrooms of the terrorist organization have been reputed by the elders of our entire nation by sending the children away. However, as we all know, after December 17-25, 2013, the government faced the reality of the Pennsylvania imam, which the National Movement Party had warned until that day. They also admitted that they were deceived by the process prior to December 17th-25th. Although our criticisms are numerous, today we hold our rights to criticism in unification to prevent the victims of our nation. But I'd like to raise a question that doesn't sit in the mind, which confuses them: Why didn't you lock up Bank Asia, their educational institutions, their homes, even though you knew that the Pennsylvania imam was a member of a terrorist organization after 17-25 December 2013? Praise be to God, our government has this power. After the coup attempt, in ten days, when all of this was locked down, why wasn't it done after that day? If it had been done, after 17-25 December 2013, no one would have invested money in Bank Asia, who served the treacherous Fethullahist terrorist organization, no one would have sent their children to their educational institutions, no one would have entrusted their children to their homes. Dear lawmakers, with these institutions open, will the families and their children be victims of sending their children to those schools and trying not to demoralize their children just so they don't have to change schools? Will those who buy a house from a housing project and are directed by a real estate company to Bank Asia be victims? Will the person who took a car from an automobile dealership and was directed by this dealership to Bank Asia be a victim? Will the children who are trained here be victimised because the schools and classrooms are open? Will all teachers who teach at these educational institutions be victims? Now, of course, he won't be harmed. He may pass, but I'd like to read an application that came to me. Mr. Deputy, I'm here in Ankara. I've been with my family for 20 days. Neither my parents nor I can eat properly. Is it a crime to deposit money in a bank or use a credit card? In the Constitution, our lives have been victimized for a crime without definition. But I can prove that I put it in the bank to buy a house. Because of the money I invested in buying a house, I've been suspended from the teaching profession that I love more than my life, and it's coming to our attention that we're going to be disbarred because of the state of law. I'm thinking of committing suicide. Dear lawmakers, teachers who don't get their papers from closed universities, students who are looking for me, I'm sure they're looking for you, too. The solution must be found by the SEC. There are hundreds of applications like this and this. I give it all to your conscience. I'd like to rephrase how heavy we are and how heavy we are. Let's not forget, the commander who doesn't think the worst is a good commander. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0110par0282	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on Article 3 of Article 3 Mr. Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0111par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my remarks, I would like to start by reminding you that today is the 10th month of the October 10th Ankara massacre and that the lack of effective legal process in the face of the massacre on which 102 people were killed in the explosion at the Ankara Train Station have been injured is still a disgrace to this country's democracy, and there are serious problems for our future. I condemn this attack with hatred, where I go to the station of the train only to cry out for peace, and remember those who have lost their lives with mercy and gratitude. I would like to point out that in this country, including the Ankara massacre, the account of the bombs that have been detonated for months has been being questioned, preventing the loss of their lives, and defending true democracy, the only way to face the truth and defend the superiority of justice and law. Those who have lost relatives and defenders of democracy have only one demand, and that is justice. Fighting crimes against humanity in months of curfews against the explosions in Diyarbakır, Suruç, Ankara, İstanbul will also create a means of protection against coups. We, the HDP, have repeatedly drawn attention from this bench, but unfortunately our warnings, which you do not heed, have fallen on the entire country, Turkey, and society, as a nightmare, with a terrible coup attempt on July 15th. The failure of the coup attempt is our only consolation at the moment, but there are very important steps that must be taken politically to ensure that the threat is permanent. We're making this call. Democracy is primarily about justice, it's about confrontation, it's about guilt, it's about crime, it's about the effective fight, but the policy that's being carried out right now is unfortunately far from the struggle. From the very first moment, we're experiencing the consequences of the coup attempt we cursed. On the one hand, we follow the policy and the steps. These results are also reflected in the General Assembly. In an environment where parliament is bypassed, there's a very serious artificiality in either the work or the rhetoric, and it's already felt. What we see when we look outside is detention, arrest operations and tortures against Kurdish people based on the State of Emergency. On the one hand, the prosecutor, the judge and the police, who conducted the KCK operations launched six years ago, has been arrested, while on the other hand, our members, our politicians, are being subjected to new operations. In the last year, those who arrested more than a thousand of our politicians, our members, were either suspended today or arrested, but the members they arrested are still in prison. The government, who has not taken a single step in these matters, wants to bring in a bag of laws and make Haqkari and Şırnak a district, and also prepares to appoint trustees to our elected municipalities. To save such a life without asking the people of Şırnak and Hakkari is only to punish those people. Hakkari and Şırnak must remain the province. I hope this savings will soon be waived. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, yes, we're not going through the usual process, we haven't been through the usual period in over a year. We said that every chance we got. Under the circumstances, we can't pretend that life is normal. The quickest steps to normalise must be taken and carefully avoided the polarizing approaches of society. A bill, such as the individual pension system, should not have been brought up at such a time, in such a hurry, without a proper assessment. Besides, if this bill had been delivered a month ago, we'd have done the same thing. The AKP's work to make laws is far from normal legislative activities. The legislative process must not be run without discussion, without pluralism. We have no objection that the country's politics should quickly normalize, but it is not a matter of passing the individual pension system through the General Assembly from evening to morning. What needs to be done is the immediate termination of the State of Emergency, the abandonment of practices such as increased torture, abuse along with the State of Emergency, and the end of detention and arrests against opposition parties, particularly HDP. I'd like to renegotiate the way the bill was brought up before the General Assembly, as we've always criticised. Such a concept of legislation is truly unacceptable. The will of Parliament and the lawmaker can't be described in this way, it's not an approach to the issues that concern millions of workers who live on minimum wage. Look, just five days ago, our President of the Justice Commission, Mr. Ahmet Veedima, stated on TV that the controversial issues in this process would not be brought to the Parliament's agenda. As I listened to him, I thought, "Are we having some sort of normalization or are we going to live, but I see that, before the temperature of those words is over, again, with the Commission, the government and the majority of parliament, the approach to making laws with such a savings is still being imposed on society. The individual pension system, whether voluntary or mandatory, has been considered a technical issue by the executive body, and those who have this technical knowledge have been discussed, or rather, in an environment where capital is dominated by interest organisations in the sector. When we look at the reviews in the last month, we see that they're all from the capital circles, and they're almost as if they came out of a single pen. However, the reform of the pension system is a fundamental issue of how and how society will live together. Thus, such a basic institutional change must not be achieved without the opinion of unions and young people, for example. Because today's employees -- the under-45 population mentioned in the proposed BES arrangement -- will be pushed to a very disadvantaged position during the transition period. Dear lawmakers, in Turkey, this system is not really a new practice; it's new, it's just that the system has to be made obligatory. Because the current individual pension system was adopted in the Parliament during the coalition government in 2001. At the time, the late Ecevit saw the legalisation of this system as one of the most important achievements of the coalition government and said that a government that made such a positive change could not go to keep the stability going even if it wanted to. However, the coalition government and the component parties, along with Ecevit, stayed out of parliament in the elections a few months later, but BES remained intact. From that day forward, the individual pension system is being applied on the basis of voluntary participation. On the other hand, from the beginning of 2013, 25 per cent of the contributions to BES have been paid. To date, the public presentation of the individual pension system based on voluntary participation was based on a message that this was a second pension revenue and the complement of the public pension system. Today, we are again discussing a situation on the basis of the coalition government in 2001: the obligatoryness of BES (BES) for all employees. Actually, the idea of mandatory and private retirement is not a new idea. In the 1990s, the World Bank was the global advocate for the idea of mandatory individual retirement. Today, the AKP government is trying to become its local enforcer. In doing so, the basis for the bill is credit for the system, and various countries are trying to create public perception through example. However, the situation we face is a clear indication that the social security system is failing. The swiftness of the bill makes it clear that the economy is also involved. The AKP government, which has waged war against workers during its 14-year mandate, has also coveted workers' salary -- if necessary -- as in every breach in the economy. Dear lawmakers, the mandatory BES application is contrary to the Constitution's principles on social security, freedom of contract and property. In this regard, the government must either declare that it has given up on the principle of the social state, or withdraw the bill at once. In the event of the legislation of this bill, which covets the salary of even minimum wagers, the minimum wage that strives to live under the age of hunger will bring with it the harsher living conditions each month. A state-sponsored pension is the financing of companies that have a monopoly in this area. A significant portion of state revenues are provided from the taxpayers, but the bill aims to seize the money earned by the AKP worker and transfer it back to capital. In the event of the bill's legalisation, the obligatory BES JJ and the workers will become poorer, and the workers will be condemned to hunger. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm putting it together, Mr. President, if you'll just give me a minute...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0112par0304	Please complete, Mr. Ozky. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0111par0306	Thank you. To say that the one who does not want to back out of the bill can get out of the system is nothing more than a misdirection of society. If the government wants society to save money, it must first cut the cost of the palace and then arrange wages for the satisfaction of the workers. We want to hear what's being done with this bill, the government's true intentions. Let us be told that the system that already exists, despite the state contribution, has not received attention, has not reached the desired number, the system is about to fail. Because, valuable lawmakers, the current individual pension system has seriously damaged 7 per cent last year, and on average, in five years, the percentage of people who have come out of the system is 50 per cent. So it seems that national and international capital, especially ministers, is an imposition of national and international capital, and we are going to reject and reject this bill on individual pension, which is intended to seize the money of millions of workers. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0113par0310	Thank you, Mr. Ozky Ertan. Mr. Sky and Mr. Akchay have entered the system. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0114par0315	Mr. President, one sad news after another. There have been explosions in Diyarbakır Sur district and Mardin Kızıltepe. We're getting reports of many citizens who have lost their lives and have been injured. We've been monitoring this from the press, but is there any information that might have reached the Minister? Can he inform our House and us on this? We demand information on that matter, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0113par0316	Okay, thank you. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0115par0319	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we see this PKK terror organization's treasonous attacks continue, again, minute by minute, hour by hour. We regret and regret to learn that bombings have been carried out in front of the hospital and that some of our citizens have lost their lives and have been injured. On the one hand, we are fighting against the Fethullahist terrorist organization, while we are facing the attacks of the separatist terrorist group Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). In the last 24 hours -- except for the events that have occurred in these last few hours -- eight of our soldiers have been killed and 19 others injured in the attacks in Diyarbakır, Uludere, Beytüşşebap, Yüksekova. In addition, one of our soldiers was killed and two of our soldiers were injured as a result of the overthrow of the military vehicle in Siirt. I wish God's mercy to our martyrs, to his relatives, and to the great Turkish nation, and to our wounded, an urgent cure. We see once again today that the fight against terrorism must have a integrity, and the aim of terrorism, regardless of who it comes from, is assassinations aimed at the existence and unity of the Turkish nation and Turkey. In the fight against terrorism, let me finish this terrorist, then I'll move on to the other one. We won't find his understanding right. Anti-terrorism is a national case. Our future and our future depend on our being one and whole in this struggle. Our beloved nation has made its stand in the fight against terrorism clear. Whether it's the PKK or ISIS or the last terrorist surrender, the fight against terrorism must continue uninterruptedly and I thank you all for my faith in it.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0116par0324	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0117par0327	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the People's Democratic Party Group, have learned of the explosions in Diyarbakir, Mardin, and Mardin. These explosions occurred in civilian settlements and are now known to have multiple casualties. Of course, we don't have the details of the incident, but we'd appreciate it if we could share the information as soon as possible. As the People's Democratic Party, we have publicly condemned all the massacres that have been committed in civilian settlements and all the bombs that have been detonated so far, and today I would like to say that we are publicly condemning these explosions. I hope there's no loss of life, I hope the painting isn't too heavy. Once again, I would like to extend our condolences to all our people, including Diyarbakır, Mardin. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0118par0330	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0119par0333	Mr. President, we have eight witnesses in the attacks on our law enforcement forces yesterday and in the attacks on today. I wish you the mercy of our martyrs, the peace of our nation. In the same way, we have citizens who died and were wounded in the attacks today, asking for God's mercy on the dead, asking for immediate healing for the wounded. Turkey has been fighting terrorism for a long time. Not just with a terrorist organization, but with multiple terrorist organizations. The PKK is fighting the terrorist organisation from one side, while the DHKP-C is fighting the terrorist organisation, as well as the DİH terrorist organisation from the other, continuing its fight against the state of the Republic of Turkey. I'd like to say that we've cursed all kinds of terror and that we're determined to continue this fight with all these terrorist organizations here as the AK PARTY Group. Let our nation be blessed, the terrorist organizations have so far not been able to rise to any purpose within the borders of the Republic of Turkey that they want or desire, and then they have absolutely no access to, and somehow these terrorist organizations will be eliminated and whoever is behind them will be questioned, I say with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0120par0336	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Members of parliament, we, the Court, ask God's mercy for those who lost their lives in the bombings in Diyarbakır Sur and Mardin Kızıltepe, and ask for immediate healing for our wounded citizens. Mr. Secretary, the opposition has a demand for this, and I think it needs an update; when do you get word?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0121par0341	I'll be waiting for the information, sir, before the General Assembly is finished.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0120par0342	Well, thank you, Mr. Secretary. Members of parliament, now on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the third article, İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0122par0350	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I ask for the mercy of those who died in the attacks on Diyarbakır and Mardin, and for the immediate healing of the wounded. I'm going to talk about the bill that we're discussing that changed the individual pension law. I've been promised on behalf of the group, and I'm just going to talk about the bill. Dear lawmakers, with this law, what are we really doing with this arrangement? We need to answer this question. Here's what's done: you know, there's this crazy Dumrul story, he builds a bridge, he gets a dollar from the last one, he beats the shit out of it. We've got BES, we've got $1 from the passers-by, and now we're going to force those who don't cross the bridge and get money from him. It's a system like this. As described in the basis of the bill, let these workers maintain the level of prosperity that they work for when they retire, save, and have a better life. Let us not deceive the nation, rather than a law that is called a law. My dear friends, with this law, essentially 10 billion dollars in ten years, maybe more money will be taken from employees and transferred to capital. That's the thing, it's the money. Now, we've been constantly told that things have been going very well, especially in the economy, but we understand that it's not at all by the laws that are being passed in a state of panic. Almost, the mufli merchant thing, where we can get what from, and what we can get from whom, and the laws that come in a hurry. This is one of them. The employees have never been asked anything about it. Insurance companies... they've made an insurance adjustment in the previous bag of legislation. Unfortunately, we didn't tell people the truth when we made this arrangement. Here, the insurance policy costs are high, and that's what we're doing to bring it down. Actually, that wasn't true. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has deceived the nation, power, rather. What was done was to free the insurance companies from certain responsibilities. And now we're trying to give life-water to insurance companies that are at a loss because of the lobbying work that insurance companies do, that's what they do. My dear friends, where do we get this money, $50 a month? He'll get 50 lira a month for minimum wage, sir. Who are we gonna get it from? The one with $1,300... Should I pay $600? I'll make you a bagel. That'll be 700 lira. And 200 lira for the bills -- no, but -- 500 liras to go. $16.6 a day and $4.1 for a family of four. We now receive 1.6 TL from this family daily. Remember, we got 55 cents for unemployment insurance. Guys, this is outrageous! What a cruel thing to do! So we're actually going to take money from families that actually live on about a dollar a day, raise money, and transfer 90 percent to insurance companies that are in the hands of foreign capital. That's what we do. So we're standing here and we're doing something to no one, sir, and we're actually saving this country, and we're saving it... who are we saving it for, my dear friends? Look, the government's job is to ensure justice, to distribute the wealth produced in the country to the public in a fair manner. Now, you're already making a huge injustice out of the tax pardons you've made in your tax systems. So you're already getting obligatory taxes from these people, these people, who you're taking 50 lira a month, including now the mandatory BES. Each time you take a step with your VAT, you get taxes from these people. Your greatest injustice is that nearly 70 percent of your taxes are indirect taxes. These days, we've already given a huge pardon to the wealthy, to the wealthy, to the wealthy, to the tens of billions of dollars. As we do so, the minimum wage salary will be reduced to close to $50, so let's correct it. When we say, "Sir, where are we going to do it?" The balances are off, we need $1 billion. You said. What kind of work is this, friends? So your sense of justice, your conscience, does it really allow you to raise your hand freely? If so, have mercy! My dear friends, the work that's actually done is about where the world came from. On the one hand, we're fighting the world, we're calling it the upper mind, we're calling it the enemy and everything, but the economic system of the world has imposed on us -- in fact, all the world systems -- business, we're doing exactly what they're saying. Look, starting in the 1980s, something called a neoliberal system is being discussed in the world. Let me make this very simple, my dear friends. This system is a system invented to overcome the congestion of capitalism -- which is sometimes blocked by capitalism. Capitalism -- the world capital -- is troubled by speed and range, and its eyes are set on the social state, the bread, the labor, the income of the large masses. One of these is the insurance system. In fact, mandatory retirement, which is a system of resolving the state's public pension and replacing it with private retirement, is a study, my dear friends. Capitalism constantly tells us that, in fact, philosophy is based on this: resources are limited, but needs are infinite. My dear friends, that's a big lie, there's no such thing. Man's needs are passions, not eternal. Man's ambitions are infinite, and this system sits on them. You see, they want to win more, they want to win more, and they encourage all of this to countries like us through their experts, even through their universities, and you look at the same laws -- about working life, about the union, about forced retirement -- all of a sudden in many countries. My dear friends, this does not actually bring anything very serious about saving. Instead, other measures could be taken, and these people would not be robbed of $50 a month. Don't be stolen, my dear friends. It'll be legitimate, of course. There'll be no theft under the law. You have to take it from these people. So you're not asking him. Sir, he can come out of work in two months or so, but he's not. We will be forced to receive $50 a month from these people, and that will contribute greatly to the savings in Turkey. In fact, it's about 5 million to the insurance companies -- I don't know -- there's not a lot of impact assessment reports on the commission or the General Kurula, the MP -- but it's not going to contribute much to the economy. Basically, we're going to bring in new, mandatory clients to the insurance companies that are losing money. The government wouldn't do that, dear friends. The state would not do such a thing, the state would not do such a thing to private companies -- 90 percent of the capital of these companies -- to foreign companies. The National Assembly wouldn't do such a thing, my dear friends. This Parliament is the National Assembly, Veteran is the Parliament, led by the Istliklal War. On the 15th of July, lawmakers in this parliament have dropped bombs on this Parliament as you speak, such a national parliament. It's not proper, my dear friends, to take money from the poorest people in this country who have to live off a dollar a day and transfer it to insurance companies. One more thing and I'm done. Dear lawmakers, right now three laws have come to the Plan and Budget Commission in a row. One of them was the changes made in BES, the one about the asset fund, which was in the bag, out of the bag, and the other in the bag. Dear lawmakers, you are constantly saying that this intervention, the coup was done to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, democracy; that's right, that's right. The cradle of democracy, the seat of national will, is Parliament. Then you'll see the House as Parliament, and you'll treat it with respect. It's coming up one evening, the Plan and Budget Commission meets the next day, then the General Assembly meets the next, and you don't know what you're talking about. Dear friends, you can't save democracy in shape. Something symbolic has been done in the new door, and the right things have been done, but you will essentially run the Assembly. Lawmakers in parliament, representatives of the nation, lawmakers in accordance with the preferences and demands of the nation. No poor people were asked to be affected by this law as it came out, not one labor union representative, my dear friends. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0123par0365	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. Talks on Article 3 have been completed. There's no congressman in the system. There's no question-answering process. There are two motions on the third article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 3/752) to the Amendment to individual pension savings and investment system laws (1/752) in the following way. With all due respect. Suleiman Yanser Ayata Aydın Beşelpehlivan Musa Pine Kemal Zeybek Haydar Akar Bkent Kuşoğlu MADDE 3 - This Law takes effect on its first day of work following its publication date. Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the Law Bill 410 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Abdullah Zeydan Behcet Yıldırım Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0124par0388	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0123par0389	Does the government agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. About the motion...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0125par0392	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0123par0393	I'm reading the reason: We are principlely opposed to the entire bill because of the arrangements against workers and workers. That's why we're predicting the adoption of the application clause. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 3/752) to the Amendment to individual pension savings and investment system laws (1/752) in the following way. With all due respect. Moses Pine (Izmir) and his friends MADDE 3 - This Law takes effect on its first day of work following its publication date. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0126par0404	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0123par0405	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. We're reading motive?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0127par0408	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0123par0409	I'm reading the reason: A change is recommended to make the material text understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. MADDE 4-The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There are no speakers on the 4th article on behalf of groups. There's no question-answering process. There are two motions on Article 4 that I am reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 4/752) in Article 4/752) in the following way to change the law on individual pension savings and investment systems. With all due respect. Gaye Bezeler Musa Çam Bkent Kuşoğlu Aydın Bezelpehlivan Kemal Zeybek Haydar Akar MADDE 4-These provisions are carried out by the Council of Ministers. Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0128par0430	We're pulling the motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0123par0431	You're pulling the motion, over. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the other motion?
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0129par0433	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0123par0434	Government, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. About the motion, Mr. Levent...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0130par0437	Motive...
tbmm-2016-08-10sit04spe0123par0438	I'm reading the reason: A change is recommended to make the material text understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Members of the law, I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the bill has been approved and legalized. Mr. Secretary, are you going to make a statement? Yes, Mr. President. Here you go. Mr. President, he needed an explanation. We have one police officer in Mardin Kızıltepe in particular, five officers wounded, two civilians killed, 15 civilians injured. We also lost four civilians in Diyarbakır Sur. Five police officers were slightly injured. In both cases, police forces and members of the judiciary continue to work on the events of the bomb-loaded vehicle attack. He also needed to provide information in that sense. Thank you. Well, thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (August 16th 2016) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
