tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 117th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three separate motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: [[The motion has been read by Clerk Member Elazığ MP Ömer Serdar]] ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Panplast Watering Agriculture San, which operates as an industrial organisation in the district of Jahanbeyli, Antalya Province, Turkey. And Tic. Workers working under the EC joined the PETROL-İS Union in October 2015, using their democratic and constitutional rights. In the process of union organisation, the majority of memberships have been provided, and by the PETROL-HIS Union...
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0002par0012	Mr. President, no off-the-tops talk, off-the-tops talk?
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0001par0013	No, no, sir, it's a private agenda, so we started talking directly. Here you go. [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Member Elazığ MP Ömer Serdar]] On 10/10/2015, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security received an application for most of them. On 16/10/2015 dates and 75014829/103. Although a positive response was given in Article 02-23122 and a collective contract warrant was issued to the PETROL-HIS Union on 6/11/2015, the employer objected to authority on the final day of the five-day legal deadline. Upon the employer's objection, the Ministry has suspended collective contract authority. In the process of unionisation, including before and after the mandate of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, it is said that employers pressure workers because they belong to the union, that they are resorted to intimidation policies at work to break their organizational will, and that workers are forced to resign from the union. It is said that workers are forced to give e-government codes and report their union friends, and that the employer's pressure has increased after a positive response by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security to the majority assessment. Panplast Watering Agriculture San. And Tic. On 7/11/2012, 76 union workers, including 46 on 4/12/12/2015, were terminated on 3, 12/11/2015, 26/11/2015, and 46 on 4, 9/12/2015 and 10/12/2015. At the same time, the union issued information to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security on the matter of having employees who work at the PETROL-İS Union, who have just opened the employer's other business number, or who have been established in the past, and who have been registered with another business number (even though their workplace does not change) on paper transfers, which is dated 8/12/2015 and is required by 01127. In light of the information mentioned above, Panplast Watering Agriculture San, which operates under the roof of the Anatolian Union Holdings, which has been established under the leadership of the Conian Beet Plants Cooperative with the sweat and labor of tens of thousands of farmers. And Tic. With respect to the opening of Parliamental investigations under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Court of the Constitution, 98, TBMM, and 105, in order to determine and determine the measures which should be taken in order to determine the rights of workers and families who have been laid off because of the pressure and intimidation policies that workers have been subjected to by the law. 1) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[Ankara]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 6) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] 7) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] 12) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] 16) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] 25) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The failure of social state mechanisms to operate is becoming a permanent problem in our country, in line with increasing revenue distribution disorder and poverty, lack of economic and social support, and the rapid growth of the population, and our country is the biggest obstacle to the use of education of its children. The lack of legislation on preventing child labour is not enough to solve problems, but the failures to implement legislation must be eliminated. It is clear that a long-term solution to this problem needs to be drawn into an effective and sustainable combat framework. For these reasons, we would like to submit a parliamentary examination of the Constitution under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code, in order to determine the issues and measures that need to be taken. 22/12/2015 [[Tekirdağ]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 4) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] [[Adana]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] 8) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 12) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] 21) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] The United Nations Convention on Children's Rights, which is under our country's signature and is the most comprehensive and inclusive for children's rights, is defined as children under Article 1. This document aims to make sure that each child lives in the best possible way, that he can fully benefit from all the rights that come from being born and being a child. In order to accomplish this goal, all regulations or practices that directly or indirectly concern children require that the child be based on the high benefit of the child. The country, including this contract, is the signator of 30 right-based documents that bind 19 (s) in total, including the European Union and the Council of Europe's contracts and protocols on children. Despite the provisions of these contracts and agreements in the legislation, however, child labor has become an unstoppable and unstoppable situation in our country. According to the Timed Policy and Program Framework for the End of this year, the worst forms of child labor have been intended to eliminate child labor, primarily in 2005. However, it is impossible to say that the program was successful. On the contrary, in parallel with the spread of the labour market's flexibility and instability, child workers have become an important source of insecure labor pools. According to the latest data by TÜİK (TÜİK) in 2012, the children's employment rate is 2.6 per cent; the 15-17-year-old group is 15.6%. In other words, nearly 900,000 children between the ages of 6 and 17 are involved in working life. 49% of children working across Turkey continue to attend a school, while 50.2% are deprived of the right to study. Poverty and wrong education policies are the most important elements that feed the cruel cycle of child labor. Children's labor comes as a structural result of employment strategies that feed on poverty and insecurity. The eradication of child labor is crucial for the breaking of the low-paying and unqualified workforce cycle, in which both the working children and their families are involved. Our country causes children to lack the right to education because of poverty, to transfer poverty from generation to generation, and to form a vicious cycle of poverty. For the reasons mentioned above, we believe it would be appropriate to open a parliamentary investigation to determine the problems of preventing child labor and the measures to be taken by our Grand Assembly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are thousands of forest villages in Turkey and 7 million, 346 thousand forest villagers live in these villages. Turkey's Forestry Co-operatives include 3,000 cooperatives (OR-KOOP) and 300,000 forest villagers connected to these cooperatives. Co-operatives, the representative of the forest villager during the state-run process of the forests of Turkey, perform 70 per cent of forest activity. In our country, mountain and forest villages are generally built on bumpy and steep terrain, so forest villages are known to lack infrastructure and education and health. Because the ownership of forest and forest businesses belongs to the state, the forest villager is trying to make a living in the forest, the state has provided. It is imperative that the forest peasant's labor be rewarded, that the forest peasant's conditions be provided by the state so that they can live on where they were born. In dense forest areas, climate conditions and geographical conditions hold an important place in the local economy of forestry. The forest is the only source of livelihood for the local forest peasant. In this context, regulations and decisions made regarding the forests also directly affect the forestry co-ops, the only organisation of the forest villager. Because of the wrong policies that have been implemented in recent years, forest production has come to a point where the premiums, incentives, and base price are low, and the forest villager can't even cover its expenses, not even if the gas and diesel prices have increased over and over again. As a result, from villages to cities began their migration. Today, in our country, the income level is the lowest mass forest villagers. They can't even afford to be under social security umbrellas as part of the BUG-KUR that he's known for lack of income. In order to eliminate this problem, legal arrangements must be made to ensure that the forest peasant can be taken under social security. The loss of the forest villager's sweat has affected the gains of the forest co-ops. Many forest co-ops have faced closure due to their inability to pay their taxes. Forest villagers and co-ops have suffered a massive loss of income due to the recent government policy, when forest production turned into a subcontractor system for reasons such as planting and service. The forest villager was practically a contractor's worker. The arrangements seem to be aimed at boosting the income of the forest peasant, but the point that comes is that the contractor and subcontractor are meant to make more profits. The arrangements must be made for the forest peasant to get what he deserves by giving up these practices. Cutbacks are not enough to bring significant income to the forest peasant, they need to be raised to higher levels. While Turkey's cadastro was being built, forest villages failed to get the necessary priority, bringing problems. The reason why these villages have been working in cadastro studies over the past few years is because of the legislation that these lands are often faced with the challenges of measuring land and identifying them in the name of the treasure. The problems mentioned briefly above are some of the problems of forest villagers and forestry cooperatives. In order to investigate the problems of forest villagers and forestry co-ops and to determine solution proposals, we propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research on the basis of Articles 104, 105 of the Constitution's 98th and Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Bolu]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] 8) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 13) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] 25) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The PM has a thesis, I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the 1st joke (b) of Articles No. 2935 and Article 3 (b) of the State of Emergency Act No. 2035, 21/7/2016 across the country, it is 1 p.m. on Thursday (21/7/2016). It was dated 20/7/2016 for 90 days, and the image of the Council of Ministers' Decision 2016/9064 was sent in connection with the declaration of the state of emergency. I'll give you what you need. Government? He's in position. Now, I'm going to discuss the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. The government will be promised to the groups and to the two MPs on behalf of its person. The government and groups have a 20-period period, and the time of speaking on behalf of individuals is ten minutes. His first statement was demanded by the government by the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ. Here you go, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0003par0207	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the headquarters of the Salvation War, which was never closed in the beginning of the War of Liberation, was a central center of defending our democracy, defending our national will, defending our democracy, defending our national will, and defending human rights and honor as of July 15, 2016. On this occasion, I salute the Veteran Assembly once again, thank you all separately. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On July 15, 2016, a group of soldiers, who appear to be members of the Fethullahist terrorist organization, which is our country's and our nation's pupil of the Turkish Armed Forces, attempted a treacherous coup against the government and under the command and command of Fethullah Gülen. During this coup attempt, the Chamber of the Presidential Assembly, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Prime Ministership, the Chief of Staff, the General Command of the Chief of Staff, the MIT compounds, the throat bridges, the TRT buildings, the Police Special Operations Centre and security units and various military units have been under heavy armed attack. The coup attempt by the low and treacherous group of members of the Turkish Armed Forces, under the command and command of the Fethullahist terrorist organisation, the coup attempt by our Prime Minister and ministers in the Turkish Armed Forces, first to fly to Istanbul and land on Istanbul with the national will, the Turkish Grand National Assembly in the presidency of our Parliament, the watch of democracy until morning, the MP, the CHP, the AKP, the AK PARTI group, and the members of the armed forces, the daring and upright position of our ministers, the daring and upright movement of our political parties, the move against the coup, and the movement of our media, and the fact that we stand together with all of them, should stand under the pressure of the Ottoman Empire, the United States, and the majority of the United States, and all sides of the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States of Turkey, the United States and the United States. On this occasion, we express our heartfelt gratitude to our President, our Prime Minister, our Parliament Speaker, our esteemed members of our Parliament, our political parties, our media, our civil society organizations, the civil society organizations, the people's rights, who say, "The people's rights," who say, "We respect the will of the people." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, for the first time in the history of the Republic, Parliament has been bombed out of the air. When the enemy invaded our homeland, Parliament heard the sound of cannons and saw the ball itself for the first time. The fact that an attack by a gang within the Turkish Armed Forces, even our enemies did not do, is a highly thought - inspiring betrayal. The aimless shooting of our civilian citizens, the shooting of people with snipers, the martyring of tanks on innocent people, the burning of bombs and automatic weapons, all of this is just some concrete example of a brutal coup attempt by this terrorist organization. Now, within the framework of the decision made by the National Security Council yesterday, our government has passed on to the Council of Ministers its view that the terrorist organization that attempted to coup was to be eliminated with all its elements and speed, and then our democracy and our legal state, our nation, the national will and the threat to our country, never to be repeated, not to be repeated, and to ensure that the measures that need to be taken in this regard to this matter should be quickly and decisively taken into effect. Our Council of Ministers, which has been convened under the Constitution under our president's presidency, has decided to declare a state of emergency in Turkey for three months in accordance with this view. This decision was published in the Official Gazette, July 21, 2016, and was sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the same day. Mr. President, according to our Constitution, the state of emergency, in case of dangerous epidemics, in the presence of severe economic depression, and in the presence of serious symptoms of widespread acts of violence aimed at eradicating free democracy or fundamental rights and freedoms established with the Constitution, can be declared as a result of a serious breakdown of public order due to violence. In this framework, to prevent the attempted coup attempt in Turkey, in the future, to prevent the attempt to destroy our state with a repeat of the failed coup attempt, to protect the freedom of free democracy established by the Constitution, to protect basic rights and freedoms, to protect general security, security and public order, to protect the violence, to destroy our elected President and government, to destroy our state, such as a cancerous cell in Turkey, to harm our public order, to undermine our economy, our democracy, our law state, our state, our state, our state of state, our state, and our nation's security, as well as our nation's security. In fact, we wouldn't need this decision if our government had the opportunity to take these steps quickly without declaring a state of emergency. Because Turkey has ruled many crises, but the crisis we face is not like other crises. I'd like to express in particular that the people closest to our president -- here, from his aide to others -- can't be seen in spite of all the research, meticulous supervision. Despite the thoroughness of the general staff's commanding officer, chief of staff, driver, bodyguard, other commanders' officers and many other state structures, the fact that they have not been noticed in spite of all the care, shows that we are facing a great danger, which is very invisible, but completely exposed. Now, why is it that we can't get results and we can't see them, even though we're fighting them so much? I want to express a friend's answer in particular from here: they're even doing this to God, and it's not that hard for them to put up a fight against me. Those who deceive God deceive everyone. Those who deceive God and his people continue to deceive everyone again with God. (Applause from CHP rows) So the necessity and implementation of this extraordinary decision at which we are all to act together and fight against them is a clear necessity. Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, this extraordinary decision is not a state of emergency against the nation; it is essentially the state's state of emergency here, and our government has declared it an extraordinary work and mobilization. When you look at the extraordinary state of things before this, we see that the state has applied it to the nation and has declared it against the nation. But here, it's a necessary and necessary step in making sure that this structure, which is wrapped up and hidden in the structure of our state, will soon be removed from the state device, purged, cleaned up, our state, our democracy, our nation, will never again pose a threat and a threat to our Parliament. A different reflection of this extraordinary state of mind by action from here, the bans will come, these restrictions will come, and it would be a big mistake to make an assessment in this way. There are powers in the State of Emergency Law, but not all of these powers are used when the State of Emergency is declared, and they are not mandatory. The authorities, the duties will be on the governor's payroll, and when the governors see the need, they will make these decisions. It would be extraordinarily wrong to make an assessment, as if these practices had already begun in Turkey, and we would have made a tremendous mistake. There is no declaration of martial law here, there is absolutely no transfer of administration to the military, the administration is under civil administration. The governors' activities are increased, the powers of the governors are increased, the ability to make quick decisions and implement them. This is an extremely important step. It may have some reflections, of course, towards the economy, towards other areas of our lives, but I'm telling you very clearly, there's not going to be any step towards the economy. Honourable lawmakers, the State's State of Emergency decision, as I have just made clear, is to ensure that the state performs its duties in a short period of time with extraordinary speed and determination, and all elements belonging to the Fethullahist terrorist organization within the state, and to prevent a new coup from being repeated in Turkey. Right now, the coup attempt on July 15, 2016 has been unsuccessful, but there are steps we must take to prevent it from happening again. There could be behinds, there could be new versions of it some other time. If we move forward as if nothing has happened after we've been through such a great deal, we will allow this danger to be reflected in the future, which we have not seen in 40 years, to become a greater danger for all of us in the future. Therefore, our government will continue to take every step in order to protect our democracy, our legal state, our national will, and our country, in this framework, in accordance with the responsibility our nation and our Constitution have imposed upon it. Let's just say that the state of emergency will not negatively affect any economic, social, cultural and so forth. This extraordinary state will not have a negative impact on the economy, investments, planning, as it is not a state of emergency that has been declared for economic reasons. There will be no regulation on the economy and other areas. The state of emergency is not a martial law; the administration will not be in the military, law enforcement will not be in the military authorities; certain crimes will not be handed over to military courts; the administration will be in civil will, not military, and civil will will more effectively execute governance. Therefore, the fact that the state of emergency has been declared will never bring extraordinary changes in the lives of our citizens. In fact, this extraordinary state is to ensure the permanence of the usual state. The extraordinary situation, which occurred on July 15, 2016, will mean that it is not permanent, that it is impossible to repeat, that the representatives of the nation are standing, that the whole of the extraordinarys and the extraordinarys should be terminated quickly. What are we gonna do? We're going to move a number of law-enforcement decrees to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And the fact that the decrees of this law have been issued to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, that the laws of the law have been issued, does that mean that some things have been taken from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? No. Why do we care about the laws of the law? Because there's a fire in the middle, we have water to put out the fire, we can. This is a time when we have to be busy pouring water in there and putting out that fire. Losing time will only result in the growth of this danger. As soon as the provisions are published in the Official Gazette, steps will be taken immediately as they enter into force, but the decree will be transferred to Parliament, and the Parliament shall be subject to a law within a month of consultation according to Article 128. Thus, there is no question that they will be abducted from Parliament, that they will not be given to the control of Parliament's will; again, Parliament will present its will to correct it, if there are flaws, if there are errors. This is not a coup against Parliament; it is a declaration of the coup against those who want to bomb Parliament, against those who want to destroy this great roof, against the nation and the nation's Parliament, against the Constitution and the law. We announce it, we don't do secret business. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We're doing this by the authority we received from the nation, from the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0004par0220	Mr. Secretary, please complete in two minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0003par0221	I'm ending it, Mr. President. We don't do this in secret. Whatever we say to our people, we'll continue to do it in a state of emergency. We put in three months, but we don't have to complete these three months. Our goal is to take steps in less than three months, to do what we do, and to restore the state of emergency without delay. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Because, our problem, I just said, is to put out the fire and prevent the repeat of this fire; to investigate our democracy, our legal state, our national will, to secure it. And after that, that won't be necessary. According to our plans, we will complete this in three months, at the latest, but we will do everything we can to complete it earlier. I express my gratitude to the presidents of the political parties acting together in the face of the coup attempt 15-16 July 2016, to the members of parliament, to the members of the group, to the leaders of the group, to the media who show solidarity, to the civil society, to all who believe in our saintly nation and democracy, on behalf of our government separately, and to say once again that this State of Emergency decision was taken to repel attacks against democracy, against national will.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0005par0225	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Sir, now we're going to talk on behalf of the groups. On behalf of the groups, the first speech is from Manisa MP, Group Deputy President Erkan Akçay, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, sir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0006par0231	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the National Party of Actions for three months to announce the state of emergency in the country, which the government has submitted to our Supreme Assembly. As I begin with my words, I salute your honored delegation and the saintly Turkish nation following this historic session. On the evening of July 15, 2016, a group of Turkish Armed Forces attempted to coup and take over, facing an extraordinary and illegitimate situation in the Republic of Turkey. With democracy and an illegal approach, in our recent history, another one of the coups that have caused great suffering and deep scars in the Turkish nation has experienced one of the darkest days in the history of the Republic of Turkey. On July 15, the General Staff headquarters was occupied; police buildings, state television, private channels, intelligence agencies, roads, bridges, airports, military bases and regions were blockaded, tanks were attacked, tanks were launched on the streets, and our Grand Veteran Assembly was bombed and shot seven times. Our citizens, who want to react in the streets against the launch, have been targeted by fire by the coupgers. On the night of July 15th, July 16th, 246 citizens were killed and 1.536 citizens were injured. We wish our martyrs the grace of God and the healing of our wounded. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. On July 15th, the evil enterprise is an attempt to ignore democracy, law and national will. This initiative has not only targeted elected government or lawmakers, but the entire Turkish nation, national will and all institutions of the Republic of Turkey. In this coup attempt, the Turkish nation's unity and brotherhood were targeted and our country was sought to enter a chaos. The National Movement Party has opposed this treacherous attempt from the very beginning, and has made it clear that the Republic of Turkey, its institutions, government, democracy, and law stand firm. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, in the wake of these grave events, the Council of Ministers of the President has made an extraordinary decision for three months, starting at one point this evening. First of all, I'd like to point out that the state of emergency is constitutional. In Article 119 of the Constitution, a state of emergency and severe economic crisis can be declared, in Article 120, due to the widespread spread of violence and the serious decomposition of public order. The state of emergency is also regulated by Law 2935. The State of Emergency decision was made after the coup attempt by a congregation-like terrorist organization that had been donated within the state. Of course, the state will fight terrorism and parallel structures, and it should, but I'd like to bring one thing to your attention. The guise of the congregation has just been registered as a terrorist organization. Clearly, we should not ignore the processes that came from yesterday to today. For the laughing congregation, as we called it, someone took care of it. Let him come to Turkey, shut down his activities, answer his claims. As we said, someone took care of him. We didn't prophesy that day, we didn't tell fortune tellers; we saw the facts of Turkey nationally, we interpreted them. If our President-General had listened to his warnings about this organization, the palettes wouldn't be on the streets on July 15th, our coven wouldn't be bombed, our nation wouldn't be shot, our 246 citizens wouldn't have lost their lives. We've been following these warnings for years, acting on a democratic and national responsibility, and we're going to continue this principled stance today. Turkey cannot leave law and democracy under any circumstances. The Constitution and the law have drawn the framework of the state of emergency. The purpose of this exceptional management process has been determined in the statement we discussed today. Political interests and goals must not be pursued in a new operational situation, without being absolutely out of bounds set in the thesis. We'll keep a close eye on the State of Emergency practices, and in the meantime, we'll continue to make the necessary warnings. It's the crisis of government and government that brings our country to this day. The point of personal and arbitrary management is the 15th of July. There's a problem with not being able to manage well behind the incidents. If you don't give the job to the people, if you don't run the country by institution and by rules, if you run the country personally and happily, you'll hear from your brother-in-law about the coup. I thought the Undersecretary of MIT was your secret. Did he keep these secret secrets to himself? One of the most controversial concepts after the July 15 coup attempt is the weakness of intelligence. I'd like to express our regret on behalf of our nation and our state for the fact that this concept has become a mandatory, almost fashion statement. We've been paying attention to this subject since the terrorist activities at the railway station, in the District of State, in Kızılay, in Istiklal Street, in Ataturk Airport. But they said: "There is no weakness of intelligence." They say today: "There is weakness of intelligence." We say that intelligence is also due to the weakness of governance. This weakness must be removed immediately. Of course, if the National Intelligence Agency is not well managed by law enforcement agencies and state regulations, someone will infiltrate the institutions and dare to commit all sorts of atrocities. The timely assessments have not been taken into account, our warnings as the National Movement Party have not been heard. Haven't you ever read the paper? Since 2014, concrete warnings have been made about the development of this coup. Okay, say you didn't pay attention to the papers, then you didn't know about the men closest to you either? Command officers, petty officers, private pencils, unfortunately, have been inside this coup counter and involved in an act of treason. Dear lawmakers, there's not only a weakness of intelligence here, as I've expressed, because we have to stress it over and over again because of the sensitivity of the issue, there's a weakness of governance. A group of armed forces are preparing a coup, which no commander of forces supports, but today he is detained on charges of a coup of about one-third of the generals and admirals. We'll tell you this: there's a weakness of intelligence, but there's no weakness of management. We can't say that. If there was an intelligence, there wouldn't be a fethullahist terrorist organization. We can't accept that statement. Who's been running the National Intelligence Agency, the Police Intelligence Agency for years? It is also another bet that General Staff Intelligence is connected to the MIT. Dear lawmakers, we regret to inform you that it is the weakness of governance, not of intelligence that makes this organization a monster, allowing it to run as it pleases the public, allowing it to become a social and bureaucratic organization. The number of public personnel suspended and detained after the July 15 coup attempt has exceeded 50,000. With such a high number, entering the State of Emergency raises some concerns. Applications must be done on the basis of extremely careful, meticulous and concrete data. Don't let the old man burn with it. This care and attention should not only be directed to the Fethullah terrorist organization, but also to other terrorist organisations, and other terrorist organisations should never be kept out of focus. In a state of emergency, new victims must be prevented. In this process for public personnel, it must be avoided personalisation and political debates. We wish for July 15th to be a nation. First, we need to determine where it was wronged. We can't pretend nothing happened, so we can get the diagnosis right so the treatment works out fine. Dear lawmakers, we need to assess the developments yesterday, today and tomorrow with perspective. What caused what happened to us yesterday, and what will be the consequences and reflections of what happened to us today? The State of Emergency resolution is said to have been an action against the Fethullahist terrorist group following the coup attempt. That goal is incomplete. As I was trying to say earlier, this organisation is not the only parallel organisation in Turkey today, and it is not the only danger. In our eastern and southeast regions, the PKK is facing the KCK and another dangerous structure. Therefore, the State of Emergency decision must include the fight against PKK terror organisations and all other terrorist organisations. He's in the army barracks, east and southeast. The separatist terror is involved in reshape by turning this situation into an opportunity. When we come to this day, it is of course a healthy development for the government to act in accordance with our president's warnings six years ago, but once again, I would like to emphasize that in the State of Emergency, any terror that has caused trouble to our country must be fought against. Our country is under extraordinary circumstances. We have to get out of these conditions with insight, no danger, no crisis. Attempts to create a state of feasibility have taken the state out of its grasp. On July 15th, the coup attempt was intended to create a de facto situation, but with the decisive resistance of our nation and state institutions, there is also a crisis in state administration. The final situation is to break the Constitution and the law. We, the National Movement Party, are opposed to any kind of coup, any kind of actual situation. The nationalist Movement Party's stance is not conjunctural, but principled; it must be well understood. If we believe in democracy, we must oppose any kind of de facto situation, armed or unarmed. In order to fight coup attempts, we need to operate the current system well within the framework of law and democracy. So with this extraordinary procedure, constitutional democratic institutions must be quickly put to work. Those who govern the state must stand up to all kinds of verbs. In particular, operational situations that can be created within the State of Emergency should be carefully observed. All shall obey the Constitution, all shall obey the law, and all shall be governed by the institutions and rules of the state. Dear lawmakers, there is no doubt that we need a pick-up, a refresher. This renewal applies to all institutions of the state. However, there is no need to reinvent America. All we have to do is rule the country by institutional and arbitrary understanding. We're going to take care of the democratic savings and consciousness we've been saving for years, and we're going to get through this together. We'll never change our national unity and unity. The Republic of Turkey is not a tent and tribal state. We can't accept any grounds based on separation from democracy, coup attempt, intermediary regimes or regime changes. We have to act with common mind and will against every blow and every actual situation, against democracy and unlawful pursuit. We must act patiently, and we must stick to the guidance of common sense. We must carefully avoid carrying water into the mill of the cruel game that is being played on our national unity and brotherhood. We must build our future together in the framework of law and democracy. We must find solutions to Turkey's problems by remaining legitimate and loyal. The solution is democracy, the exit is democracy, the framework of solution should be limited to democracy. Mr. President, as a result, the National Movement Party will stand by the state of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation in such a dark and difficult time, regardless of the cost, no illegitimateness or ganging. The application of state of emergency across the country is a sound and appropriate choice. As the National Movement Party, we will vote positively for the state of emergency across the country, which the Council of Ministers has requested from our great Parliament for three months. I sincerely hope that this three-month extraordinary practice will bring peace, peace, and peace to our country as soon as possible, and that democracy and law will be unwaveringly imposed, and I salute our great Assembly.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0007par0248	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On behalf of the groups, the second orator belongs to the People's Democratic Party Group, Adana MP, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş. Here you go, ma'am. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0008par0253	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. After the coup attempt on July 15th, I have made a pledge that the House will be united today due to a state of emergency. In fact, our social memory, our recent history, and the system that the Constitution envisions is in need of a detailed assessment and discussion. But today we're going through an extraordinary time. Of course, in the face of the coup, the opposition of all the people of Turkey, all the political parties, the broadest components of society, even the entire community is very valuable, and the Parliament must first know the value. Well, when there's such a huge social consensus in the face of the coup, we need to evaluate it very strongly, if we really need to revitalize Turkey's social memory again. Dear MPs, there's no time to offer a historical background, but let me just say that the OHL, which was put into practice in 1987, has been extended 46 times, so let's know that and meet 6 governors of the State of State and how this country has deepened the gap between citizens and the state, how great right violations, how great rights violations, destruction, migration, massacres, torture has been committed to us, books, history. We're talking about living witnesses, victims, and a place that knows what kind of system the State of Emergency system is. Seriously, the State of Emergency system, it's just a 430 decree that never came out of our memory. He predicted this, and I remind him, that at the point of the use of the powers granted to the Minister of the Law and to the Governor of the State of State and to the governors of the State of the State of State, the charge of criminal, financial, legal responsibility could not be put forward and would not be applied to any judicial authority for this purpose. There have been hundreds of thousands of migrations; many meaningless, ineffective bans have been imposed. According to data from human rights organizations operating in Turkey, about 4,000 settlements were evacuated at this time and over 3 million people were forced to emigrate, and what happened at the time came to the attention of torture and maltreatment, perhaps by feeding the villagers feces, but torture was not the limit, indeed, with arbitrary practices. It interfered with work for workers and workers. So, what does the State of Emergency now require to be implemented, and what will bring us to our lives? All citizens of Turkey have the right to know and discuss these things. In a moment, the government's presentation is no doubt crucial, and we'll evaluate it, but what does the law say? Because the State of Emergency Law, like the Constitution, is a law brought by coupgers. While we fight the coup, we embrace the laws of the coupters; it's a great irony. And we need to discuss this very, very strongly. Now, why do we call it a state of emergency? No. I'm going to explain it in a broad way, but right now, this bloody coup attempt, which the high command level of the TSK has not joined, has actually been quickly suppressed by the public, the President and the government, as well as by the opposition and the media. We've all lived these days in such a strong way. Thousands of military personnel and several police officers have been taken into custody in the Armed Forces. There's no need to share the numbers. According to the government and the Chief of Staff, a complete and absolute control of the entire country was provided as of July 17th. These are official statements. Let us not forget that both control and the Constitution itself are linked to the practice of state of emergency, the order of free democracy, or widespread acts of violence aimed at eliminating fundamental rights and freedoms. So, in this context, when we consider this, the extraordinary declaration of state will have no function except to suspend the basic democratic rights of Turkey into the time tunnel. We want to stress it over and over again. The other will begin a process of governance under the rule of law. Right, Mr. Justice Minister just said in his statement that this would be submitted to Parliamentary approval. It will be submitted to Parliament approval according to the Constitution, but the process of discussion, the process of the debate, the process of the law's discussion, all those parliamentary talks here are completely ignored, disabled, and most importantly, the process is already being carried out during the time it is submitted to ratification. Everything that needs to be done during a month has been taken every step of the way. In this case, we need to discuss this very strongly: With this extraordinary declaration of state, the Parliament, which stands in a single body against the coup, is actually being shut down. This is a very, very important matter. The beginning of a process that will be governed, run by decrees under the rule of the law has been set in motion. There will be more discussion about this, but we hope that the practice will deceive us, and hope that the days to come will deceive us, and we want it from the heart. The other, of course, can't be sued by the Constitutional Court for judicial decrees, and everything is suspended, as it is. In fact, the Constitution predicts and accepts that the decisions issued by the government during the state of emergency would be contrary to the Constitution, with the constitutional regulation not to be carried out in accordance with the Constitution. That's the Constitution. Finally, we know that it's recent history, and you all know that the implementation of Turkey in the state-of-the-art regime, which has been extended 46 times every four months by the Council of Ministers' decision from July 19, 1987 to November 30, 2002, when it was completely removed. We can't ignore that, and we wish and wish again that this extraordinary state is only temporary. I hope our social memory doesn't come back to life. Dear friends, the additional powers are too much. I'm sure all my fellow lawmakers know this by heart, but let's not forget, there are statements from the government's mouth that there will be no curfew, no fundamental rights and freedoms suspended, but we can't ignore the law. This law has the authority to suspend any rights; to go out on the street, to travel in certain places, to change vehicle routes, to search people's clothes, to search their belongings, to carry IDs across the country. Yesterday, someone called him "The State of Emergency" and told him to go home once in a while and find his identity, because there's no way to get out without an ID. It seems simple, but it's very vital in normal life. Again, the newspapers are given a very strong mandate and collection control over the media-released organs. Many restrictions can be made on this, rather than decrees on the law, are the presumptions of the law. The probation period is one of the most important issues, one of the most controversial issues since yesterday. Yes, the duration of the detention period was shortened in 1992 under the ECHR decisions, but the maximum number of days were determined in mass crimes, but the Constitution remains in place, according to the Constitution's ruling, there is no limit to the state-of-the-art detentions. Because according to the Constitution, the period of detention is said to be extended in the state of emergency, martial law, and the state of war, and the upper limit is not specified; this is a source of serious concern.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0009par0263	Mr. President, there's a big hum in the living room. Is it possible to give a warning? We can't track it. There's a big hum in the living room, we can't track it.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0008par0264	Yeah, it's a big hum.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0010par0265	Sir, it's humming, please let's keep our peace. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0008par0267	Dear MPs, enough about the State of Emergency, the system. But do we really need to bring this system to Turkey? Today, this is the most important issue the House needs to discuss, the Parliament needs to discuss. I was referring to the anti-violence social consensus. Yes, the historical opportunity to take a step towards democracy through this social consensus is actually repelled, rejected by this State of Emergency decision. This social peace must be used in the opposite direction, in the direction of democracy, in the direction of rights and freedoms. We, the People's Democratic Party, have always said that there has been a coup since June 7th; that November 1 was actually a coup, that the elected representatives of the people... were, in spite of the Constitution, carried out by the decision of power and by the President and by the saving of all institutions and boards. This has been discussed over and over from this bench. So, what does it mean for democracy right now, for the State of Emergency, to celebrate the State of Emergency with a democracy watch? I'm glad I'm drinking this poison. I'm glad I'm being given this poison. Is there any point in saying it? We need to face facts. We're here on behalf of the public, and the future of the people, the law that narrows down the people's living spaces, the big debate against proposals, the broad discussion. We're the only party to recommend the summit of leaders. There have been calls from our co-Chairs to gather leaders about the common position of the parties against this coup, and that the coup may be consolidated, based on compromise, but I'm afraid our call to the summit was never discussed or taken into consideration. We're still getting this call. Well, there have been many explanations today, and one of them is Yalçın Akdoğan. Just like this: "Normal citizens will not be harmed by this State of Emergency. " Who is a normal citizen? How are we really going to separate these citizens? The citizen on the street isn't normal, so it's perfectly normal these days, so I'm just saying general practice. Citizens who form an association, who are opposing, who speak, who write, who criticize power on television, or who play politics in different political parties, are they normal, except for the ruling party? It's our basic right to look for the answer. There can be no such unfortunate explanation, it's unfortunate to separate citizens as normal and unregistered. We'd like to make a note of that, too. From the beginning, the prediction that the coup mechanics expressed by Mr. Ocalan has been in operation and that democracy, rights and freedoms are the only solution to prevent this mechanics. Here's the only way to stop this pulse mechanics, to end it, of course, more democracy is more freedom. Again, there is an explanation for Mr. Numan Survivmiş today: the AIHS will be suspended for the duration of the State of Emergency. Yes, it is based on constitutional and international contracts, under the exception of Article 15. No one will be affected, they say, but the fact that the AIHS is on hold is an important note for us to see how big the consequences are. What is the 15th article? Let me put it in a sentence: the right to live, the right to torture, the ban on slavery and forced labor, no illegal punishment, but right now we're all really watching horror torture images, torture claims, and rhetoric. Torture can never be tolerated under any circumstances or circumstances, no matter who it is against. Torture and support in a democratic country are unacceptable; we need to have a very clear stance against opponents, even against coupters. In this regard, Mr. Türkan Evoyhan has a saying -- the wife of my dear friend Tahir Ebaş said: "Even if you catch the people who killed my wife, do not torture them. As the wife of a man who devoted his life to fighting torture, he said, "I do not accept this." (Applause from HDP rows) This great virtue is that we all really need to think about this great maturity, and right now, the push to suppress the coup should not touch rights and freedoms and the essence of rights. This does not mean that the opposition should be targeted as a whole. The images, unfortunately, are not promising about this, but from now on, we really want to do our warning carefully and carefully again. Now, another issue, dear friends -- there's not much of a process -- but we see that a significant part of the coupgers who were arrested these days have committed war crimes in Kurdish provinces, crimes against humanity, perpetrators of these things -- they've already been done there, they've already been done there. We are already declaring that we will do and never abandon this call: the coupists who have burned hundreds alive in Şırnak, Nusaybin, Diyarbakır, or other cities, who bombed 34 villagers in Roboski, and committed war crimes and crimes against humanity every day cannot only be tried for coups. These crimes must be brought before the court and the government must provide the greatest guarantee in this matter because in other processes, Ergenekon and the Balyoz process, unfortunately they did not enter court files, they were not put on indictments, and they were asked to cover the crimes. If we want to deal with the blow, if we really want to prevent the impacts from happening again, we must certainly answer for all the crimes. Dear friends, in this regard, the ruling party has had several explanations for the State of Emergency since 2002. Mr. Minister of Justice has just said: "This is about the state's cleanness, about the device." Now, I said in the Constitution, the Constitution does not answer that. Tens of thousands of people have already been relieved of duty since July 15th. However, we also want to be careful about our warning: We are also receiving arrests and arrests from many opponents who have no real connection with the coupgers. If this becomes an operation to purge the opposition, we will stand against it as the People's Democratic Party. Let me give you one example of this: the academics who signed the 10 academics who were suspended from Van Hundred Years University. Meanwhile, while tens of thousands of people are being deposed, this will never be acceptable to the opposition, and we must all stand against it. As the People's Democratic Party, we have given the road map of the coup over and over as a democracy, and the solution to the Kurdish issue is the most important step towards democracy. Without peace with Kurds, there is no real democracy, a real freedom regime, and there is no talking about real democratic rights and freedoms in this country, and the facts that have brought us to this day, the incidents, the conflicts in Kurdish provinces in the region, the oppression of crimes against humanity, and the demands of rights and freedom, strongly, are oppressed. We are now proposing over and over again that the solution process and the Dolmabahçe Covenant are one of the most controversial issues these days. If we're defending democracy, if we're defending the will of the people, we need to put it in front of us strongly. Now we're being given a choice, we're being asked to make a choice between coup or non-democratic governments. We don't prefer either, we refuse to be forced to make that choice. Our preference for democracy is to expand democratic rights and freedoms. I may not have been able to get myself to listen to you, but in the final sentence, I'd like to say that the State of Emergency decision...
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0011par0283	Mr. Beştaş, can you wrap it up in two minutes?
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0008par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, this choice thing really stands in front of all of us. We'll all vote today. Are we going to prefer a system that has evolved into one human administration with all its institutions and boards since June 7th or a coup? That can't happen. We prefer democracy, and for that, we refuse to let Parliament go. We say that Parliament's work should continue in a stronger way. We want to remove the obstacles in front of civil society, in front of freedom of press and publication, in front of the work. Women can't go out on the streets right now, for example, because there's no time for that. But, in impacts, in war environments, and in this kind of madness, the biggest target is women, who are excluded from their social habitats. In this period, the words of sexist, unspeakable words were encouraged to remove women's living spaces. So, as women of the Turkish community and half the world, we are against this coup, but we are against antidemocratic governments. In democracies, we want to express that women can build women's freedom with more rights and freedoms, and they can live with that. In conclusion, we express our preference very clearly: We will definitely say no to the State of Emergency decision. Because "expect circumstances" means suspending citizens' rights and freedoms, which means narrowing citizens' living spaces. The government's clean-up and moves to eliminate coups can be made within the existing legal limits; proposals can come, we can evaluate them. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0012par0289	The third speech on behalf of the groups belongs to the Republican People's Party Group's Aydın MP, Vice President-General Mr. Bulent Tezcan. Here you go, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0013par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on the night of July 15th, which connects July 16th, we have been faced with a vicious attack on the entire system of the Turkish Republic and the parliamentary democracy that has long been established within the state, like a cancerous uur, a terrorist ring, a terrorist organization, the Fethullahist terrorist organization. A junta within the Turkish Armed Forces has long been on the verge of a major threat to Turkey, thinking they can trample the 100-year savings of parliamentary democracy, with the courage they've taken from the armed forces' attempts to liquidate the command level and the courage they've taken from public staffing.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0014par0296	Mr. President, step in.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0013par0297	Guys, I'll take it from here, so just relax. Don't listen, don't listen, don't listen, don't listen, don't listen, don't listen, don't listen, don't listen, don't listen, don't listen, You guys listen.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0015par0298	One moment, sir. Sir, please follow the meeting in silence. If there's going to be an interview, please take it outside. Thank you. Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0016par0302	Dear friends, our parliamentary democracy savings in the Republic of Turkey has given a very important test against this treacherous coup attempt. First of all, the political institution has not surrendered to the coup d'états. The ruling and opposition parties, the main opposition party and other opposition parties, have made it very clear that they are against the coup. Mr. President, at the first moment, we are opposed to any kind of blow, wherever it comes from. Other political parties, the Prime Minister, the ministers and the government gave an important test at this point, and it is a wonderful experience that for the first time in our country that has faced coups since many years, the will to face a social consensus against coups has been shown. Parliament has shown this will. The political institution has shown this will. (Applause) The nation has shown that it will brave any attack against national will. I thank all our citizens, political institutions, our nation who resist the coup. We were here that night under this roof with our deputies. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the only parliament in history in the world that holds its name and title, and on the night of July 15th, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has once again recorded that it deserves the title of "Gazi Parliament." [[A round of applause from CHP, EC PARTY and the Council of Ministers]] Dear friends, on that day there were no Republican People's Party, Justice and Development Party, National Movement Party, Peoples' Democratic Party members, here were representatives of the nation, leaving all political distinctions aside. In the process of violating the rights and laws of the nation, the people had the will and the will to hold hands against all attacks. Why am I saying this? Of course, until today, we'll talk about how we got here. Politics can't build a future without solving how this coup attempt is organized within the state, this gang that has surrendered the state. We know all that. With what means to eliminate the state's system of integrity, not by merit, but by the time we try to establish a state organization based on loyalty or start to perceive the government as a political skill, we've all seen what the disaster would be without party distinction. So that's what we'll know when we start the next process. Look, 18 of the 25 generals who were promoted from colonel to general at the Army Command in the High Military Division in 2013 today are in prison, in custody. Seven of the eight admirals -- eight of whom were promoted as admirals in the Navy in 2013 -- are in prison as a member of a communityist terrorist organization, a member of a Fethullahist terrorist organization, a coup entrepreneur. None of this happened by accident. Dear friends, I'm not saying this today, and I'm not saying this because you did this yesterday, and you did this in the past. It's just that in the process, we've come to an important understanding, we've put the past behind us. We'll discuss the past in the future. When we get together to restore Turkey's shaken public order, rights and freedoms, we will discuss calmly, not in the atmosphere of a polemic, not in the mood to blame each other. We'll remember that. Now that we're done with the past, we're moving on. Why do I say it? On July 15th, we gave the signal of a great understanding with the political institution, with the nation, with the political parties, with the state organs that resist the coup, with the public officials. Now, this, this union, this agreement, has to be kept alive in order to establish Turkey from now on. If we abandon this obligation, forget this obligation, and throw aside what happened that day, if we forget how we fought hand in hand when bombs were being thrown at us in Parliament that day, a power, government, holding power, we'll be dragged back into the same disaster with envy. So, I'm saying this to Parliament for a very important sign, and I'm saying this for a very important warning, dear MPs. Dear friends, we're past phase one. What was it? We repel the coup attempt, this treacherous ambush. Now step two. We know there are three stages to phase two. It's a phase one reckoning process, phase two normalization process, stage three democratization process. I don't mean the process of reckoning, it's not the process of revenge. The word itself is a word of revenge, so we have to use it very carefully. The reckoning process is a process of accounting in front of the law for everyone who's been on the side of it, who's supported the coup attempt one way or another, contributed. Everyone will answer in front of the law. Within the limits set by the Constitution and law, all will answer for what they have done. That's when the reckoning process remains within the law, within constitutional rules and universal standards, we show that we are different from the coupgers. When we ask the question within the limits of the law of the Constitution, by not recognizing the law, we have fulfilled the need to be a great state, to be a respectable state. (CHP cheers) So the reckoning process is important. Dear friends, for the next normalization process, it is vital that the reckoning remain within the law. Society needs to normalize as soon as possible. We understand the anger of the coup. It is understandable for a citizen to have a desire for revenge, but instead of being serious about it and scratching the public's anger, the political institution has to restrain the public's anger and move society quickly to suhulete and normalization; it is our duty. The way to get back to normal is normal procedure, normal procedure, not extraordinary procedure. If we want to normalize, if we want to quickly normalize within the law, we need the usual methods. Sadly, it is difficult to draw the usual results from extraordinary methods. Dear friends, at the next stage, we have to establish a full democracy over this normalization, a full democracy that together builds a state system based on integrity that is strengthened over fundamental rights and freedoms. It's not due to loyalty, it's the truth that we need to establish a process where people feel safe. How do we do that? My fellow lawmakers, on the night of the coup attempt, Parliament showed this will. At first, I told you, we all stood up to that attack here that night. As soon as each of us had the opportunity, we had the courage to stand up to the coupgers, saying, "Go up with the nation on the witness." So the way out is in this union, not in dissolution, but in this union, the way out is to be able to, together, share the ability to share the construction process while rebuilding the union of will, power and faith from that day on. As far as we can show, Turkey can quickly clean up its history of coup and move towards the future. Look, today the government has brought in a state of emergency on the recommendation of the National Security Council, and we're discussing it. Dear friends, yes, the state of emergency is an arrangement in the Constitution. There's no way to call it an unconstitutional, illegal procedure, an arrangement that exists in our Constitution. It has a place in the Constitution. It may have a place in the Constitution, but in today's environment, it's not politically appropriate, my friends. Dear lawmakers, why isn't it politically appropriate? Yeah, we're dealing with a very big attempt at initiative, a very large gang trying to take over the state, a huge terrorist organization has reached every part of the state; it's not easy to fight it; we know it's not easy to fight it, we know it's important to take important steps to fight it, we've survived the biggest attempt together, but it's not politically appropriate, it's for this: because it's a struggle that requires more than ever to be a partner, it's a struggle that requires more than ever to hold hands, it's a struggle that requires more than ever. For him, we have to implement a solution to parliament's own law, which violates Parliament's rights, as Parliament has held hands, actively, under the bombs at night, and after that, it is not a means that eliminates Parliament, but a solution that puts Parliament at the center of the work. It is not an extraordinary state; it is a way to rule the will of Parliament. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, dear members of the government, for which we say that politics is not appropriate. Why? Because the state of emergency takes out Parliament, because the extraordinary state of state is a method that aims only to gather powers in power and predicts that power will run this process. This harms the spirit that came that night, the spirit of unity, the spirit of resistance. That would undermine the will to fight together within Parliament. Let's make it happen. Look, we, the Republican People's Party Group, are going to support all of your struggles with these coupgers, with this gang, with all of their extensions within the state; there's no hesitation, we're going to fight this together. As a parliamentary group, we will support all the arrangements you will bring to Parliament, we will not oppose any of them, but while the extraordinary situation is fighting them, it can lead to an adventure that does not know where the process will be led, with the influence of the current anger in society or with the great and wonderful pleasure of using power. The way to save democracy, the way to grow democracy, is to fight the usual methods within the law. Now, we see that certain state institutions have taken steps to prevent any criticism for one reason or another. We see on social media that sharing innocent criticism has resulted in arrest or detention by the judiciary. We don't have to say that these are very common right now, but we see the risk and the possibility of spread. In this case, for precisely these reasons, such a psychology shatters the psychology of resistance against the coup on the night of July 15th, 16th; instead of continuing the unity of society on the subject of resistance, it makes it possible for a party of those who hold power and consider themselves part of power to rebuild the process on its own. Dear friends, the power of power is constant to be uncontrollable. It's the nature of power, the nature of power. So today is not the day to complete this process in an extraordinary fashion. Today, on the contrary, it is necessary, necessary, necessary to fight this coup attempt within the constitutional limits of the usual methods. Look, at this stage, we're at a point where we've yet to predict, where we know it can evolve, but I don't think it's right to express it in order not to harm the spirit of the process. On the night of July 15th, the structure of those who went out to resist the coup began to change today. Let's all defend the will of the nation against the coup. Those who set out to defend the will of the nation are now troubled by the propaganda of a certain political will instead of the will of the nation in the squares. (HPP clapping in rows) This structure leads to a very wrong and negative point in the fight that we will now draw against impacts, even in the fight that we will watch. Society can't be kept open to provocations for long. The responsibility of power and the responsibility of the political institution is to take measures to eliminate provocative environments as soon as possible. It is possible only by expanding solidarity, by expanding the spirit that appeared that night. Dear friends, the last thing I'm saying is, this is the House of Veterans. I sang them on this stand that morning. This Veteran Assembly, in its early years, led the National Liberation War, despite the sound of the ball from Poland; this Veteran Assembly led the fight against enemy invasion on the front lines in this country; this Veteran Assembly protected the integrity and honor of Parliament that night, despite the bombings of its own betrayal networks. After that, there's no need to be extraordinary, he'll continue to defend the nation's honor. (CHP cheers) So we don't accept the extraordinary statement of state. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0017par0324	Mr. Bulent, two more minutes, please, wrap it up.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0016par0325	Therefore, as the Republican People's Party, there is no need to be extraordinary, that we can govern this entire process in Parliament's solidarity, that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must be on duty and in action at this time, that it will not benefit any power at this time, that it will not help Turkey, and that we have opposed the extraordinary state of state. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit01spe0017par0328	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0017par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 117th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I'd like to explain why it's been so long between us. Our 11th President, Mr. Abdullah Gul, has come to visit our Parliament and we've made the break for him. All four of our political parties have been here with him, and we've all welcomed him. They're going to visit the Chief of Staff, the Prime Minister, our president. Of course, the attention they show is appreciated by all of our society. As a whole society, these paintings show the distance, the distance that we've all come to at the point of absorbing democracy, it's pleasant in that sense. I thanked them on your behalf, and I hope his visit like this is the end. This unity in the nation, integrity, unity, the insulation of democracy is an expression that Turkey will not be subjected to such coups from now on. This is my entire heart's belief, and I believe, of the General Assembly. [[Applause]] Thank you. The government is in place. We'll resume negotiations with the Prime Minister's Office. On behalf of the groups, the final address is for the Justice and Development Party Group, Amasya MP Deputy Chairman Mehmet Naci Bostancı. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, sir. You've been on for 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0018par0016	Mr. President, dear friends, we always call it the Veteran Assembly, we all know why we call it that. In all the years that have passed on the night of July 15th, I salute the representatives of today's Assembly, who have named the Gazi Assembly after its name. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] We're going through a historic time period. Sometimes when you're witnessing history, you don't realize how deep, how traumatic, how transformative things are inside you. When there's a certain critical distance, when there's a time, the nature of what happened back then is much better understood. But I see that there is a high consciousness, a cold judgment, and a firm stance in all parts of society, as it has been five or six days since today. This is extremely important and rewarding in terms of the country's future. As part of the July 15 coup attempt, the government has brought a state of emergency, and we're talking about it. I listened to the precious speakers, the speakers representing the parties. Indeed, I must tell the spirit of the time that there are talks that bear witness to that historic moment. A cold-blooded mind, a rational judgment, a careful language, a careful language, a frame trying to put the matter in perspective, and as a result, a careful approach to criticism. Basically, it's the language that may always be in the House, but historical times are. The rational politics, those historical moments, they judge what's going on there, they think about the past, they make new conclusions for the future. I'm sure we'll all draw conclusions from these events on behalf of Turkey's future, on behalf of politics, on behalf of the political language, on behalf of this civilized negotiation environment. I thank you very much for all the views that are being put here. The HDP speaker, Mr. CHP speaker, who has said "OHAL is not necessary," emphasised freedoms, a number of public sensitivities as he explained the reasons for it. I assure you, they are as important to us as they are to us, certainly, as friends who mean them. And we care deeply about freedoms, the safety of this community, rights and freedoms. Critics have been voiced in these talks, including coups, traumas to society, all sorts of investigations, prosecutions, determination about those involved in their background, which is important, which is extremely important. Precious friends, the AK PARTY, during its 14-year rule, occasionally some environments are necessary. As we debated at a social level, it did not come to be extraordinary. Turkey entered its extraordinary state of mind on July 19, 1987. Look, on November 18, 2002, the government was formed, and on November 30, 2002, the state of emergency was terminated. As soon as the government is established, the first thing he does is remove the state of emergency. Fourteen years from now, we'll be back with a state of emergency. For 14 years, even if the notions that it was necessary were sometimes made, a will that had not done so, if it was against the Covenary today, it would be necessary to give it a wife and think about it. Dear friends, the Constitution is brought in according to Article 120, you know the technical dimension of the work, technical debates. The Constitution 120 is also expressed in the statement of the thesis. The Constitution refers to Article 120, Article 15. Look, there's a change in the 15th article that we made in 2004. With this change, we're limiting some restrictions and restrictions on a state of emergency. If he reads the second paragraph there, friends: "In cases set in the second joke, no one can be touched with the integrity of a person's material and spiritual existence, except for the deaths of those in accordance with the laws of war; no one can be forced to explain their beliefs, consciences, thoughts, and beliefs; no one can be charged with crimes or punishments in the past; no one can be considered guilty until the court has ruled him guilty." Dear friends, politics is sometimes not a choice between perfect and evil, but a choice between some decisions and bad decisions that you have to make, which you have to do. On July 15th, the community suffered a trauma, a very important, very deep trauma, because so far, our people, who were used to using tanks, planes, armored vehicles, to protect this country, suddenly saw those planes bomb their own Parliament in the sky, seeing those tanks, taken with their own money, walking over their own people, walking through the crowd and opening fire. It's a trauma. Of course, as the Turkish Armed Forces are in no way in the chain of command, many troops, many commanders, are not involved. A gang has organized a structure that we call parallel state formation, which we've been having a lot of discussions about, which is trying to get fans on one side with a comment, and, on the other hand, it's gathering its own fans on a socioeconomic floor, and it's all come out over the top of the two layers, and it's come out over the hours. But at first, we all lived in the very beginning, where the gun, the gun, the gun, was delivered to this nation. It's a trauma. Later on, it was discovered that a significant part of the military was against it and was finally taking a stand for it. In fact, let me point out that all blows are the work of the weak, not the strong. Those who do all the blows are weak in the face of the people. They're also weak, they're also cowards, and they're also a gang that's using the techniques of intimidation, provocation, oppression, intimidation, to try to compensate for its weakness through this kind of social psychology. Dear friends, let me tell you right now, our people are out on the streets, resisting. The place of public movement is actually 200 years old in the history of the world, and it doesn't exist before it does, and in these 200 years of public movement, there are those who fill the squares and resist the despots, there are people's movements that bring down governments that do not represent the will of the people. But what I see and know is that for the first time a nation has resisted a despot's understanding against a gang that has tried to seize its own democratic will. This, in this case, in the history of the world's public movement in Turkey, has surely been put in a separate place. From now on, academically, politically, it will surely be studied. People said, "Get out of a despot movement that wants to seize its own will, he's chasing it in the back of his hand; he's not afraid of the tank in his hand, he's not afraid of the plane." (EC PARTY and CHP rows) Because, dear friends, those who get on board will land; those who enter that tank will come out; and those who walk upon the people in that armored car will surely remove their head from there. Our people know that. Our nation, of course, did not wait for them to come down, nor to come out, but it resisted with its bare hands the weapons of steel, which were willing to create terror and threats to the people to carry out their own plans. I salute our nation, this noble nation, who have always been called a eunuch, who deserves every bit of it, who deserves every bit of it, who has once again stood up to those tanks with their bare hands. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, our process of nationalization is highly debated and debated, whether we are a sociological nation or not. To be a nation is to act with common destiny and a sense of the future. To be a nation -- to be a symbolic example -- you know, Mehmet Pehlivan of Wolfdere says to Ataturk, "What do you think about when you're fighting?" He says, "I'm dreaming about people behind me." He says, "Well, being a nation, being a special forces," he says, "There's a nation behind me." He says, "Who else is there with me?" He says, "Who else is there, without thinking about it?" [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Those who throw themselves at those walking tanks without even thinking about it are proof that we are a nation. How can you force the nation to condemn the nation by the will of a despot against the will of the nation against the band of bandits who walk upon the armored vehicles, who hold the bridge? The heroes who stand against it are the coherons of our nation. Yes, it's a line, you know, a nail, a shoe; a shoe, a horse; a horse, a kingdom; a king, a country. The system that works against the coup in Turkey has been just like this. Once again, I remember the deceased, Erol Olçak, and his son, who walked over the guns in the Bosphorus of Istanbul, who threw himself in front of the tank, whose name I still don't know, as all of our martyrs did. Those people, those people, are examples of how a nail, a horseshoe, a horse, a kingdom, and a country's unity came together systematically. They wrote with their blood the state of this country as a nation, raising the will and democracy of the nation. My dear friends, we never underestimate the coupgers. These are definitely well-planned, with every countermeasure to compensate for their weaknesses at the level of the account book. When the coup starts -- be careful -- their first goal is our President; their first goal is to follow the legitimate forces of this country, police, Special Forces, Special Forces; their first goal is the National Assembly. The question people asked me when my phone started ringing at about nine or ten o'clock was -- we're people from all over, we're politicians, we know what's going on -- I'm telling them directly in their words: let Mr. Tayyip come out and speak to the nation. Mr. Recep also went out and called out to the people. Sometimes it takes a flare to raise the nation's will in those squares, a flare. It's very important that our President's will, as head of the Republic, is to activate that spirit. It's very important that the will of the National Assembly's esteemed representatives to bring those people up against the tanks to defend their will, to ignite civil resistance. The will of all parties, the presidents, is very important. Mr. Kilicdaroğlu has made a statement, Mr. Bahçeli has made a statement, Peoples' Democratic Party has issued a statement against the coup. All of this has shown to the coupgers, in the twilight of the nation, that you have no base. You're a bunch of vague, empty sergens, and these folks are gonna take care of you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, of course, to these people who have raised the will of the nation with their blood, to this day, as we all respect this common spirit, to this day, beyond the words of respect, in politics, in social life, in every field, the criticisms are separate, political competition, civil debates are separate, but we will build the future of Turkey together with an understanding, an approach, a civilized language, a style that never misses the partnerships of the nation. God forbid, if the coupgers had succeeded for a moment, they wouldn't have been able to sit there for more than three days or five days, I'll tell you that. They could sit in that chair, but they couldn't sit in it for more than three days. This country would vomit its coupgers like an abomination. Let all the coupgers know that. If there are any more eager ones, let them have an earful. This country won't give or give to coupgers. Dear friends, the squares, everyone in the squares, everyone in the squares already has voices. I know, on the night of July 15th, I'm the witness to how many different ideas the wounded in the hospitals had, and we're all witnesses to those people. I don't want to give you their names now, but this country has resisted altogether, raised total democracy, still in the square. Rest assured, we can all still make a sound in these squares, if we think it's going in a slightly monolithic direction, we can do everything we can to make it very colorful. What we tell our friends is that these squares are public squares, of course, not any party, but the squares of democracy. All colors of this nation that glorify democracy must raise its voice in these squares. In these squares, my death must also be played, and in these squares the 10th Year's March must also be played, and in these squares should also be played by my beloved brother, and in these squares shall also be played by the Dombra. The nation's unity, all of us, with its symbolic sound embedded in our minds, should all be ringing. We've been in the square together, and let's keep it that way. I'm celebrating the Republican People's Party, which will be in the square on July 24th. I'm calling from here to all Istanbulers: be there, all Istanbulers, if possible, all of Turkey be there, because it's our job. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Dear friends, Stefan Zweig has a book called Moments When the Star of Man Shines, which friends know. Sometimes, in the critical moments of history, people take on critical roles and turn the river of history from one place to another.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0019par0041	Mr. Bostanci, can you wrap this up in two minutes?
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0018par0042	In those critical moments, the decisions they make, the will they show, turn the river of history to another side with courage. That's what Zweig told us from history. So, as a nation, in a critical moment of history against these July 15 coupgers, we poured this river of history, which was meant to be poured out to another side of the nation's will, towards democracy. Happy to be here! Blessed are the people who show us how to defend the will of democracy in the square with their bare fists when necessary! (EC PARTY) Hopefully, from now on, this nation will show firmness in all its positions of solidarity with adventurers who are trying to seize their own will for democracy for common values. Our goal, through this State of Emergency arrangement, is to perform effective, comprehensive results-taking studies against a secret, sneaky, organised structure that poses a major threat to the future of this country. In doing so, it is incumbent upon all of us to act with dignity, to obey the law, to pay utmost attention to citizens' rights and laws. We will continue to respect rights, rights, human rights while we do these studies, we will continue to fight the coupgers, of course. At the last group meeting, the Prime Minister said the Democrats differ greatly and deeply from the coupgers. We call it human rights, freedom and democracy. We're not just saying that, but we represent a determination and will to bring it to the field in the fight against the coupgers. I hope it's approved by the State of Emergency Parliament. The decisive and courageous fight against this gang, which is a great threat to our country, continues with technical support. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0020par0047	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0021par0048	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0020par0049	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0021par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. I got a promise to fix something. At the beginning of his speech, Mr. Bostanci said that on November 30, 2002, our first task was to remove the state of emergency. In order to clarify this issue, we need to explain that the State of Emergency, which was adopted on May 31st, 2002, following the decision of the National Security Council, on July 30, 2002, was decided to remove this extraordinary state by 30 November in one or two counties. Thus, on November 30, 2002, the state of emergency would already be lifted. That's the way it is. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0022par0056	Thank you. He's on the books, sir.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0023par0058	Mr. President, I'd like to request a brief word from the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0022par0059	Here you are, Mr. Idris.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0023par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. We're about to have an important vote. The four political parties, which have been buried under the roof of this parliament, have shown very clear stances against the July 15 coup attempt, and have shown a historic stance that condemns and condemns this coup attempt. Now, we're discussing the exit from this coup. We, the People's Democratic Party, have from the very beginning stated that the most basic values we must embrace to eliminate such a risk are democracy, the law state, social peace and human rights. Today, I would like to rephrase our proposal once again. The application of extraordinary state is a system where fundamental rights and freedoms have been suspended, which has been disabled in some way by the House, which has become the ratification authority of law enforcement, and constitutional control has been eliminated. We, the MPs sitting in this line, have a close memory of the state of emergency practices, warning the House one last time. This arrangement may not serve as an exit from the impact floor, but with antidemocratic practices, it can serve to blur the present environment further. Especially since this decision has been made on the National Security Board, which does not foresee the impact of his own co-worker, his co-worker, right under his nose. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish, Mr. President, I'll put you through.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0024par0066	Please complete.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0023par0067	The decision and recommendation of the Council of Ministers on the National Security Council, which cannot prevent the coup, which cannot have the prediction, is once again the biggest error in the process of keeping the Parliament out of that process, and I would like to alert the General Assembly with these historical warnings about the state of emergency. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0024par0069	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I just want to say that, of course, we're being followed by our nation right now. There is an extraordinary state of state in the Constitution as a constitutional institution, which we should know, of course. You've made another addition to your group's speech, Ms. Coral, which is what they said. Sir, we're now going to the speech department on behalf of the individuals. On behalf of him, the first speech is from Ankara MP Mr. Levent Gök Bey. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0025par0078	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on my own behalf on the matter of the Supreme Court. I salute you all with love. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have explained our reasons for this decision and why the vote is not appropriate for the extraordinary state of mind on behalf of our group, and I will try to continue in my own light. My dear friends, all the speakers have told me that the night of July 15th is a night of the ages of Turkey's history. When the history of Turkey is written, there will be a phase ahead of July 15th, the night of July 15th will be very important, and the days after July 15th will occupy a very, very important place in Turkey's history. On the night of July 15th, when we arrived at the Republican People's Party headquarters when intelligence came that we had received various hearings, that some actions had been heard, that's when we, the valued MPs, saw observations beyond what was coming to us at that moment. The headquarters of the Republican People's Party is in a position to see the Presidential Palace directly across the street, and we have witnessed the bombing of the Presidential Palace, or the shooting of helicopters. Now, we're watching the developments behind the events, and when Mr. President didn't hear any news from his aide, learned the coup from his brother-in-law, the members of the National Security Council didn't know each other, and the Undersecretary of the MIT waited a moment to confirm, my dear friends, the AKP's valued executives, learned this coup from the Republican People's Party. At that moment, Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, who was in the hall, was searched personally by Mr. Naci Bostancı's side by Mr. Ayþe Nur Bahçkapılı who was in the hall, and said, "Friends, the Presidential Palace is being bombed, be careful, this is a very serious coup attempt." You trust neither the aides nor the MIT, but those Republican People's Party brothers. [[Applause from CHP and AK PARTY]] Everyone's here. We've seen the reality of it, my dear friends. As soon as we got off the plane, we informed our president, we ensured that he be taken to a secure location, after our president's statement, we came here and we all hugged together here. For what? In the name of national will. Yes, we have a problem with the AKP, we don't agree with the AKP, we want AKP to leave power, but, dear friends, as the Republican People's Party, we want to deal with the Justice and Development Party in front of the nation, we want to come to power with the vote we take from the nation. [[Applause from CHP and AK PARTY]] Now, after this painting, until July 15th, there was no meaning to any conversation spoken or expressed here. On that day, the Republican People's Party's clear stance, its clear stance against the coup, its position on a difficult ruling party, its position on a troubled democracy, its stand against a terrorist organization, its very clear stance, was performed by everyone here at the cost of its life. This House lived a historic night under the bombs, until morning. We will later share our memories in the bunkers where we sat until that morning; the AKP people, the People of CHP, the MP, all our brothers, the President of our Parliament, the Minister of Justice, the other ministers, when we looked at each other's faces, the night of July 15th was already a nation in politics. Do you know why we came here that day, my dear friends: this was not just the AKP's problem, it was Turkey's problem, it was the problem of the Republican People's Party, it was the problem of HDP, DP, all political institutions, it was the problem of democracy. We talked to our friends, and we said, "Aman, let's run the House and let's keep Parliament working in the usual way. If our citizens see the Parliament's work, if they see that we're in the usual situation, they'll get depressed, they'll get depressed. We've come here so that we can do the usual and the usual, and we've held a historic session. The next day, our AKP group presidents are here, and in our meeting with all of them, this past week, we have stated that the Parliament must and must certainly work, and there must be an ordinary situation, my dear friends. Because, on the night of July 15th, if this terrorist organization's coup attempt had come to fruition, the picture, martial law, extraordinary state, detentions, future unjust arrests, courts, would have been a very dark painting. We know this dark painting. Did this community survive the trauma of Adnan Menderes, who was hanged on May 27th? Did this community survive the trauma of the Hanged Sea Traveler and his friends on March 12th? Has this society survived the trauma of nearly 50 of our friends who were hanged on September 12th - from right to left? We know the impacts very well, we know what the impacts lead to. So, if there was a coup, I believe we've made a very important contribution from Turkey to prevent the extraordinary behavior or martial law practices that would have happened, to eliminate the threat of impact from Turkey, and to take Turkey into the usual process, and I think the Parliament's work has contributed to that. My dear friends, that's why we're against this extraordinary situation. I mean, the revisiting of all parties -- almost immediately -- in many political conflicts -- in an environment where political parties have passed through polarisation, after many years, agreed to normalise their extraordinary state over it, would be disruptive to an ordinary painting at the moment. That's why we're against it. As a political institution, we can solve our problems. The danger of a coup is that we can resolve his process, his consequences, and what will be done next by convincing each other under the roof of Parliament. Look, now, we're asking each other, in the laws that have come in, what matter are you against? We've caught a good environment, let's not spoil it, we need it. We want politics to work democratically, decisions to be made, and we've seen that AKP alone can't avoid this trouble, my dear friends. We want to contribute, we want to be there for you. I see that the danger is still going on, I see that it will continue. There are other great dangers. In the face of these dangers, when the ruling party is alone, there can be many mistakes. Come on, let's get our strength together. The way of this is not the state of emergency, it cannot be solved when the House is disabled in a state of emergency. Together we can solve problems, which is why the state of emergency is important. We believe that we will overcome this extraordinary situation with the usual methods within this table, and we are very determined about it. As the Republican People's Party, we believe that the extraordinary situation, which will be brought to protect democracy, protect human rights, protect basic rights and freedoms, will also pose negative dangers. If this practice is badly applied -- we invite the ruling party and the state mind to coolness and clarity -- and know that when the very bad practices come in front of us on the night of July 15th, if the coup had succeeded, what bad results Turkey would have had, my dear friends, could have had worse consequences than these bad practices. There's no guarantee, there's no guarantee of that. Mistakes can always be made. So many mistakes we've seen so far, so many irregularities we've seen so far. Sadly, this danger brings another danger to the AKP. On November 30, 2002, we removed the extraordinary state of state which had been raised without extension. The AKP, who wrote to the democracy manifesto, saying, "The AKP and its ruling party, who hung on the election billboards, are unfortunately facing a very ironic situation today, and we will be voting here today to implement the State of Emergency Law, which was issued during the September 12th coup. Friends, in the constitutional debates, we also said to clear the law of the period. There were those involved. Now, the Republican People's Party proposes to you that this is the wrong way, to go down this road, it's wrong to insist, but it seems you're about to vote for it. In practice, you have to be very careful; the slightest mistake you make in practice can lead Turkey to other places of vulnerability; such danger awaits Turkey, and such danger awaits its power. As opposition, we want to help you in such a critical process, we want to reach out to each other. Hold our hand. This hand you're holding will support you equally in clearing the danger, just as it informs you of the night of the coup. Republican People's Party favours the secular republic, Republican People's Party favours the democratic, social law state, Republican People's Party favours Turkey. (CHP clapping in rows) So if the state of emergency is to be confirmed, without harm...
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0026par0092	Mr. Sky, we're adding a minute, sir.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0025par0093	...to prevent the destruction of Turkey. In Turkey, this process is like a troll, my dear friends, coming in from below and dragging everyone, even you don't realize it. There's a fear surrounding the government right now. Well, that fear has to be overcome. I wonder who made the taques, hid himself, who's real and who's not. There will be reports, there will be other things, maybe one of your favorite friends will be taken into custody. We're going to a time when a lot of wrongs can be done. Be careful, think about it a thousand times and do it once. We, the Republican People's Party, do not accept you, our nation, as a contribution to Turkey, in the idea that we will overcome this extraordinary situation in the usual way. That's why he says it's our duty to make this way and normalize Turkey, and I salute all of you with love.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0027par0097	Thank you, Mr. Sky. The second talk on behalf of Bartın MP Yilmaz Bronzeç is owned by Mr. Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Bronze. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0028par0102	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge regarding the State of Emergency declaration of the State of the Council of Ministers. I salute the General Assembly. On the night of July 15th, the Fethullahist terrorist group, which had been secretly organized within the Turkish Armed Forces for years, dared to take over the country's leadership by attacking the state and the nation in treason. In Istanbul, they stopped at the Bosphorus Bridge, occupied the state's television and began to announce their bandits to the world, and attacked the nation by smuggling weapons, planes, helicopters, tanks, which should be used to defend the nation's taxes. Even in the Battle of Salvation, the enemy had not been able to fire a bullet at the Grand National Assembly, and since the Poletli had not been able to pass by, these traitors have vomited their hatred and hostility at the Turkish National Assembly, Police Special Opposition, Security, MSCE, over and over again. While the public is trying to figure out what happened, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan and our Prime Minister Mr. Buli Yıldırım have linked to the TVs and urged his nation to take over their country and stand against these traitors in the squares, expressing that it is a coup attempt, that the coupters will not succeed, that they will not be able to account for this unlawfulness. Opposition party leaders have expressed their opposition to the coup and have collected our nation's appreciation. When the terrorists saw the public landing in the squares, they drove the tanks relentlessly over the nation, showering our people with deadly bullets. This saint nation was not afraid of these traitors, but kept on fighting, lying under the tanks of traitors, climbing up against them, turning their trap upon them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Members of parliament, Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the first elected President of this country, who has passed a class to Turkey, where he has been leading for 14 years, and has signed unimaginably actions in every field. This great leader, who has become the voice of the oppressed of the world, has been repeatedly cut off over 14 years, but every attempt has been overcome by our President's strong position and the terror of our nation. The enemies of Turkey, who have failed in all their efforts, have tried to shoot people with the nation's guns this time. In the attack launched by this traitorous organization against Turkey, our citizens in foreign countries, our friendly relatives have come to the streets to support Turkey. Allied seemingly friendly countries, the United Nations, the European Union, NATO, international organisations, were expected to be attacked by law and the will of the nation. And when the nation's struggle prevails, we are with the elected government. They had to say. I'd like to point out two things here, dear lawmakers. It turns out that the attempted infiltration of this traitorous terrorist organization did not begin during the AK PARTI period. We can clearly see that this organisation has been going on in every period of power since more than thirty or forty years. The fact that these terrorists have been able to hide themselves in the army, to rise to the level of Lieutenant General, Major General, Orgeneral, clearly indicates that this structure has infiltrated the military since the 1980 coup. The traitor has been deciphered by the attempted 17-25 December coup attempt, where the organisation is an organised terrorist organization directed across the ocean, and our President -- he was our Prime Minister at that time -- and the EC PARTI has launched the first challenge. When we said that the attempted arrest of the Undersecretary of MIT, the stopping of MIT trucks, the attempted coup on December 17th-25th was always the work of this parallel gang, I wish we could show the example of unity and unity today. I wish we could all support the plans for the dissolution of this gang from HSYK and from high judgment as we are today. If it hadn't been for the last three or four years, the members of the parallel organization, who have infiltrated the judiciary and the police, who have seen this danger for the past three or four years, in the past three or four years, our country would have been occupied by gangs, and the national will would have been put on hold. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, will the State of Emergency decide to go outside the law? The answer is definitely no. The State of Emergency is an institution known by our Constitution for situations where the state needs to have a sudden reflex, which is legal, legal, universal, and exists in almost every democratic country in the world. The last time there was a terrorist attack, the State of Emergency was declared in France, and no one said what was France doing? In recent days, the National Assembly of France has extended the State of Emergency decision in France for another six months. On the contrary, the State of Emergency is a manifestation of the will of the Republic of Turkey to remain in law while fighting coupters and terrorism. A government without the will to remain within the law could have taken measures without declaring the State of Emergency. The goal here is to avoid making moves in contrast to those values in defending the rule of law, legislation, and democracy. Therefore, the State of Emergency is not a situation where no one else should be afraid or satisfied but the terrorists. The State of Emergency, which has been declared, aims to prevent the danger that could be created by the state and the nation together by terrorists within the state. There's a different situation in the past days than the E.R., which has been extended and extended for military coups, valued lawmakers. The AK PARTY has always been sensitive to basic rights and freedoms since its arrival. When he came to power, the first thing to do was not extend the E.R. practice in the southeast. The changes protecting basic rights and freedoms of the State of Emergency Act took place in 2004. The State of Emergency is not a martial law, precious MPs. There is no limiting basic rights and freedoms, on the contrary, a legal measure for the removal of the threat to basic rights and freedoms is limited to its subject, its cause and its duration, envisioned in Article 120 (B) of the Constitution. The martial law is a system in which soldiers operate. There are martial law courts in martial law, civil administration in the State of Emergency, natural courts in the field. The governors are coordinated. All operations of the administration are subject to judicial supervision. Therefore, criticism that fundamental rights and freedoms will be restricted is not true. The extraordinary state disables Parliament. Its criticisms are unfair. This is the authority to confirm and remove the State of Emergency, Turkey is the Grand National Assembly. The decrees on the State of Emergency shall be passed before you again, before the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and under that lofty roof. When will Turkey use the extraordinary form of governance that democratic countries have applied to eliminate terrorist threats if not to use its parliament against those who bombed it? If he's not going to use it against the cops who put their lives on the line in the fight against terrorism, when is he going to use it? If the Constitution won't use the State of Emergency clause on criminals trying to crush their people with tanks, when will we use it? If he's not going to use it against those who are desperate enough to kill the President, when are we going to use it? Mr. President, we owe it to the esteemed lawmakers to hold the national will, to repel the coupters, to repel the coupters, to all the heroes of democracy who have been killed and wounded. And that debt is to ask the terrorists who committed this betrayal against our country, who were hiding under a military suit, to pay their dues. What we do is we create the legal ground that will allow this account to be asked in public. This floor will be provided by this Veteran Assembly, targeted in the attacks. With these thoughts and feelings, I bow before our martyrs, asking for God's mercy on our martyrs, asking for our nation to get well, seeking immediate healing for our wounded, praying to God not to compare our country with such misfortunes.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0029par0114	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the negotiations are complete.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0030par0116	Let's take a ten-minute break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0031par0117	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0029par0118	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0031par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to present a matter to the General Assembly as information. Our president, Mr. State Gardener, was very eager to join the General Assembly work here at this time. However, as you know, there has been a conflict with the time that our fallen martyrs attended the ongoing funeral prayer and ceremony on July 15th. On this occasion, as the National Movement Party, I repeat, we will vote positively for the state of emergency, which the Council of Ministers has requested from our supreme Parliament for three months. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit02spe0032par0126	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit03spe0032par0001	Dear MPs, I am opening the Third Session of the 117th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The government is in place. Dear lawmakers, we've completed negotiations on the Prime Minister's thesis. I will now re-read the Prime Minister's thesis and submit it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the 1st joke (b) of Articles No. 2935 and Article 3 (b) of the State of Emergency Act No. 2035, 21/7/2016 across the country, it is 1 p.m. on Thursday (21/7/2016). It was dated 20/7/2016 for 90 days, and the image of the Council of Ministers' Decision 2016/9064 was sent in connection with the declaration of the state of emergency. I'll give you what you need. There's a motion for a clear vote to be held as an Isari, that I read the motion and submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the draft of the first joke (b) of Article No.12035 and Article 335 of the State of Emergency Act of the Constitution, we propose and propose that the General Assembly vote on the declaration of a state of emergency for 90 days starting Thursday (21/7/2016). Mehmet Naci Bostancı Ramazan Can Mehmet Metiner Mustafa Yel Ayşe Sula Köseoğlu Osman love Bak Özcan Ulupınar Abdulhamit Gül Hatice Dudu Özkal Sebahattin Karakelle Bkent Turan Yilmaz Tezcan Imran Sword Razza Kavakcı Kan Fatma Benli Smurfy Ünal Kemalettin Yilmakin Sami Dedeoğlu Mustafa Ilıcalı Orhan Kırcalı Emine Yavuz Köver Mehmet Erdoğan Ahmet Uzer Mehmet Akyürek Zahra Taşkesenlioğlu Reşat Petek Canan Candemir Çelik Yıldız Seferinoğlu Mehmet Demir Metin Akgün Jülide Sarıeroğlu Rafet Sezen Sabri Özturk Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... are unanimous. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... It's unanimous. We'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to request that members who can't get into the system ask the technical staff for help, and that the members who can't get into the system despite this help, deliver their ballots to the presidency within a three-minute window scheduled for a vote. Also, I'd like to ask the ministers to vote in the three-minute period envisioned for the vote when they vote in whichever minister is going to vote, the color of the game and the ballot bearing its signature with its name and name. I'm starting the voting process. [[The electronic device started voting.]] Dear lawmakers, the vote is under way, but there is a recommendation from the Council of Counsellors, and we will announce it at the end of the vote. So, I'd like to warn you that our deputies have a short window of time. A council proposal will be voted on. Thank you. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I declare the open vote: According to the 1st joke (b) of Articles No. 2935 and Article 3 (b) of the State of Emergency Act No. 2935, 21/07/2016 is on Thursday (21/07/2016). The Prime Minister's proposal for a state of emergency from 00 to 90 days from now is a clear vote on the decision of the Council of Ministers: ▪ Number of votes used: 461 [[x]] Sir, in this way, it has been approved and has been the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Good luck with that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Prime Minister has a request for a thank-you speech. Here you go, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit03spe0033par0061	Mr. President, the most valuable members of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- the extraordinary state-of-the-art decision that has just been adopted in our Parliament -- is in fact to take measures to eliminate the consequences and destruction of the armed coup attempt against the national will on the night of July 15th. When we look at the State of Emergency decisions of the past, the measures were to limit the citizens' lives and restrict the citizens' movement, but with the attempted coup attempt on July 15th, the nation, with its government, with all its political parties, with its Commander-in-Chief, its co-existed, locked up, and our nation took a comfortable breath. In this process, many people, many institutions, with a great capacity, with the love of the country, have taken the most clear stance on this initiative and Turkey has shown the world that it has written an epic democracy. In short, today's decision has declared itself a state of emergency, not a nation. (AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers) With this extraordinary announcement, the state's gangs, the terrorist gangs, which have been clustered within the state for many years, will be wiped out one by one, and these altars that attempt to harm our country's sovereignty, democracy will be eliminated to never rise again; this is the goal. In this process, we especially want to know that even in this business, where Turkey is most legitimately opposed and ultimately razed the coupgers, there are some confusing reports coming from the environments that we know, some games are being played on the economy of Turkey. Everyone should know that the Turkish economy is an open economy to the world. Despite this initiative on the night of July 15th, on Monday, life continued without interruption with the stock market market, with its bank, with its financial transactions, and all economic activities were conducted in a healthy manner. While all of this is in the middle, we find the effort to play with Turkey's risk premium lacking in goodwill. These are the predestined decrees. No matter what they did, the Turk saved a man from disrupting democracy in his country on July 15th, and showed the world that the booming economy of Turkey will continue to grow strong with the same determination from now on. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] In the process, all of our political parties, especially the presidents, have shown a truly admirable stance, never giving up democracy, even during the bombing under the roof of this Veteran Assembly. What we expect from the political party groups is that this union that we've started is to quickly continue to make arrangements to get out of this mess. Especially investments, production, growth of the economy, measures for reforms, the way we started it, outside of the State of Emergency, will continue from next week, and we will all, in fact, ensure that our country, all of us, our people, will be free of the influence of this event. Our political parties will celebrate the 15th and 16th of July as a day of democracy, and from now on we will celebrate as a day of remembrance of our democracy martyrs. Once again, the tank's power was inadequate to the power of the people, it was defeated. (AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers' rankings) The juntaciers have burned and remained on the road, and the will of the people has won. Once again, I would like to thank our great Council, our beloved nation, for its noble position. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-07-21sit03spe0034par0071	[[AC PARTY and the Council of Ministers applaud standing by]] Thank you, Reverend Prime Minister. Dear lawmakers, the Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I will have you read it and vote for it. At a meeting Thursday (21/07/2016) of the advisory council, it has been deemed appropriate for the General Assembly to submit to the approval of the General Assembly's decision not to discuss anything other than the Prime Minister's thesis in the General Assembly and to not meet on Friday (22/07/2016). Justice and Development Party Group Republican People's Party Group Peoples' Democratic Party Group National Movement Party Group Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I submit the proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are unanimous. In accordance with the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (July 26, 2016) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00, thank you.
