tbmm-2016-12-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 40th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll be negotiating in the ninth round today. The ninth round includes the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the Competitive Service, the Finance Ministry, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Office of Public Relations, the President of the Privatisation Administration, Public Accounting, Accounting and Control Standards Institution budgetary and final accounts. 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Account for 2015 1) Competitiveness Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Central Management Account for 2015 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Chairman of the IRS 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2015 1) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2015 Central Management Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, as it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. Now, in the ninth round, I'm reading a list of speakers who want to speak: On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Bursa MP Mr. Bennur Karaburun, Düzce MP Mr. Ayşe Kşar, Ankara MP Mr. Lütfiye Selva Çam, Samsun MP Hasan Basri Kurt, Eskişehir MP Mr. Emine Nur Günay, İstanbul MP Mr. Hasan Sertır, İzmir MP Mr. Necip Tetahya MP Mr. Ahmet Tan, Tekirdağ MP Mr. Mustafa Ergün Taşcı, Kırlareli MP Mr. Selahattin Minsolmaz and Muş MP Mehmet Emin Simek will speak. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, Siirt MP Mr. Besime Konca, Mardin MP Erol Dora, Ankara MP Alican Önlü, Mud MP Mr. Burcu Çelik Özkan, İstanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Aydın MP Mr Deniz Depboylu, Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, MP Mustafa Kalaycı, İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu will speak. On behalf of the People's Party Group of Cumhuriyet MP Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet, Tekirdağ MP Mr. Candan Yüçüker, Antalya MP Mr. Çetin Osman Budak, Denizli MP Mr. Kazım Arslan, Uçak MP Özkan Yım, Zonguldak MP Mr. Ünal Demirtaş and İstanbul MP Bihlun Tamaylıgil will speak. On behalf of him, Rize MP Hasan Karal and İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem will speak. Congressmans, I now read the 2nd article, titled "Building and financing" by the Central Management Budget Act of 2017: MADDE 2 - (1) Influences: As shown in the tablet marked "B," it is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 586,696,152,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations' incomes are 9.777,075,350 Turkish liras, totaling 80,063,288,250 Turkish liras, including 70,286,212,900 Turkish Lira Treasury benefits, and a total of 80,063,288,250 Turkish liras. C) (III) The income of regulatory and auditory institutions on the table has been estimated to be 4,186,853,000 Turkish liras, a total of 4,216,853,000 Turkish liras, including 30,000,000 Turkish liras. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table No. 5018 (II), as shown in these laws (F), has been estimated as 49,222,000 Turkish liras. Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger, and I'd like to call a meeting of the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 40th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Bennur Karaburun will speak first. Here you go, Mr. Karaburun. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The speakers of the Justice and Development Party have been speaking for five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0002par0008	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the group on behalf of the 2017 budget bill, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. First of all, I would like to ask God's mercy on our police and civilian citizens who have recently been killed in a treacherous terrorist attack on our wounded brothers and sisters. In fact, I was going to talk today about the work our Ministry of General Assembly has done for the disabled, the elderly, the martyrs and the veterans, but because of the process we're in, and some of the talks we've had at the General Assembly, I just want to say a few words about our martyrs and veterans. There have been improvements in the rights provided by legislation, which was completed in 2014 as part of the service of fellow martyrs and veterans, which we consider to be a great honor. The heirs of our martyrs are being paid a substantial amount of cash under various titles. They receive a pension or a monthly payable bonus from Social Security, which they deserve by the Social Security Agency over 30 years. Schoolchildren receive student loans, private schools get quotas. There's a scholarship at the Mortgage Institute. They're making use of the dorms first. They don't get their share of health care. Needed families are provided with interest-free mortgages, providing them with suitable housing. Free travel has been launched throughout Turkey, including veterans, relatives of the martyrs and their disability. The employment rights of the relatives of the martyrs have been increased to two. Civil citizens who have lost their lives in terrorist incidents have also been given a job. Beyond all that, there are a few other things I'd like to point out. Turkey is a great state, along with all ethnic citizens. No terrorist organization, no foreign altar will be able to divide this country. The greatest proof of that is the resistance of our glorious nation on the night of July 15th. I'm going to say it again here today. Our fight against terrorism will continue until the last terrorist, the last traitor, is buried in the pit of hell. (APPLAUSE) As it has been said in my verse: Say, infidels, you will be defeated and driven to hell. I ask you in front of our great nation: "We have put our backs to terrorist organizations. Those who claim to be the deputy of the nation have condemned the attacks of this terrorist organization, even for one day? Did they sign a joint statement issued by parties in parliament? Have they ever attended the funerals of the martyrs of this land? Did they shed a tear? If so, they'll be the propaganda of the terrorist organization and supposedly the apostle of democracy. They accuse our President of being dictators, fascist and oppressive. Don't worry, these people are seeing everything, and they're asking the government for what they're doing. One of the so-called deputies of this particular party recently walks down the aisle in his own words and tells me: "You put us in prison, we practice, we're pacing." Look at this mess. Look at this mess. You're going to refer to the will of this nation, to the uninterrupted integrity of this country, and as for the consequences, you're going to play victimic literature. You're going to commit murder, and you're going to bring his bill to legitimate power, which has proven itself to be terror, as has been in many matters. There's no such thing. You're living in a fantasy world. Once again, to those who are connected to these terrorist organizations, to those who support them, to their political extensions and to their members, we will bring down the world upon you and you will pay for it. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) PKK, NYD, TAK, DEAŞ, DHKP-C, whatever the name is, these terrorist organizations will be destroyed. In our country, I would like to thank Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Prime Minister Buli Yıldırım, our ministers and all of our security forces on behalf of my own and my nation. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly in the hope of a brighter tomorrow and a fairer order.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0003par0016	Thank you, Mr. Karaburun. Mr. President... Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0004par0019	We've had an open taunt with our group.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0003par0020	What is it? What did he say?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0004par0021	An insult, to say the least...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0003par0022	Can you give me some debriefing information, and I'll decide by insulting what he said?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0004par0023	The lawmakers who lay down their backs...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0005par0024	▪ Insubstantial, so-called surrogates...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0004par0025	...the so-called deputies who couldn't resist, you're throwing us into a prison, they said. Can you look at the lack of power, the lack of power? Shall I count more?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0006par0026	Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0004par0029	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Group Vice President Idris Baluken, used to repeat things here over and over and over again, and I would look at them, and I would say, "Why is he saying it over and over again?" Every time he came, look, I'm telling you again. Look, I'm telling you again. Over and over, if we're doing politics here, everyone has the freedom to use their own language. But you don't, it's not called democracy, it's just that we need to use a language in the frame that we drew. But we have our own language. For years, we have expressed that we condemn all violence and desire peace and democracy in this country. But if you want to know, we haven't been in power in 14 years, we haven't had intelligence organizations in 14 years, we haven't had the police force in 14 years, we haven't had the military in 14 years. Well, then, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, I mean... if you really want him to set up the HDP intelligence organization, you know, to prevent those attacks, like, 20 explosions in the last year, the HDP could have actually done it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0007par0031	We don't want that, Mayor, just sign the contract.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0004par0032	But now that we've been in power all these years, you're going to try to transfer everything to a party that's not really in power, who's opposed and opposed in a proper political language, and you're going to criminalize it and arrest all HDP MPs on TV as we speak. We'll never accept that. My respects.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0008par0034	Thank you. 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Account for 2015 1) Competitiveness Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Central Management Account for 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Chairman of the IRS 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2015 1) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2015 Central Management Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Düzce MP Ayşe Kezir will speak second. Here you go, Mr. Kestir.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0009par0069	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of 2017 of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. First of all, I curse the treacherous attack in Istanbul on December 10th, which took brave sons from their families, from their loved ones. We have buried our brother-in-law of Düzce, the son-in-law of my city, the son-in-law of our neighbor, the Head of Special Forces, Vefa Karakodur. I remember all our martyrs with mercy and gratitude in the person of our Warden of Loyalty. I'm sorry for the loss of our beloved nation. They will not be able to frighten the nation with death, starting with the national anthem, "Don't be afraid. " Whether it's 40 or 240 each, the sons of this great Turkish nation will not end up martyrs, won't give up, won't give up. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Members of parliament, when the Ministry of Family and Social Policy was established in 2011, institutions within different ministries gathered under one roof, with the understanding of creating holistic policies in social aid and social services. The family ministry ranks sixth with 4 per cent in the budget of 2017 to meet the Constitution's social state principle in modern forms. Congressmans, in accordance with the spirit of time, our family structure also shows change, transformation. Migration and urbanization are the main factors that enable this change. Our basic approach in family policy is to make policies that are based on new facts by holding fast to the ancient truth. We can't think separately about problems with social policy fields. Family problems and policies are not outside of issues related to women, disabled, elderly, poverty, addiction, education, health care and so forth, which is why we consider their holistic approach to be an important paradigm change. Advocacy for women's rights and advocacy for family integrity are not rivals, alternatives, opponents; we don't have to choose one over the other. We can also strengthen the family structure as we strengthen each member of the family. It is one of our main goals to build a family in healthy conditions, to support the continuation of its healthy structure, to increase the capacity to produce solutions, to create policies that support the child's high benefits. In the process of divorce, it is the basis of our family policy to provide social support and to ensure that the process is well spent, the continuation of healthy parental relations with the child after the divorce. In this framework, about 500,000 families have been given training under the Prenuptial Education Programme, while 539,000 have been provided as part of the Family Education Programme. Family and divorce counselling is provided at three stages before, during and after the divorce. In this regard, 8,000 couples who have requested this service have been given counseling. In order to protect and strengthen the dynamic population structure of our country, the maternity aid programme has been implemented for our orphaned and orphaned children. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been introduced to support the participation of our Roma citizens in social life and the Strategy Document covering 2016-2021. On this occasion, I extend my regards to my fellow citizens of Düzceli Roman. The Family Ministry also provides psychosocial support by reaching families and victims of a terrorist attack affected by terrorist incidents. Mr. President, as a country that has adopted the International Convention on Child Rights, the Children's Rights Strategy Document, which covers 2013-2017 to ensure effective implementation and co-ordination of child rights is still being implemented. Because of poverty, we cannot allow our only child to be separated from his family. For this reason, under Socio-Economic Support, our children are allowed to stay with their families. In the last 12 years, 11.181 of our children have been returned to their family in terms of the organization. The first stage of Project Ambassadors of the Heart, under the care of the dear wives of our President, includes foster families, and in this sense, our number of foster homes has been increased by about 10 times over the past years. Our primary goal in child services is to take home-type care rather than institutional. In this sense, our institutions have been transformed by 92 percent. We've got more to tell you than that, because we've done a lot of service in 14 years, but since I don't have enough time, I salute you all, and wish you well in our budget. I thank the Minister, the members of the Commission, your grand delegation, my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0010par0085	Thank you, Mr. Kestir. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Ankara MP Lütfiye Selva Çam will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0011par0089	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group to discuss the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. In fact, I planned to talk here today about the budget of our family ministry's important and valuable activities, but on Saturday night, we were all heartbroken by that vile, treacherous bombing. After 53 of our Special Ops officers who were killed in Ankara's low coup attempt on July 15, we also sent our riot police to eternity in the spring of most of their lives. I condemn the attacks on our brave officers in these days, where tongues are held, and the eyes are filled with tears, and the words run out, and I give thanks to all those officers who lay their lives for this country. Dear members of the High Assembly, with terror, violence, and carnage, no political action will ever come to fruition. The fight against terrorism must first begin under this roof, and it must be sincere and moral in this struggle; it must not be double - character; there must be no more behind closed doors, no more against the screen. Those who claim to have done so-called women's politics do the greatest cruelty to the women of this land. It should not be a tool for mountain politics, leaving aside many of the traits of our women from creation, such as compassion, dignity, courage, morality, patience. During this so - called Day of Human Rights, neither children nor women shed tears. Under chemical gases, there were massacres on the streets of Aleppo, and children were shot at. With Turkey coming in, a ceasefire has been reached. Unfortunately, the world has watched all these massacres. There is no other capital outside Ankara that can claim the oppressed in the world, especially our heart geography. We have in our hearts the women of Aleep, Musul, Telapher, Damascus, Baghdad, Crimean, Ahıska, Palestine, Kerkok, Arakan, and many other towns, and their children, and their oppressed ones. It's their problem, our problem. We are not of those who see not, nor hear, nor shall we ever be of those who hear. Whatever its name is, it will be able to maintain both the women and the families of our lands and our hearts as long as we are alive in this Veteran Assembly, the decisive struggle against YPG, PYD, TAK, and the terror organizations. Dear lawmakers have put women, families and children at the center of life for 14 years since the establishment of the EC PARTY. In this context, he established the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in 2011 to produce services as a separate ministry. As stated in the Constitution, our ministry is seriously fulfilling its obligation to become a social law state. As a matter of fact, you all know where the AK PARTY governments are in the history of social policy. So we've seen that those who criticize our social policies and our understanding of the social state, especially their strategy, are building on social policy. Our ministry is with our women, next to our children, exposed to any risk of neglect or abuse. I believe that from now on, the family will continue to produce good services for the women's status, the disabled, the elderly, the martyred relatives, the veterans and those in need of protection. We are with the women's body of our party and the Ministry staff and the Minister working 24/7 with 4.5 million female members. With these feelings, I once again remember all our martyrs with mercy and gratitude, patience for their grieving families, urgent healings for our veterans. They must know that the relatives of our martyrs are never alone. They are entrusted to this loyal nation and to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in the name of our nation. On this occasion, I express my thanks to all employees, especially our Minister, and I wish the budget to be good for our ministry and our nation, and I salute our High Council and our President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0012par0098	Thank you, Mr. Pine. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Samsun MP Hasan Basri Kurt will speak fourth. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0013par0102	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my speech, I am at the mercy of our officers and citizens who were killed in a treacherous ambush in Beşiktaş last Saturday. I pray to God that I have patience for the grieving families they have left behind. And to our brothers and sisters who are badly wounded, I wish them a speedy recovery from here. Two days ago, we buried Mustafa Ozturk, one of our brave brothers in Samsun Wednesday County. The terrorist organization, the PKK and its supporters, will not scare or intimidate this nation. We all owe it to ourselves to pay for this treacherous attack. In the fight against terrorism, our country continues to work decisively with all its security units. As a NATO member country, Turkey is fighting effectively with many terrorist organisations, including the PKK, DAEŞ and ▪, DHKP-C, PYD. In this way, there is no other NATO member who is fighting domestic and outside terrorist organizations at the same time. After the coup attempt on July 15, our fight to clean up the cells that have been nested in different units of the state has also continued decisively. Mr. President, we're living in Aleppo, perhaps one of the most brutal times in human history. The regime and its supporters are most responsible. In the east of Aleppo, wounded people are not even allowed to go out. Whatever is inhuman is happening today in Aleppo, but we will continue our efforts. If everyone shuts up, we as Turkey will not shut up. On the one hand, we will continue our diplomatic efforts in the international community for the solution. The massacre in Aleppo is the common pain of everyone under the roof of this House. The regime is clearly committing a human crime and war crimes in Aleppo. In fact, in Aleppo and in other regions, this has made it clear what the regime's real intentions are. To put a stop to this human drama, the entire international community must act as well. Our president and our government carried out a heavy diplomatic traffic with the Russian Federation in particular, as you know, at the point of a ceasefire in Aleppo and humanitarian aid. Mr. President has made several phone calls about this matter. Last week, our Prime Minister, who visited Russia, performed a very serious diplomacy here, particularly on the delivery of humanitarian aid on Aleppo and the opening of the corridor. What we believe was the result of last night, unfortunately, was the end of the ceasefire by the regime forces and Shia forces in the area earlier today. Our call again today is that the conflicts, the immediate end of the attacks, the delivery of humanitarian aid, and the steps necessary for a broader political transition process. In this framework, we, Turkey, continue to do our part at the humanitarian aid point. Although the international community, regional actors, may not take steps in this matter, Turkey will continue to carry out its humanitarian, conscientious responsibility. Those who persecute Aleppo are also responsible for this persecution and for those who remain silent. We, today and tomorrow, with all the world, will work hard to announce Aleppo's cry to the world, and we will continue our attempts to deliver humanitarian aid in this regard. As I finish my words, I would like to address Aleppo here with a poem by Erdem Ba'rit. ▪Ahh! We were saying/ It was bleeding from inside us/ it was being ripped out with a knife as if our heart/ our body/ Ahh! We were saying, we couldn't do anything else. But thou art a poet, and thou hast to turn a page again, from the judgment that cometh, / Let it ring in the ears/ let it burn in the hearts/ Walk into the veins / wave wave/ come to an age of age/...)
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0014par0111	Thank you. Eskişehir MP Emine Nur Günay will speak fifth on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günay.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0015par0115	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on behalf of Customs and Trade Ministry under the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill. I salute you and the Supreme Court. Before I begin my words, I ask God's mercy to all our martyrs, and my condolences to your relatives and to all our nations. Yes, we are a group who know what terrorism is, who clearly describe the policy of terrorism, and who, as elected representatives of the nation, clearly express and continue to fight every terrorist organization from this stand. Let's take a look at what we're going through, and let's evaluate some data in that context. July 15th, treasonous coup attempt. Target: The entire Turkish nation. The method is to create a military, political, economic, psychological and sociological breakdown. The primary economic impact was seen in July 18th-22nd week. The stock index lost 13.4 per cent, while the indicator bond interest rate rose to 9.4 per cent, with 8.5 per cent. The $2.89 dollar/TL dried up, closed at 3.07 (July 22nd). In the same week, foreign portfolio investments amounted to $523 million. Between July 18th and July 22nd, losses in many markets were compensated in the following weeks. In the recovery process, the Turkish people's solidarity with the treacherous coup attempt and acting in unison have ruined all the games. The internal and external focus that did not get what they wanted did the second wave attacks on the economy through credit rating agencies. After the failed coup attempt, the S&P quickly lowered Turkey's credit rating by lowering its credit rating by one step -- even though there was no official contract between the Treasury Undersecretary and the S&P. In a statement on September 21st, after stating that the shock caused by the failed coup attempt on July 15th in the Turkish economy was largely disbanded, what happened that Turkey lowered it to the lowest level of investment without waiting for the period it announced on September 23rd? Yes, I'd like to make it clear today that there are two issues in our economy that are sensitive and constantly on the agenda, and that are being taken into consideration in this area. The first one's open, the second one's foreign. However, I am stressing that we should observe these values again as the ratio within the GDP. The Cari deficit's GDP rate was 9 per cent in 2011 and 4.5 per cent in 2015, below the international acceptable threshold of 5 per cent. And while we're looking at the external debt, I think we should consider the time structure. There's a saying in the economy: A graph is worth a thousand words. Yeah, well, maybe these graphs will stick in our heads a little bit more. As it is clear here, there is a trend towards long-term foreign debt as the trend continues at a certain rate in the sum of short-term foreign debt. But if we look at them both in terms of the term and in terms of the public and private sector, the total debt of the public sector dropped from 19 percent in 2004 to 17 per cent in the first two quarters of 2016, and the short-term debt of the private sector increased from 7 per cent to 13 per cent in 2016, and the long-term private sector foreign debt rose from 9.5 per cent here, as you can see from 9.5 per cent. So, we see very clearly here that in the proportions of GDP, the short-term foreign debt of the private sector is very clearly controlled and all necessary measures are being taken. Of course, we don't settle for that, we bring up other measures and policies. 33% of the private sector is in debt over foreign currency, 23 per cent of exporters are in debt over foreign currency; 13 per cent are in non-exporting companies. So, what are we doing in the meantime? The Entity Fund, which was in many countries against such global fluctuations, was legalized here on August 19, 2016. We're moving on to BES to increase internal savings. In short, what we need to do is continue our micro-focused structural reforms on solid macroeconomic foundations, and move on with strong democracy. I wish the Ministry of Customs and Commerce's 2017 budget to be good.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0016par0126	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Hasan Sert will speak sixth. Here you go, Mr. Hard.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0017par0130	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the Veterans' House, honoring all our martyrs. I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group to address the Fiscal Year's Ministry of Customs and Trade budget in 2017. The Ministry of Customs and Trade has brought innovations to its entrepreneur, its tradesman, its merchant, its industrialist, its cooperative, its exporter, its importer, its importer, its importer, its importer, its entrepreneur, its trader. Our ministry aims to strengthen our businessmen to make Turkey an active country in the international arena. It also develops new and comprehensive studies that are needed with the innovative thinking structure to make each area of trade easier and safer and continues to develop new projects for minimum bureaucracy by improving the functioning and possible problems of commercial systems. As he performs all these studies, he conducts Turkey's customs and trade transactions, thinking that the most accurate and efficient practices in the world should be in our country. There are 3 million 668 thousand commercial businesses in our country. In the first 10 months of 2016, our country had $280 billion in foreign trade at customs gates, and 78 million consumers took advantage of it. Besides, millions of people and vehicles have entered and exited the customs gates. The Ministry of Customs and Trade, which operates at such a crucial point, has also done important work as part of our government's economic goals and has also done work to enable our business world to take an active role in the world's trade and boost their competitiveness in global markets. Foreign trade, which plays an important role in the growth and development of countries, is also an important way for our country to grow. The fact that our firms exist in the world arena and conduct commercial activities in global markets also contributes to our country's economic growth and development. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, considering the foreign trade figures of our country, in 2015, 69,000 of our companies were exported and 77,000 of our companies imported. In return, the foreign trade volume of 351 billion dollars. In 2002, the number of products we exported over $1 billion was nine, while in recent years, that number rose to 29. The number of countries we exported over $1 billion in 2002 was 8 in 2015, while the number was 30 in 2015. In 2002, we had five cities exporting over $1 billion, and in 2015 it increased to 15. In addition to all these increased foreign trade figures, our customs gates continue to serve as modernised, including Habur, Cilvegörü, Gürbuk, Hamzabeyli, Ipsala, Nusaybin, Dilucu, Crazy and Esendere Customs gates, one of Europe's largest customs gates, including the Kapkule Customs Gate. Thus, our Ministry continues its services, its activities within the fiscal year of 2017 with the budget of $1 billion,131 million,320,000 Turkish liras. And in this part of my speech, I'd like to talk about some things that I've seen in Congress that I see as negative. I'd like to repeat the attitude and language of some of our fellow lawmakers on the General Assembly that I don't think is correct. The killer soldier, the killer police, the state is slaughtering him. The statement, such as the coup d'état, we'll ask him for money. This budget is the war budget. All lawmakers who don't support terrorism and don't commit separatism are valuable and important to us. In addition, I believe the extraordinary state must continue in Turkey until terror breaks its back. I think those who say Kurdistan are separatists and persecuted our Kurdish brothers. ▪ We see together how those who call freedom threaten those who want freedom and how they slaughter innocent children of their homeland. I condemn those who distribute the declarations and support them, signed by the Democratic People's Initiative, which is distributed in the southeastern provinces. I wish you the best of the 2017 budget, with respect.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0018par0143	Thank you, Mr. Hard. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the seventh member of the İzmir MP, Mr. Necip Tetovo, will speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Shield.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0019par0147	Reverend President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group for the 2017 budget of the Competition Foundation for our Ministry of Customs and Trade. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers, when we took the stand, we were trying to stay as far off the agenda as possible, and we were reporting our views on the matter, but we're in great pain, and I'm out of the picture with a few sentences. In the past few days, I condemn and condemn the traitorous terrorist attack that was targeted by our security forces in Istanbul a few days ago. I call upon the villains and the murderers: all your necks shall fall down! [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Dear members, despite all these events, our country is moving rapidly towards its 2023 target. Our competitors on this road are strong, but we're getting our strength out of the nation. As our nation's trust continues, no obstacle will stand in the way of the Republic of Turkey. (ARK PARTY APPLAUSE) We didn't allow the treachery of the nation, no matter what its name was, PKK, DEAŞ, or whatever it was, to be mean to the people's will, and then we won't allow it, so let the seven worlds know. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Honourable lawmakers, the 167th Article of our Constitution has given the state the task of taking the necessary measures for the healthy, safe functioning of markets, monopoly and cartelization. In this direction, the Law on the Protection of Competition 4054 was adopted in 1994 in our great Parliament. Depending on this, the Association of Competitiveness took action at the end of 1997. The Competition Agency has been operating for nearly 20 years to ensure, protect, and improve competition in all the goods and services markets in our country. This encourages companies to continue their assets, to become more efficient, more efficient than their competitors, to reduce their costs and to do RD. Thus, this time period causes companies to offer higher quality products and services to consumers at lower prices. On the other hand, the benefits of competitive policy are not limited. Economicly competitiveness provides social justice and economic efficiency. Low prices in countries where competition policy is functioning in a healthy manner bring down inflation. Depending on this, the growing demand for consumers encourages companies to increase production capacity or to invest in it, using more advanced technology. In addition to labour-force efficiency, it brings increased employment, leading to international competitiveness with economic growth. Turkey's economy has seen positive results in the past ten years. From the day it was founded to today, the Competition Agency has shown effective implementation by decisions made in cases where competition conditions have been corrupted. There's more to my words, that's all there is to it in five minutes. I'm saying that this institution's budget has increased by 10.2 per cent over the last year, it's reached 78 billion percent, with the old money, of course, I haven't been doing it anymore. I believe this institution is useful to the successful, Turkish economy, Turkish trade, our friends at the institution, our Ministry, everyone, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0020par0159	Thank you, Mr. Shield. And the solidarity of the Izmir MPs is not overlooked, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0021par0161	Izmir solidarity, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0020par0162	Good, very good.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0022par0163	Mr. President, we applauded.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0020par0164	Well, Mr. Shield, the opposition has applauded, I think you'll appreciate it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0023par0165	His name is unsettled.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0020par0166	Yeah. Well, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, 8th member of the Kütahya MP Ahmet Tan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0024par0170	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the Finance Ministry budget in 2017. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. The budget is the understanding of revenues-goers, which are generally collected from the nation and again served as services to the nation. For fifteen years, the basic logic of the AK PARTY governments in the budget has been established by this understanding and has been registered by our nation at every turn. The importance of money and finance policies has once again increased in our present and living geography as well as in economic and political developments. The travel events, December 17th-25th and July 15th, continue their coup attempt, while international forces are involved with coupters and terrorists, our nation, which is a guarantee of the back of our state's state, is also in possession of its elected President, Parliament, and its government, as well as its oppressor. Now it shows that you took care of his money by cashing in his currency. How grateful we can be for having such a nation! We also know the reasons why our heart geography was tried to drown in blood and tears. Aleppo is right next to us, and before the eyes of the whole world, there's a disgrace to the slaughter and destruction. In Aleppo, innocent people die in the world. This geography, which has been exposed to the exploitation of capitalist understanding for years, has been created a human drama by twisting its hands and arms, to prevent the solidarity, solidarity of all oppressed nations, to be alone, to be exploited, and to continue my rights. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, it is a pity that we, like CHP MP Mr. Engin Ozkovic, have recently entered that illegal palace to bring democracy to Turkey, just as the United States did in the Middle East, if they enter Turkey to divide it into four-to-five, and we, like Syrian citizens, begin to search for our homes in the dark waters of the Mediterranean. On these statements, I ask you now: Did Mustafa Kemal Ataturk escape in our First World War and Liberation War, where the Imperialists all came to us together, so that you would run away, and Mustafa Kemal Ataturk looked for a new country? Friend, enemy, let everyone know that we don't dare to leave our country to anyone else because we know and believe that the blood on which the flags are raised is the land that dies for it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We are the descendants of the era, who have built an empire with a crude understanding of justice. I'd like to remind you that it's time to renew the mentality that we've seen from time to time, and that it's even passing. Together with this beloved nation, we must walk together as ruling and opposition to re-establishing a strong Turkey. Dear lawmakers, our budget for 2017 is based on the motto "growth-friendly" that predates growth, given the economic, political structure of our country. In this sense, our budget is a budget for our nation, which provides justice in the revenue distribution, including regional and sectoral balances. There is another study in our government's finances that I believe will be more systematic, more serious, and more professional to create a working area, which will increase the reputation of the Ministry of Finance, which operates in a very intense and risky environment, and is also working as a tax officer, most of the government's revenues will be examined, recording and auditing financial advisors and VAT problems, which I believe will become much healthier. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we wish our budget of 2017 to be good for our country and our nation, and I pray for the mercy of God to all of our martyrs who have died for the cause of our country and for our wounded.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0025par0183	Thank you, Mr. Tan. Mr. Altay, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0026par0187	Mr. President, Mr. Hatibine's claim that our Sakarya MP said yesterday was reflected here as an assessment beyond what our congressman intended. What our congressman means is that over this region, the imperial forces have been carrying on over the course of history, some of their calculations, some of their scenarios, some of their sharing understanding and approaches to the government, especially the government's Middle Eastern policy, is a sincere warning based on the shortcomings it sees in the region's policy. No one intends to leave this land. Together, we are the descendants of a nation that cannot end the reign of the Turkish nation until there is one. I'd like to present it to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0025par0190	Thank you, Mr. Altay. 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Account for 2015 1) Competitiveness Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Central Management Account for 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Chairman of the IRS 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2015 1) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2015 Central Management Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the ninth member of Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Yel will speak. Here you go, Mr. Yel.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0027par0225	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the President of the Fiscal Administration of 2017. On behalf of my group and myself, I salute your grand delegation. First of all, on Saturday (December 10th), I pray for the mercy of God to our policemen and to our citizens who died in the terrorist attack of the bloody terrorist organization in Istanbul, and to our wounded. My condolences to the families of our martyrs and to our police department, to our Beşiktaş Club and to our nation, who lost two members in the attacks. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are more important in the globalized economy to make valuable production, increase employment, increase competitiveness. For this, two basic policies are money and finance policies. Taxes also have an important share in finance policy. Taxes, on one hand, are used as a means of guiding the economy, and on the other hand, are the most important source of state spending. The revenue management plays an important role in collecting taxes, the most important source of public services financing. In this context, it has to constantly improve its activities and organisation in a way that understands the developing economy and adapts to technological developments. As a matter of fact, in 2005, by law number 5345, it was established to implement income policy in justice and neutrality, to collect taxes and other revenues at minimum cost, to provide tax voluntary compliance, to provide high-quality service to the taxpayers, to take the necessary measures to make their obligations easy, accountability, accountability, accountability, efficiency, efficiency, efficiency, activity and other revenues, according to the basic principles of the Finance Ministry. The presidency, which is responsible for tax practices, also has a rural organization directly based in the centre. In 2005, the IRS signed important tasks under an effective, efficient, specialized, fair, transparent, accountable management understanding of its face, which had been renewed. In particular, many practices have been implemented in the field of increasing voluntary harmony, the rights of the taxpayers and the rights of the taxpayers have been maintained, the cost of adapting has been reduced and the activity has been organised in combating the informal economy. It has been arranged for our taxpayers to perform their transactions in electronic environments, without going to tax offices, such as giving them a statement that they have lost a great deal of time. It is now available to pay tax debts, bank and internet, and the taxpayers can now submit their statements online. The tax identity number can be used as questioning, e-taxing, delaying and calculating interest, motor vehicle tax questioning, computation and credit card payment, and many more transactions as on-line. In addition, it is possible to keep books that are legally required to be kept electronically, and to arrange bills electronically. In this scope, the number of users in the e-fatura and e-defter application in 2016 is a very good example of transactions in the area of pay-per-view services, when the number of e-faturas is held to 52,000, and the number of e-faturas to 330 million. With the E-beet app, the cost of air, sea and air travel tickets and the cost of saving the taxpayers is provided for the electronic creation, delivery, protection, and notification of tickets for cinema, concerts, theatres, sports events and so on. He is an entrepreneur who was developed to inform the taxpayers about their tax obligations, considering the need for voluntary integration in the E-time. Gov. This area is provided with the necessary information on the troy's web portal. The Tax Communication Centre (VIMER) where our taxpayers can easily deliver their tax problems and receive advice has also started receiving notifications on the telephone and online media. The new action plan consists of five components and 62 actions. 15 organisations and 51 companies are responsible for implementing the plan. The implementation of the action plan aims to reduce the size of the informal economy and off-the-book employment to lower levels by the end of 2018. The Chairman of the IRS, which I mentioned about part of his work, has successfully applied the provisions of the Law of Reconstruction of some Acquisitions 6736 this year, and has contributed greatly to the positive results. With this feeling and thinking, I thank everyone who has worked on this bill, and I wish that our President of the IRS, 2017, the budget of the fiscal year, would be a blessing for our country and our nation.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0028par0237	Thank you, Mr. Yel. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, 10th MP Ergün Taşcı will speak. Here you go, Mr. Stoneman.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0029par0241	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the public tender budget. I salute the High Council. Before I begin, I pray to God for the mercy of our 44 children who died in the treacherous terrorist attack in Beşiktas, Istanbul, and to our veterans for immediate healing. Again, I'd like to voice atrocity, a human drama, a violence at our side, at our side. Aleppo, the blood is crying. In the last 15 days alone, nearly 1,000 innocents, women, children, were slaughtered without saying "old." The world is silent, the world is indifferent. The world is deaf to the screams of these oppressed, these innocents. Mankind was not only silent in this drama; in Rwanda, 800,000 people died in 1994; in the heart of Europe, in Bosnia, 100,000 people were silent in the massacre, in genocide; in Myanmar, Palestine, and in many parts of the world, they were blind to the slaughter of the oppressed, the innocent, and the children. I'd like to underline it in the presence of the High Council. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to stress a few issues regarding the Public Contraction Agency I've been promised. It is vital that public tenders, one of the most widely used areas of public resources, are carried out in a competitive and transparent environment, effective use of public resources. In this regard, it is imperative that our tender legislation be properly regulated, competed in tenders, and ensured that public needs be met in the proper terms and timely manner. The Public Contracts Act 4734, which recognizes public procurement, efficiency, accountability, public control and equal treatment as a basic principle, has bound the tender process to strict rules and is then implemented for the same purpose. The Public Contraction Law, along with the Public Contraction Act, was established to ensure implementation of the public procurement unit, quickly resolving the disputes that have arisen in the tender process, arranging and reviewing the decision before the contract. This institution, established in 2002, continues its mandate as an institution that conducts this process professionally, with its professional staff. From the day it was established, his efforts to create an active and competitive public procurement system continue as activity. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the effective use of public resources is the main goal of making the public procurement system more effective. This process continues after the emergence of new needs, the integration of acquish with the European Union, the demands of administrations, willing and other shareholders and judicial decisions. Thus, a rapid change is also felt in our country, where large investments are gaining speed and doing big projects on the world scale. Therefore, due to the differences in implementation of the institution and other judicial decisions, the need for changes in the law, as well as public tender legislation, often comes to our attention. To illustrate, the excessive low-proposal assessment process is subject to objection and objectionable complaints, and as a result, judicial decisions delay the expected service and investments. Again, for example, a problem that is a topic of conflict about foreign documents and a long-standing preventing the resolution of the judiciary, the basic solution to this need for our tender legislation, in agreement with the opposition, at a point of very healthy regulation of the dynamic field, together, is to focus on this in a denominating way. Again, it is necessary for the plaintiff in the complaining process to meet in a fair place, together in public tender legislation, in a way that prevents public resources from being transferred, as well as protecting the claims of the willing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, good lawmakers, since time is very limited, I wish that the budget of this dedicated organization of ours would be a blessing, and I wish that the work of our zealous brothers and sisters who work at this institution continue. I wish you the best of our budget. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0030par0255	Thank you, Mr. Stoneman. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the eleventh member of the 40s will speak for Mr. Denizhattin Minsolmaz. Here you go, Mr. Minsolmaz.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0031par0259	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group regarding the budget of our Privatisation Administration President 2017. I salute your grand delegation, the Veterans Assembly, and our beloved nation. Congressmans, as I begin my remarks, I condemn the treasonous attack on Istanbul Beşiktaş, which aims at our brotherhood and peace, along with the treacherous coupkers who attempted to steal national wills on July 15th. I'd like to shout again from here, from the seat of the High Assembly, that our nation has no opportunity to refer to the future of our nation through these actions of all terrorist activists and supporters, who are trying to bring peace to its presence, our nation's future. I pray for God's mercy to our civilian citizens, to our policemen, and to our martyrs who have lost their lives, and to our wounded. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been offered a total of 31.2 million dollars in the budget of our Privatisation Administration President in 2017. As it is known, privatisation was on the agenda of our country in the 1980s, when liberal economic policies began, while there was a change in the role of the state, which ran economic activity for the purposes of imported substitution development, and our state was able to focus on the well-being and safety of the people who were in its primary role. Dear friends, thanks to reforms carried out by our EC PARTY governments, the President of the Privatisation Administration, like all of our institutions and institutions, is highly sensitive to the effective, economic, efficient and legal use of public resources. In this framework, the administration has set the establishment of competition in its privatisation tenders, the highest value in privatisation tenders, and the prerequisite for not being victimised by employees. As a government, we care about accountability in every step of privatisation practices, and in all the privatisation tenders we make, we give public and transparent information. The transparency and open competition in privatisation practices within this scope have been one of the key factors to boost the trust of domestic and foreign investors. Privatisation practices, conducted until 2002 when we came to power, were limited to about $8 billion, while the total of practices carried out during our governments and bound to the contract increased to over 60 billion dollars. 88% of all privatisation revenues were obtained during our administrations. As a result of these privatisations, the public economic initiatives have eased the burden of financing over the state budget, the competitive market economy has been implemented, the savings have been added to the economy, and our capital market has been developed and obtained from privatisations, and our state has been able to perform major infrastructure, such as education, health, transport. Dear friends, with all these applications being implemented, the maximum effort has been made to prevent workers from being victimized, and a large number of workers working in privatized companies after privatisation have been assigned to other public institutions and institutions. A total of 37,910 people have thus far been given the opportunity to work at 4/C status in various public institutions and institutions. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as a result of a decisive run of privatisations to the energy sector, our board force, which was 28,000 megawatts in 2001, has been raised to about 78,500 megawatts as of October 2016. A very serious service in this regard has been provided by the private sector as a result of these opportunities. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish all the resources we have in the nation to be efficient and efficient, and I wish that our 2017 budget be good for our country and our nation. I thank the employees of the entire Finance Ministry and the employees of our Privatisation Administration, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0032par0269	Thank you, Mr. Minsolmaz. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Mehmet Emin Simsek will speak last. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0033par0273	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group over the budget of the People's Watch, Accounting and Control Standards Agency and the IRS in 2017. I salute your high council. As we begin, I strongly condemn the traitorous terrorist attack in Beşiktaş, Istanbul, on December 10th, and ask God's mercy on our martyrs, his condolences on our great nation, and urgent healing for the wounded. And again, I condemn the massacres in Aleppo, and I invite the whole world, which is insensitive, to be sensitive to these massacres. Dear friends, as it is known, from the beginning of the 2000s, major corporate bankruptcy and accounting scandals in the developed country's economies have raised the importance of an effective monitoring and public oversight system, which has greatly weakened the credibility of those who prepare and supervise financial paintings. As a result of these scandals, at the end of 2011, public oversight, accounting and control standards were established and the area was established into a whole legal structure. As of today, 16,243 members of the profession have been authorized in independent control agencies, 14.276 of which have been registered to the Independent Controller's Official Register. On the other hand, 26 universities have been co-operated, allowing 20,000 professions to train in their provinces. A neutral, correct and reliable financial reporting and a strong and independent control system, guaranteed by this, are crucial to the development of the Turkish economy. In this scope, the agency has been notified of a 5,549 audit agreement on the 2014 period of operation, 4,605, 2015. As of 2016, contracts have been reported so far, it is intended to reach 5,900 for 2016. On the one hand you can account for the importance of public oversight activities in the coming years; on the one hand you can account for large projects while building a third airport; on the other hand you can provide public supervision; on the other hand, while building a third bridge; on the other hand you can give us the account of building technique and structural quality definition; on the one hand, while passing the Bosphorus through tubes; on the other hand, skipping class in the ground mechanics and definition; on the one hand you can do 1,000 ponds in one day; and again, to reform and water about 1 million acres of land in Musian Plains; on the other hand you can give us the account of building technique and structural quality; on the other side; on the other hand; on the other hand, while we're running through the Bostrustries; on the other side; on the other side, we'll be able to provide a budget for a budget of a budget, for a budget of a budget of a budget, for a budget, for a budget, for a budget of a budget of a budget, for a budget, for a budget of a budget, for a budget of about 1 billion, and another billion, for a budget, for a budget for a budget for a budget, for a budget for a budget for a budget for a budget, for a budget for a budget for a budget, for a budget for a budget for a budget, for a budget, for a budget for a budget, for a budget for a billion for a billion, for a billion, and another, for a budget for a billion, for a billion, for a billion, for a billion, for a billion, for a billion for a billion, for a budget for a billion, for a billion, and for a budget for a budget for a budget, for a billion, and for a billion for a budget for a budget for a budget for a budget for a budget for a budget for a budget for a billion for a budget for a budget for a budget for a budget for a budget for a budget for a budget for a budget for a budget for a budget, and for a budget, and for a budget for a budget for a budget for a budget for a budget for a budget, and for a budget, for a budget for a budget, for a budget, for a budget, for a billion, for a budget for a budget, and for a As we end our conversation, we wish that 2017's budget would be a blessing, and we thank all the workers. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0034par0281	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Congressmans, this concludes the talks of the Justice and Development Party Group. Now, we're going to hear from the MPs who are going to speak on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir will speak first on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0035par0287	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. First of all, as I've said many times in different places and on this bench, a women's ministry in the country should be established instead of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Because she's not just an individual who exists in the family and can be imprisoned in the family, and women are actually expressing their own struggles with many of the problems they've been talking about for years. Now, 71 women have been raped in 11 months, 368 girls have been sexually abused. When we look at these, when we look at the size and density of women's murders, we actually see that there should be a multi-systemed and serious struggle against them. Now, basically, we've mentioned a lot of things that make women enemies, make them violent targets of men, and we've stressed that the need to be said is that women are equal to men, from higher authorities, politicians, opinion leaders, every human being in our everyday life, that we have the right to kick this into the subway, and you want to divorce me somewhere else, so I have the right to kill you in judgment, yes, or did I have the right to kill you in short skirts? Did he look sideways? He posted this photo on Facebook, on social media? Then there will be a reason for the sale. Let us not face such practices. It's really, in fact, the policies of the government that have been going on for years. These policies, the statements of the ministers, from time to time the President's remarks, unfortunately, have brought to this point the violence against women. However, women's struggle has a very important history. Women -- as we have seen on the last November 25th -- the day of the Battle of Violence Against the Women, as we saw on March 8th -- have never stepped back in this country throughout its history, and will not set foot against them again. I have no doubt about it, but the important thing is, if there's a Ministry responsible for this, it's that the Ministry performs its duties. Now, this is a blow to the citizens' rights consciousness when the most budget is divided into social benefits at the Ministry. There are things people deserve. Yeah, well, welfare is what needs to be done, but first, what needs to be developed in this country is the awareness that everyone has rights. The fact that he needs to get help or live with it is another thing, but we must not let people face us with the question of right or kindness. Now, women's murders, yes... elected women... there are women in this country, elected mayors, elected mayors, especially the mayors, who are now most of whom have been removed or arrested, especially women who have been fighting women's murders. The co-chair system is not only for our party or for the municipalities in which we have voted, but for those regions, not for good practices; for Turkey, it is an important point in Turkey's history of democracy, an important point in its future. Because it's not only the expression of equality between men and women, but it's also a point in reality that shows that it's a co-chair and a women's party that actually reaches 40 percent, but the number of women is a sad party because it doesn't reach 50 percent. This is also a very important point, and seven of our female MPs are now under arrest for the participation of our Deputy President Çağlar Demirel and Women's Assembly speaker Besime Konca. So while we're trying to increase the number of women, some are trying to reduce the number of women in politics. This is a situation for the future of this country, and we really think that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy should have reacted, at least raised its voice about women's lawmakers. It is a terrible thing, especially in his own words, that the beloved Besime Konca, our spokesman for the Women's Assembly, has been tortured, who has often spoken against torture and abuse in prisons in the General Assembly. During his journey from Diyarbakır to Batman, Besime Konca was subjected to torture by police officers, who had been constantly played with anthems, who had been provoked and subjected to such words, such as the stone or the prison. Now, Besime Konca is a member of this Parliament, and this is the reputation of Parliament, not the reputation of the People's Democratic Party. We know these pressures, we've seen them our whole lives. We all come from different parts, none of us look alike, actually, in this party. And especially when you look at our situation on June 7th, we were even more colorful, more diverse, and although none of us looked anything like each other, our past was actually very similar in terms of persecution, oppression, and treatment, and today the same thing is applied to our female friends. So, like I said, it's not a pressure on our party. We think that if this Parliament really wants to do something for its own reputation, it should also be clear that the Speaker will react to it, that he will not be able to torture any of the MPs, that he will not be tortured or abused. The child's rights permanent commission must now be established and begin operating in this Parliament immediately. We worked for the Children's Instigation and Research Commission. A report has been filed, and this report has not yet been submitted to the House. I'm afraid this House always has more important things to do than women and children. Of course I mean that important thing in quotes. But in the same way, what I just said about women's murders is true for children. The children are seriously abused, and we saw it in Karaman, and we saw it in Adıyaman. Lastly, I submitted a question motion today, for example, that four girls who were staying at a state-owned shelter in Burma on December 11, 2016 attempted mass suicide. I'm talking about four girls, they tried to kill themselves by slitting their wrists, there's a claim in the press. Yes, I'd like to ask the Minister. That's what I suggested to him today with the motion to question him. Yeah, well, let me finish by saying, how many days has it been under the roof of this House, while the cameramen have probably been working on instructions to keep our photos from being seen, on the other hand, they haven't seen the view behind our ministers in this General Assembly? Only men live there. Experts, really, bureaucrats... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...unfortunately, it's just men. In fact, the cameramen and the Assembly were supposed to show it to our people. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0036par0300	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Hüda Kaya will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0037par0303	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you. First of all, I share my regret about the democratic massacres we face in Turkey and our people and Beşiktas, the massacres against our people's lives, the killings of our people, the fact that our people's will has been uncovered, that they have not been able to be in the seats where they deserve to speak and do their duty, and that they have not been in the seats where they have been sent to Parliament to represent the will of millions of our people, and that they have been in which they are supposed to do their jobs, and that I have been condemning all these massacres and lynchings and massacres with all my heart. Dear MPs, we have recently attended an international meeting in Istanbul called the Parliamentary Union for Jerusalem. On behalf of HDP, two MPs - Mehmet Ali Aslan and I - were represented there. There was a speech made by Mr. President. In the entire conversation, I attended the talk of Palestinian and Palestinian Palestinians, Palestinian MPs in Israeli prisons, the presidents, the MPs he had elected and sent to represent the will of the Palestinian people, who had been lynched and imprisoned in Israeli prisons for months. The point where I agree... is that when we remove the words of Israel and remove the words of the Palestinian people and place the words of Turkey there, the President speaks of us. Look at the way he talks, fellas. Is it possible to disagree? From here, I greet the heroic young men of Palestine, the brave men of Ramallah, and Gaza, the women of Jerusalem, the young daughters of Jerusalem, and the wives of my brethren, who have taken possession of Jerusalem at the cost of their lives. I salute all the Palestinian refugees who have been carrying the pain of being torn from this hall, Palestine, like a ember in their hearts for decades. Today, a city we know as a syringe has disappeared, and all the inhabitants of it are refugees.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0038par0308	Who did that?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0037par0309	Turkey made planes, Turkey built planes, you know very well who did it. It goes on and on: think of a child... Yes, it's just the part about us. ▪ Every day he goes to school in the shadow of guns with a barrel pointed at him. Imagine a young man whose dreams of the future are lost in the coldness of concrete walls, in the wildness of barbed wire. Think of a woman who suddenly falls upon her with bulldozers, whose house she looks after for years, and her hand labor dowry. We know exactly who these bulldozers are.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0039par0312	They're the bulldozers of the municipalities, the bulldozers of the municipalities you have, the PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0037par0313	You seized them, and you seized them. Think of a father, whose children are thrown into prison for reasons of water, the future of children stolen. And think of a nation, in the land where they've lived for hundreds of years, being despised and treated as pariahs in their own homes. This is the life of Palestinian children, young people, women, fathers, almost every day. It's a very emotional, very beautiful speech. I wish we could use this on Turkey's soil, in our own country, for our people, who have been massacred, committed by state terror.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0040par0316	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0041par0317	Mr. Kaya, please speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0042par0318	What a state terror! Where's the state terror? There's PKK terror, tell me that.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0043par0319	You can't call it state terror.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0044par0320	The state doesn't do terrorism, but speakers like you come and talk about it here.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0045par0321	In Palestine, there is a pattern of oppression that repeats itself every day, an injustice that the whole world...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0046par0322	Mr. Kaya, please watch your language.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0047par0323	You say "PKK terrorism." Say "PKK terrorism." Say that.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0046par0324	Congressmans, I'm making the warning, please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0048par0325	Look, he comes to the people's podium, he's entitled to that, he says, state terror.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0049par0326	They're wasting my time. You stole my two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0050par0328	How quickly your time is running.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0049par0329	He stressed that there is a pattern of persecution and oppression that repeats itself daily in Palestine, that this injustice continues to be folded for half a century in spite of countless UN decisions in front of the whole world, Mr. President, but when the United Nations, the same United Nations, announces a decision on human rights and disrespect of will here in our country, you can say, "Who are you, O United Nations?"
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0051par0330	Isn't that the person the PKK killed? Aren't their children human? Tell me about it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0049par0331	It's going on again. Yes, Israel tells the Palestinians the same as you do and calls them terrorists.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0051par0332	Aren't the people the PKK killed, our soldiers human, our police not human?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0052par0333	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0053par0334	Tell the PKK terrorists something, say something to PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0054par0335	You're wasting our own people just like you wasted the Blue Marmara case.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0055par0336	Say something to the terrorists, say something to the PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0056par0337	Mr. Tamer, please...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0054par0338	In a hypocritical policy, you sold the Blue Marmara case, the Palestinians. Because none of these decisions can be implemented in the current global system, where the rule of law is the law of the superior, rather than the rule of law. Yeah, when we get back to domestic politics, we bring back the paradoxes that we live in ourselves over and over again, guys. Let Aleppo rule the Aleppos. Yes, let Gaza be ruled by Gaza. How can you have a policy, a practice, a mindset that terrorizes the will of more than 6 million people?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0057par0341	Everyone under this flag is the same; the Kurd is the same, and the Turk is the same. Remember that.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0054par0342	Your mentality is to terrorize will. History writes that. History writes that.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0057par0343	The PKK is the terrorist. Say that for once. Tell me about PKK's terror once in a while.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0058par0344	He can't, where will he say it?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0054par0345	If you... really, I'll tell you one more time, look, there's a lot of pain going on in our country. We don't want these sufferings to...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0058par0346	Either Kurd is a Turkish brother, the PKK is a bitch. Say it! The PKK is a terrorist, tell me!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0059par0347	We will free our Kurdish brothers from PKK's hand, we will save them from PKK's hand.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0054par0348	Shut up and listen. Shut up and listen.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0060par0349	Congressmans, please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0061par0350	The PKK is a terrorist, tell me that.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0054par0351	If you're truly sincere to peace, if your heart is burning for those martyrs...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0061par0352	Tell the PKK something too!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0054par0353	If you don't want soldiers, police, young, women, men to die, brother, you run the country, you run the country...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0062par0354	He's been killing for 40 years. He's a PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0054par0355	...you have all the power, let's take a step together. There is no obstacle to making peace.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0062par0356	Dig the moats, dig the pits.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0054par0357	There's no power that can't do that. America will stop us?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0062par0358	Dig holes that end the solution process, then, and talk about them.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0054par0359	America will stop us from making peace? Is Israel going to stop us from making peace? Who are we supposed to take advice from?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0062par0360	The PKK is their tong, and you're carrying water to them.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0054par0361	There's only one will in this country, where you raise your voice, your criticism, your terroristism, and you tell your senior executives to take a step towards peace, you have to tell them what you think. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0062par0363	Say the same words to the PKK for once. You can't say anything against PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0063par0364	Say a word to the PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0062par0365	You can't say anything against PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0064par0366	Mr. Kaya, the state of the Republic of Turkey is fighting terrorism, not slaughtering. If you repeat your statement like that, you'll be making a more realistic, more meaningful statement that suits this bench.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0062par0367	State terror. He says without shame.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0065par0368	It's a little quiet.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0062par0369	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0065par0370	Don't let the truth hurt you!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0066par0371	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0067par0372	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0066par0373	Mr. President, there's been some bullying against the government and our group. I'd like to take your word for it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0067par0374	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0066par0378	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I told you yesterday that we'd like to take the process as much as possible as possible in the specific terms of budget talks, but I'm condemning the House, the Parliament, for once, the humiliation of Parliament, in an uncertain approach, in which some of the MPs who have sometimes come to the House, who don't know what the legislatures are, who probably can't follow the stance of their own party. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here, three days ago, in an atmosphere where we had 44 martyrs, it's a despicable approach to say that a person who didn't say that the infamous PKK had done this job is state terror; it's not in line with Congress, this culture, it's not in line with Parliament. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Beyond that, dear friends, from the Palestinian-Israel example, it's a strange mistake to be compared to Palestinian heroes who can't seem to get out of their dilemma and put their backs to terror every day, so to speak. I can only say shame on you, Congressman, because of his past. Dear friends, if there will be a relationship between the HDP and the government in the matter of Palestine and Israel, those who do not condemn Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) may be Israeli soldiers, but I would like to say that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Other than that, dear friends, while you were being lifted from immunity, you insisted that we lift up here, challenge you! We have, and now you object to the bill, to the reaping of what you sow. It's not just your representatives, but where were you when our President of Youth Arms was martyred in Diyarbakir, did you open your mind, open your mouth? After the massacre of 44 martyrs in Beşiktaş, you were unable to sign the text signed by the three parties as partners. Shameless state terror, you say. Look in the mirror, you're reaping what you've planted. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0068par0388	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0069par0389	Mr. President, I demand my say, my answer.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0068par0390	Why?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0069par0391	Because he made an accusation and an accusation against me.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0070par0392	We gave him half of what he deserved, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0071par0393	Two minutes wasn't enough for half.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0069par0394	And he used harsh expressions called "dignity."
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0072par0395	The same word is used for anyone who calls it state terror.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0073par0396	The MPs didn't say anything about you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0074par0397	Is that all right, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0073par0398	He just said some things about your speech and your testimony, which I don't think I'm gonna be able to...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0075par0399	He must have used out-of-date expressions.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0076par0400	Have you not transgressed the bounds? You're calling the state a terrorist, you're saying you've been a state terror. And tell the PKK something.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0077par0401	You sold Filistin. You say, "Don't do it, Ms. Hüda."
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0075par0402	He must've used out of line, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0078par0403	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0079par0404	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, will you sit down? I'm talking to Mr. Kaya.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0075par0405	Mr. President, he's used extreme statements.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0079par0406	I've given you enough warning. Please, you have to make speeches that fit this bench.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0075par0407	I'd like to take my word for it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0079par0408	If you want to make that statement, I'll give you my word for two minutes, or I'll interrupt you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0080par0409	Which taunt, Mr. President, should answer accordingly.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0079par0410	Let's just answer whatever this is about.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0081par0411	The one who didn't show up to the council, the one whose position in the party was unaccounted for...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0080par0412	He's not coming, he's not aware of his group.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0082par0413	How many times has he been here?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0083par0414	How long are you coming, Mr. Bulent? Turn around, turn around.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0084par0415	Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0085par0416	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0084par0417	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, I'm talking to Mr. Kaya.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0086par0418	How many times do you come?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0087par0419	Yeah, how many times has he been here?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0088par0420	Turn around, look how much has come, how much has come?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0087par0421	You've been gone for three months.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0089par0422	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0090par0424	Congressmans, you're using very dirty statements.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0091par0425	We haven't given you half of what you deserve.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0092par0426	Not as much as you, not as you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0090par0427	You're using very dirty words.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0093par0428	You're doing state terror. You're saying that, say something to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0090par0429	Look, in my speech, you understand what you want, what you want...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0093par0430	Say something to the terrorists. Say something to the people who attacked the children of this country.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0094par0431	You can't say state terror. Under the circumstances, you can never say "state terrorism."
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0090par0432	Please don't waste my time.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0095par0433	I'm following your time, Mr. Kaya, so continue your conversation.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0096par0434	But, Mr. President, they don't make me talk.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0097par0435	Please, what kind of work is this? Please...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0098par0436	Shut them up, I've got time to...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0099par0437	Congressmans, please do not interfere.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0097par0438	Sir, can you speak to the Republic of Turkey, to his state from this stand?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0100par0439	No one can say "state terrorism."
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0097par0440	We're fighting terrorism.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0101par0441	Mr. Look, Mr. Rock is on the stand right now.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0097par0442	They fight like lions. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0443	If you'll just shut up, I'll talk to you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0101par0444	Mr. Kaya, go ahead, please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0445	Don't tweeze and choose between my speeches. You do this everywhere.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0103par0446	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0447	You do this everywhere.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0103par0448	The PKK is slaughtering Kurds, slaughtering Kurdish teenage girls, taking them to the mountains.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0449	In my speech, the will...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0103par0450	Tell them something.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0451	President, please shut them up.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0104par0452	Mr. Kaya, go ahead, please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0453	No, I don't understand what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0104par0454	Please, can you continue?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0105par0455	How will it go on, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0456	Don't provoke them.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0104par0457	Mr. Bak, please don't interfere. I'm listening. Come in.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0459	You're still doing this, my friends, because you're in the habit of tweezing their speeches. In my speech, look, my heart burns to all the massacres, both political and Beşiktas.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0106par0460	Who made Beşiktas?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0107par0461	Who did it? Tell me his name, the name of the man who did it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0462	...hold on to Kobani, and I express my heartfelt reproach and regret.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0108par0463	Curse Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and you have made Beşiktaş.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0464	We shouldn't have these consequences, we should take our country to better times together.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0108par0465	Yeah, curse me once, once.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0466	We have to be in solidarity for this.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0109par0467	Keep your distance from the PKK. Do politics, do politics here.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0468	Others will not come to this country with armies from heaven. You can't tell this country from the outside...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0109par0469	Put some distance between you and the PKK!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0470	Will you shut up? There will be no outsiders in this country. We have to do it anyway. Let us not condemn our people to these sufferings. Look, we're asking you to investigate the Kobani events, you refuse.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0110par0473	Leave Kobani to Besiktaş, and come to Beşiktas.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0474	We're asking you to investigate the murders, you refuse.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0111par0476	Thank you, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0477	After that, the state won't be criticized.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0112par0478	He's terrorizing the government. You call him that.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0102par0479	Here, let him come out.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0112par0480	You won't.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0113par0481	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0114par0482	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0112par0483	You can't tell the government from this bench.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0114par0484	Mr. Kaya... Mr. Tamer... please...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0115par0485	They close one eye and talk from one side.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0116par0486	I'm just saying for the record.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0114par0487	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0116par0488	Mr. Turan has expressed, and he's just wrong; he wasn't killed by the president of the Diyarbakır Youth Corps, he was killed by a district president.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0117par0489	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0118par0490	Former head of youth arms, dear, why?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0116par0491	We're one of the first parties to condemn him or any civilian politician from any party; whoever it comes from, we're still condemning him today.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0117par0492	For God's sake, don't do this!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0119par0493	condemn the PKK, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0120par0494	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0121par0495	Except for those who speak of it as an act of self-reproachment.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0122par0496	Who went to the burrito, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0121par0497	We're wondering if some of the gangs who took action after their own statements the other day will be able to run weapons against our Balıkesir county building, broadcast a message of condemnation about the vandals who destroyed our Konya province building yesterday. And we don't know how he kept track of our friend coming in and out of Congress. If so, it's not just being here during voting; it's going to look back and see how long they're here.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0123par0499	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0124par0500	We're always here, the polls are clear.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0121par0501	Look back, you'll see.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0125par0502	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0126par0503	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0125par0504	It's not about keeping score. Here's the thing: every party has its stance. They're the most beautiful representative of this position. We've been listening to HDP people all morning, they're talking in a certain balance, they've been talking more carefully since yesterday. That's why I'm saying you came out here the first time. It's not acceptable to call state terror, to insult the military, to make it look like an Israeli soldier. I'd like to think that the HDP didn't agree either. So I'll tell you again about the absence.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit02spe0126par0505	Okay, thank you. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit03spe0126par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 40th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0126par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 40th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Account for 2015 1) Competitiveness Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Central Management Account for 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Chairman of the IRS 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2015 1) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2015 Central Management Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Ağrı MP Diryet Taşdemir will speak. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0127par0039	Mr. President, on the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, in fact, our party's policy was to be expressed by Mr. Besime Konca, who, unfortunately, was yesterday on the stand -- our friend Besime was taken into custody by the middle of the night, along with our Group Deputy Minister Çağlar Demirel. Besime was forced out of the vehicle, handcuffed and taken to Batman in the middle of the night. In Batman, what changed in the court's decisions or at least a few hours later, what they saw responsible for our friend Besime, who had been released, who had not made an arrest, was again taken into custody in Diyarbakir, our friend Besime? Both of our friends were taken to Kandira Prison today. Of course, these policies for our party, for us, for women are not new to us. In fact, there has been a serious lynching campaign against women for our party since December 4th. We're being targeted one by one. Trolls run the country, frankly. The trolls share who will be arrested, who will be charged with what punishment, who will be targeted, who has said what from which statement, sheets and sheets on social media. These trolls, unfortunately, sometimes become journalists, sometimes become politicians, and sometimes there are dozens of people whose names we don't know. After this lynching campaign, which these trolls are targeting, actually creating their politics, creating their concept, the courts are forced to step in, either arresting, threatening, or trying to intimidate people in different ways. I'd like to say that I have once again condemned this stand, and I condemn this attitude to women's freedom, especially the sexist language that trolls have been using on social media for days. Obviously, these policies, this rhetoric, and the psychological situation that he's put into the country today, for us, are not random for women at all. Because we're run by a president, a government that clearly declares that it doesn't believe in equality between men and women. We women, women, women who have waged women's struggle for equal rights, equal treatment and equal and free living for years, and we, in particular, have sat at the top of politics one day, with the concept of government policies, in the Constitution, in law, in law, in order to lift the concept of independence. So all of these policies have been an OHR process for women for hundreds of years. Women have never been in an ordinary situation. When we look at statistics today, we know that women have been going through a state of affairs for years at home, at work, in street, in prisons, in political parties. But especially in the 14-year period of AKP power, the women's state of state of emergency has become increasingly heavy. With your politics, your sexist rhetoric, women's lives have become unbearable. Look, women are just exposed to violence because they wear shorts or because they work out in the park on the street. Those who practice this violence are first released by the courts, and then, as a result of women's objections and struggle -- which is also a strange situation -- they are either sanctioned or sentenced to be arrested. Frankly, women live in a kind of country. These policies of yours, frankly, are getting deeper and deeper. You're trying to get it all back with policies that will block women's 100 years of struggle, their lives, their freedom perspectives. Look, just your approach to co-chairing during the State of Emergency clearly shows your position in the face of women's historical achievements. Why is the wife so afraid of the presidency? Because you're afraid of the idea of women's liberation. A society where women are liberated is a free society, a society where politics is free, a society where equality is clearly and clearly socialized. In this community reality, there will be no response to the policies that you are obviously trying to resuscitate today. That's why women are so targeted, our co-chair system is so targeted. That's why for days, even months, our co-chairs have been suspended from prisons or their duties. Look, there are only seven women in the AKP's 18 major cities, 49 provinces, 558 mayors. In HDP, there are 101 co-mayors in the Party of Democratic Territories. Half of these 101 municipalities are co-chairs, or municipalities where women's will is represented. So, your antipathy towards this idea of liberation, transforming society and creating equality, frankly, sexist rhetoric, makes women targets. You've somehow made our co-chair system, our egalitarian system, an open target for your attacks. Look, it's sexist, misogynistic politics, not just in newspapers, not in social life, but in these very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very much in these Parliaments, and in the issues that have been discussed, I can make it very clear that we have witnessed a lot of them. Just the other day, there was a lot of sexist rhetoric on this bench, from the level of ministers to the lawmakers. It was used to insult women. I'd like to say once again that we are here to condemn all this politics. Again, I can make it very clear that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has been integrated into the war agenda. Through ASDEP, the Department of Defense's subsidiary operates as a ministry. At the meeting of the Commission on Family Association for Family and Social Policy Minister Sema Ramazanoglu, the information he gave regarding the Family Social Support Project is proof of that. Ramazanoğlu, the ASDEP Project (AsDEP) has stated that the terrorist victim has been carried out in four counties and districts and 11 provinces, including Cizre, Şırnak, Silvio and Mardin, aimed to resolve the problems of citizens' families with a focused focus. This policy lies behind 84% of the budget for the Ministry of Family and Social Policy divided into social benefits. The ministry's work presents a unilateral approach to the family over the transmission of religious values and Turkish cultural structure. In Turkey, religious values outside Sunni Islam, Turkish tradition, cultural values outside its customs are clearly ignored. So clearly, the 14-year-old AKP government has a female prototype in its head. This reasonable female prototype, frankly, is a prototype that lives at home, gives birth to three children. Women are faced with a policy that wants to back down the struggle for freedom of women, who wants to push them back, who wants to take their earnings away, but let me say this: We women have fought for a hundred years in every aspect of our life against this male, sexist, sexist, sovereign politics, and then we will rise again in the face of these policies, and we will surely give women an equal, free life. Before I finish, I'm sending my regards and regards to our imprisoned co-chairs. Once again, I send my regards and my love to our MPs and to our first ladies' wives' presidents.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0128par0049	On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will now speak. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0129par0051	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, we've been having a debate over the 2017 budget talks for days, and dozens of our fellow lawmakers have expressed their opinion. The fact is that the 2017 budget is not really a budget that brings freedom, peace, happiness to this country's poor, laborers, women, our own peoples. Thus, in 2017, the 2017 budget seems to have left us face to face with the fact that the minimum wagers, employees, workers, villagers, the economic crisis will only make our trades even poorer, so the dollar will increase, and the devaluation will increase a little bit more. Dear friends, there is no way that budget talks can contribute to the country's welfare, social life, peace of the country, to the actual outcome of mathematical accounts, or to the fact that the government has brought to our attention by just numerical statements, on paper, or on the government. Without a doubt, the only way for budgets and natural government policy to achieve results in our country's reality is primarily based on the solution of chronic problems, structural problems in the country. No matter how well you make a perfect budget, but in the circumstances of conflict, dissolution, dissociation, exclusion in the country, there is no outcome unless there is peace. Dear friends, on this parliamentary platform, many of our friends have actually voiced many problems, but in this parliamentary platform, we can't, unfortunately, make a solution in this country, with words of heroism in the way that might rub the emotions of the locals, that would be tired of the basic problems in which the country is involved, the conflicting process, social life is torn apart. In this country, the main chronic problems today are the Kurdish problem, which, without a doubt, is a hundred years old. Again, there are problems with the Alevi belief that has been going on for a hundred years in faith. There are fundamental problems with other religious units and other cultural structures. Instead of solving these problems in a common denominator, instead of building solutions around the common will, constantly producing a policy over the majority of faith, the majority of ethnic structure, which, of course, cannot bring peace to this country, as we politicians in daily life, beyond those who stand on this stand and talk about it, cause the dissolution of partnership between a Kurdish and a Turk, for example, to become increasingly ethnically based or on belief in major cities, and to be able to build separate neighborhoods, to break down feelings among the people living in the same building. We have to underline a fact. Even if we deny it here, even if we close our eyes, even if our ears don't hear it, there's a Kurdish reality in this country as much as the reality of the sun, and it's been presumed for 90 years that the Kurdish people have no natural rights. Perhaps the culmination of this destruction is the coup d'état of September 12, 1980. Today, the PKK is a result, not a reason, in which every member of the group represents terror, terrorism, and the concept of terrorists. Of course, we had this problem with the AKP. We didn't call it that, we had this problem before the AKP. In particular, 90 years of politics, but in particular, the executions of the September 12 military coup revealed and gave birth to Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). So, by criminizing our slogans here, through threatening language, with the language of threat, with the language of honour or on the democratic legitimacy of the HDP, which is Turkey's third-largest party -- in the way that would undermine its legitimacy on the democratic political floor, by locking in spouses presidents and 10 MPs, it means destroying the basis for discussion in this parliament, the basis for a solution in this parliament, encouraging dissension, dissension, conflict among our peoples with common will to live in our country. We're even closer to the Syrian truth. If Syria hadn't suppressed its religious problems on the basis of its ethnic-based problems, Assad-Baas nationalism, if the Baas dictatorship had been able to resolve these issues on democratic legitimate ground for years, problems would not have happened in Syria today. But rather than solving the 14-year-old AKP power, rather than solving the Kurdish problem on democratic grounds, instead of bringing a system that will make the centralist authoritarian structure decentralising, strengthening local governments, sharing the powers with local governments, instead of creating a fundamental solution, unfortunately, it has raised two more problems, rather than creating a more dictatorial, authoritarian state organisation, as the state has gone to the structure of the state, as it has described in 14 years. That's the nature of unresolvedness. What is this? Over the past 14 years, the organization of the state, which he had kept in his heart, that he had been a coalition, that he had provided all the resources of the state, that he had brought to the level of the state, that he had brought to the level of justice, was a new act of violence against himself, a coup attempt. It's actually the 14-year-old AKP government that produced this, that gave it an opportunity within the system, that triggered this coup. Again, nearly 80, 90 percent of all foreign ISIS militants or terrorists have crossed Turkey's borders, including these foreign terrorists who have moved to Syria. Aleppo fell today. The Baas regime is somehow leading these terrorist groups north towards Turkey's borders, and these terrorists that are going through Turkey will start to return to Turkey. So, it's been the AKP's government that has created a terror in the past 14 years, and an ISIS terror in our heads. Now, dear friends, what we need to do here is that the historical duty on this House... is that the Constitutional Court's ruling on the legal rights of the Constitutional Court... is on the surface, while a number of lawmakers who are in the same position as our lawmakers are in the same situation as their exfil in the past -- despite the fact that our lawmakers are in prison today -- have been detained -- not to mention the fact that the President has not recognised the Constitutional Court's decisions -- has not yet been held in contempt of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, it is not possible to talk about judicial independence, judicial neutrality, in a country where the Constitutional Court is not recognised, that it has escaped the influence of politics. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I hope that this Parliament will carry out its historic mission, to restore the language of democracy, the language of peace. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0130par0064	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, 5th, Mr. Burcu Çelik Özkan will speak. Here you are, Mr. Steel Özkan.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0131par0068	Mr. President, you're all aware of recent arrests against our co-chairs and deputies. Unfortunately, the pressures on society extend to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our lawmakers, elected by 100 thousand votes, are held in prison on grounds of no arrest in any legal state. Just yesterday, our Siirt MP, Mr. Besime Konca, and our Deputy Director of the Group, Çağlar Demirel, were taken into custody in an arbitrary manner with accusations that could not be a cause for arrest again. These pressures, in fact, show how much we don't learn from history. It was brought upon us many years ago by the same persecution and oppression, but, as you all know, it made us stronger. And it must be known today that we will come out of these dark days in the light of tomorrow sooner or later. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one of the things I wish to discuss with you today is the conditions of the prison of our Parliament's sole co-Chair, Mr. Yüksekdağ. He's Trickster No. 1. He's in a one-man cell in a lu f-type prison. However, our Co-Chair is under special lockdown. Since 16 November, neither the lawyer nor the lawyer have been allowed to take notes in writing in their opinions. In addition, visiting lawyers can't even give our president documents or files on cases. These are open violations of both isolation and the most basic right to defend and the immunity of client-lawyer relations, and on the other hand, open torture. Dear friends, the prison administration has found a solution in its own way to exchange information and documents in particular, and has told lawyers: "If you can't take notes, keep in mind if you can't exchange documents. Dear friends, as someone who visited countless prisons, we see that the arbitrary and unlawful treatments of prison administrations continue in Kandira Prison. Our co-Chair's cell is completely empty. He is not allowed to communicate with anyone in prison, nor is the use of rights, such as conversation, access to the common area. All of this is not just the punishment of our co-Chairs in the HDP itself, but the reflections of insufferability towards a female leader in the women's person. However, Mr. Yüksekdağ was born in Adana, where he was elected MP and formed a long-standing peace bridge. The arrest of our co-Chair, who talks about life and peace together, is actually an obstacle to the views he advocates. What happened is an attack on the determination to live together in the country. Now, I want to read to you a message from our President: it is normal for those whose life, his world, and his anxiety are limited to their own body and ambitions to assume that those who have not fought an idea that has been integrated with their people are holding us hostage when they take our body hostage. It's like trying to pick flowers to prevent spring. However, as we've already stated, even though our object is inside, our ideas, our people, and our struggle are outside. We're just a form of the coming justice and freedom of one body. Our captors will not be able to deliver spring. Dear friends, we've always said, again, that as the area of democratic politics and dialogue narrows, the area of violence, weapons, wars expands; the first reason is the result. A man with a little sense and reason knows that by changing the outcome, he cannot change the cause, he must do the opposite. There's only one concept you're holding on to, people. You're always talking about the concept of a nation, where your analysis begins and ends. So, what is it, guys? If we ask you, you'll start ranking common history, common culture. So what do we have in common, what's different? Our wealth, our income, our rights, our freedoms, what? What you call a nation is not a whole in itself, but an internal conflict between the oppressed and the oppressed. It is a geography between all the bosses and the workers you call the nation, between the Turkish and Kurdish people, between the dominant mentality and the woman, between all the beliefs, and which the political power rules by feeding on these polarizations. So the only question remains: are we going to allow power to deepen the polarizations that exist by calling it, or are we going to have the pluralist structure of the peoples of Turkey, with their faith, with their culture, with their history? Our path is clear from the beginning; we wished for differences to live together in a way that Turkey's political history has not seen so much. We have become a uniting force by putting together different groups, such as the one we call "the one" and "the one" and "the one" and "the one" and "the one" and "the one" and "the one" and "the one" and "the one" and "the one" and "the one" and "the one" and "the one" and "the other." We said we no longer want to fight, but together, we want to build a new life in peace, in favor of labor, in favour of women. On June 7th, HDP put this power on display and said stop existing progress. That's exactly the kind of success that puts HDP on the target board. There's a way to overcome this for power, dear friends. To suppress, arrest, and in some way lower the voice of the peoples of Turkey, those who strengthen this common battle line, this bridge between the peoples, those who want to establish lasting peace in the country, those who are fighting for freedom and democracy. Dear lawmakers, another issue I'd like to discuss is the process of constitutional construction. I think all party groups agree that changing the existing Constitution is the point of revealing a constitution in accordance with the pluralist structure of Turkey. The fact that the existing Constitution is a product of a coup has led to a lack of basic human rights and freedoms. That's why over the years the Constitution has turned into a patched bundle. In similar circumstances, it is no coincidence that a constitutional amendment is spoken these days. Even the discussion of the state-of-the-art constitutional amendment, which will determine the future of the country, clearly shows that the constitution will not be a constitution based on the scope, pluralism and fundamental human rights and freedoms. What needs to be done before discussing the Constitution is the removal of the FULCRUM that rules out democratic debate, dear friends. Since the Constitution is a social contract, it is clear that there are no constitutional conditions in the present economic, social, political polarisation environment. The most fundamental issue that should not be skipped during the constitutional amendment is the integration of all segments of society into the process. A constitution under closed-door political accounts is unacceptable, not for the future of a country, but for the future of a narrow framework. Dear lawmakers, I've reviewed the Constitutional amendment proposal on a matter of fact. We are facing an offer that will be removed from parliament's control authority, that will remove the geneor and parliamentary investigative mechanisms, that control and decision-making mechanisms will be collected in one hand, that can be decided on any subject by the law. This proposal is the effort of one person to gather the separation of forces between law, execution, and jurisprudence under the name of the Union of Powers and harmony. In this case, the democratic achievements of the long-standing struggle in Turkey are wanted to be destroyed. The monitoring of policies that deepen all of society's problems, the implementation of war, conflicting policies inside and outside, the implementation of political operations against democratic opposition, the aim of liquidation of democratic politics and democratic opposition of any institutional, legal rights gain. The fact that this proposal was originally made to look like a hijacker from a fire, the fact that it is different published on the Capitol website shows that the process is far from serious and transparent, which clearly reveals that. In the first instance, no amendment motion for the 67th amendment, which has been completely removed from the Constitution, is clearly incompatible with the rule of lawmaking, without a petition on the subject. When we look at the 67th article, it is important to say that in terms of public knowledge, the item organises the rights to choose, choose, and engage in political activities. It would be a very kind approach, dear friends, to think that such an important substance has been wronged. It's not too late for anything, in spite of all the negative situations, in case it doesn't go well, in spite of the unaccounted-for approach. Today we have to stop the compromise that we haven't seen in a long time, and stop the bad going on together. The path we're on doesn't lead to better days. We all need to know and see it very well, especially the government at first. Before it's any later, I salute you all with the desire to establish the lasting peace our people desire, to build Turkey on the basis of human rights and freedoms, for our future again.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0132par0082	Thank you. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Istanbul MP Garo Paylan will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0133par0085	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm afraid we're going through the days when evil becomes ordinary. Blood, tears, deaths, massacres drive our society to a serious despair in society, and the political institution can't find a solution other than the way we're yelling at each other right now, the way we're investigating each other. In the history of Turkey, we've been in these dark depths over and over again, and we've got blood, tears, and pain, and no party at the political institution can be in those dark times. Believe me, the prosecution is writing everything down, and after we pass through this dark void, no one will be able to defend the policies today, and those who run this policy will be mortified, my friends. Now, there has always been a propaganda mechanism in Turkey's political history to be approved of these policies. To get society to approve these policies, that propaganda machine comes in and gets community approval from those policies. First, the truth is killed, the press is silenced, and then the public's approval of it is taken, so be it. It's said to the community that it's about policies. Polarization, camping is activated. The state is a prisoner of security policies. The political institution will be shut down. Those who refer to it as solutions are labeled as traitors. Security policy is blessed. And how are these perceptions created, my friends? Turkey has always been that way in its political history. You didn't build this mechanism, you're just continuing the same policy. This perception is created by a propaganda machine. Look, I came here this morning with a Nevşehir cabbie. I watched A News last night, brother. I didn't have any prejudice against Kurds, but after watching A News last night, I'd like to see a Kurdish. Oh, brother, I said don't fall for this game. That's the perception that's meant to be created. I said, "Don't fall into this game, brother, with this perception to manipulate you and turn the Turk against the Kurd, the Kurd against the Turk, against the other people." But this machine is in Turkey, it's in the world. Hitler had a propaganda minister, Goebbels, who served in 1933, and he was there to make society look like a traitor to polarization, camping, certain social areas, and he succeeded, making the Jews look like traitors, others, leftists, socialists, and ultimately, Hitler crushed social areas with this propaganda mechanism, carried out genocide, and led the whole world into a fire along with Europe. The assassinations, the arrests, the press silences in Congress, the propaganda of Goebbels, my friends, all those arrests, massacres, assassinations, and the mechanism of Goebbels, in order for society to approve of a crime, even for genocide. We have a propaganda mechanism. There's a pool media, there's trolls, trolls run by you, there is. The written press is at your disposal: websites, media hitmen.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0134par0091	You're the greatest troll.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0133par0092	You have lieutenants at all media agencies; you have captains on every channel, every newspaper to manage a perception. For example, Mehmet Ali Yalçındağ's correspondence with Berat Albayrak (Alo Fatihes) has been leaked, and I don't need to give too many examples.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0134par0093	You fell all the way down to them!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0133par0094	This mechanism is online, and this perception is being managed. Last night, I took another cab, and he was a cabbie with a bender.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0134par0096	Shame on you, you've fallen so far!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0133par0097	Brother, did you say, "Let there be an evil slaughter in Beşiktas!" Because for the past two days, that machine, all the trolls, thousands of trolls, dozens of televisions, newspapers, is trying to create a sense of what I say, oh, my God! And it puts me in charge of the identity assassination.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0134par0098	That's not a good thing. You just said it, but...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0133par0099	Who's doing this? I thought someone was acting group president, but it turns out he was the lead, he confessed himself to our Twitter correspondence.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0134par0100	Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0133par0101	He shared something like this...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0134par0102	Yeah, show me.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0135par0103	Show me!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0133par0104	Sir, there's a 16-year-old woman...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0134par0105	18.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0133par0106	...he said, "Oh, my God!," and all the media said, "Oh, my God!"
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0134par0107	There's your statement, don't lie!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0136par0108	If that's what you're going to do, let's stop.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0134par0109	He's showing me my picture. It's Mr. Bulent.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0137par0111	Friends, look, the political institution should do this: What we did was we made this 16-year-old woman become a 16-year-old.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0134par0112	I don't know him. Say that.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0138par0113	Please...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0137par0114	What have we done that we have filled it with so much hatred and anger that we are subjecting it to the assassination of a person?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0139par0115	Yeah, you did that, bro. Turks, Kurds are brothers, Turks and Kurds are brothers.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0138par0116	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0137par0117	Dear friends, look, that young friend of ours has been taken into custody, and according to the inside news, he's being subjected to abuse.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0140par0118	What young friend?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0137par0119	Right now, you can say, "Oh!," but we have a mechanism that creates killers from babies, and we have a mechanism that makes babies "Oh!"
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0141par0120	That mechanism belongs to you, that mechanism belongs to you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0137par0121	As long as we don't question that mechanism, folks, we're gonna have more of this. Look, here's a mechanism that creates killers from babies. A teacher is able to put an execution on the hands of ten-year-olds. This is the mechanism that creates killers from babies.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0141par0123	The Minister told me yesterday, said it was wrong, said there was an investigation. You tell him yourself.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0137par0124	Another mechanism is, for example, Mr. Bulent Turan, three of the four parties signed the statement. He says, "Well, does anyone have any doubts about the perpetrator of the attack?" Woe to those who treat them like a party! This is the mechanism that creates killers from babies. You write the declaration yourself, then you try to impose it on HDP. If we were to agree with you guys, it wouldn't be a solution, so we're at separate parties. You don't have a solution, we have a solution.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0141par0125	You're building a solution with terrorism or terrorism!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0137par0126	The solution isn't just reprimanding, damn it. It's not saying it, we're already saying it, but we have to say the next step. Mr. Bulent Turan shared something else, shared a logo showing the HDP logo with bombs.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0142par0128	What did he do, what did he do? Let the liar be like you!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0143par0129	Mr. Turan, please... take your word for it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0137par0130	See, here's the document.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0142par0131	Well, don't say "shared." That's a very misleading statement.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0137par0132	You shared it, all your followers see it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0142par0133	No, I didn't. He's a lying son of a bitch, a lying son of a bitch!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0144par0134	Mr. Turan, take your word for it and explain, please...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0137par0135	You like it, you like it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0142par0136	I didn't share.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0137par0137	You liked it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0142par0138	And I really like it, yeah, they did it really well.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0137par0139	One more thing you've said, she's put a skirt on her tie. You said you'd tell your lady friends here not to wear a skirt. Look, here, you shared.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0142par0140	No one gets turned on.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0145par0141	Mr. Paylan, don't bother with individuals, please, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0142par0142	I'm talking about terrorists in ties.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0146par0143	Friends, we're politicians, in the position, in the position of producing solutions. We need to talk solutions. Blaming, cursing, all right, but where's the solution?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0147par0144	Say something to the PKK, say something to the terrorists, tell TAK.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0146par0145	Dear friends, look, by assassinating HDP people with character, you can create lynch mobs for other 16-year-olds in the community, you can expose them to assassinations, you can expose them to massacres. That's what happened in the history of Turkey, before September 12th, the leftists were made to hit the rightists, the leftists, but the next thing you know, there's a device underneath it, a device that drives us into the dark. As long as we don't question that mechanism, as long as we turn the country over to the people we think are the group's vice president, but we find out that he's the leader, we'll have a lot more darkness if we hand over the country to those he confesses to. We must question this darkness, my friends. We have to question how 16-year-olds become like this, how they hate each other, how they can be made to suffer massacres.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0148par0146	That's what you made them do, take them up the mountain.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0147par0147	That's your propaganda.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0146par0148	As long as we don't question them, we may be exposed to more darkness. Mr. Minister of Interior Süleyman Soylu said after the massacre, "Vengeance!" and more than 500 have been arrested, arrested, taken into custody, and political operations have been carried out on our MPs. You can do these things, you have power, but the point is, how do you use power? Are you using power for good or evil?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0149par0150	Tell the PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0146par0151	Do your policies work for the coupgers, or does it help to bring the political institution in? As long as we don't question them, we're gonna get a lot of socks on our heads, fellas. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0150par0154	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0151par0155	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0150par0156	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0151par0157	Mr. President, the speaker just mentioned my name, and they picked on me very heavily.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0150par0158	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0151par0163	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We knew that there was a limit to lying, but we saw that there was no limit, and we knew that there was no limit to slander, and that there was no limit to shame, and that there was no limit to it. Dear friends, look, I'm not going to name a girl on social media - she says she's dead, oh! This girl has photos of her with the so-called peaceful deputy.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0152par0166	He told her about the peace.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0151par0167	I'm saying: do you know this one? No insults, no threats, no swearing, no trolling. I'm hungry, what troll do I have? The troll is the secret one, and I say, I'm Baunt Turan, do you know the one who says, "O Regent, when the riot force is killed, let's be well?" You can say you don't know him, you can say it was wrong, I admit it. From the non-trol representative, the 16-year-old girl wrote it wrong. What is wrong with the 16-year-old girl? Even carrying it here shows where you came from. You said peace, you violated peace, you said agreement, you violated agreement. Dear friends, I'm going to make this short in case I'm short on time.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0153par0169	Read the rest.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0151par0170	And he also said that I have insulted women by saying, "Dear, well-known, very peaceful, so-called pro-democratic, highly-promised terrorists." I stand by my word, I'm not saying sexist, I'm saying male terrorists in skirts, running away. I called the male terrorists who escaped wearing skirts an asshole, and they... I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0154par0173	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0155par0174	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0154par0175	Mr. Paylan...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0156par0176	Troll, the secret, I'm not a troll, I'm open here.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0155par0177	He said I was a liar, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0156par0178	Liar, Mr. President, that's the statement.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0157par0179	Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0156par0180	It's not my account. Say it, say it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0158par0181	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0159par0182	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0156par0183	No, what's a troll? I told you, I'm not a secret.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0160par0184	Please...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0161par0186	Dear friends, we're all politicians, and every day, wherever I go, I get pictures taken with hundreds of people, and I'm sure you do, too.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0156par0187	You could have said that.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0161par0188	I'm sure you're taking pictures, we're taking pictures with hundreds of people, and we're not responsible for what hundreds of people have done, but I know it's a mistake, that it's a big mistake.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0156par0189	You wrote it wrong. You said it was wrong.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0161par0190	I said it was a big mistake, but then I said something else. I said, "What did we do, friends?" We got our 16-year-old kid to say, "Oh, let it be after a massacre." How did we get a 16-year-old boy to say "Oh." ...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0156par0191	Look in the mirror.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0162par0192	What did you tell her?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0161par0193	The other thing is, there were massacres in Cizre, Sur. Your 16-year-olds called it "Oh."
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0162par0194	They didn't say that, of course, to terrorists.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0161par0195	As long as we don't question it, friends, we live in more darkness. You're saying it's a lie; is that a lie? I put on a skirt for the tie type..... he put on a skirt for his people.... is it true, that you share it? Isn't it a lie that you like bombs, that you like the bomb HDP logo?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0163par0196	He's lost. You said "shared." He's lost.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0161par0197	Lie or lie?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0164par0198	Too creative, too creative!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0161par0199	Let's question how we got our 16-year-olds into this, shall we?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0165par0200	What do you call people who run away in skirts? Are you defending terrorists or are you defending terrorists?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0166par0201	You train them, you train them. You'll question yourself; you're the one who trained them, you're the one who gave them ideology.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0167par0202	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0168par0203	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0169par0204	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0167par0205	I'd like to answer, if I may.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0168par0206	Is it okay if I speak first?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0169par0207	Oh, yeah? Okay, Mr. Altay, let me listen to you first.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0167par0208	I'm standing, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0168par0209	Mr. Bulent, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0169par0210	Mr. Turan, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0168par0213	Mr. President, in these difficult days of Turkey, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must breathe to Turkey. Such an argument at such a point in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, Turkey, is of no use to Turkey; it will not help our national unity, peace, the integrity of Turkey. I'd like to invite all members of parliament to a little bit of common sense here. Turkey has its eye on Parliament, after all. The primary mission of this Assembly is not to cause Turkey to separate, but to unite and strengthen it. On this occasion, I took it upon myself to call for common sense to both groups, perhaps out of line. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0169par0216	Thank you, Mr. Altay. I was going to do the same thing, and you've translated my feelings, and thank you. Yes, Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0170par0218	I'd like to answer without bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0171par0219	Your children- our children are what, the children of Turkey, the children of the country. One side says our children, one side says you're children, who are you-our children? They're all our children, they're all our country's children.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0169par0220	Congressmans, look, Mr. Altay made a nice statement and urged all lawmakers to behave with common sense.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0171par0221	You've separated the children because they're ours, and you've made this country what it is. That's what you-we did to this country. They're all our children.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0169par0222	Of course they're all our children.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0172par0223	▪ Who doesn't say "kids," who doesn't say "kids"?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0173par0224	It's all ours, it's all ours, we don't have it, we-we don't accept it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0169par0225	And I promise you, Mr. Turan, one minute from your position. Mr. Kerestecioglu, I'll give you a moment of your time. Please don't put our children in politics, they're all our children. Mr. Turan, I promise you one minute from your position. Please...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0174par0229	You're making a mistake.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0175par0230	Don't get any stuff out of here.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0174par0231	You've already become material, what else will you become!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0175par0232	You're the stuff!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0176par0233	Congressmans, please!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0177par0235	Mr. President, dear friends, I agree with the call for common sense, but they're going to stand on the stand and they're going to do all kinds of lies, slanders, insults, and we're not going to answer, which is common sense, and when we answer, there's camp. We'll give them the answer, we'll answer them the way they deserve. Mr. President, if they say so, how did we make the children like this? They need to look in the mirror first. Instead of supporting mothers crying and grieving in front of the municipality because their children were kidnapped in the mountains in Diyarbakır, they said they were the work of MIT. They said, "It's the work of the state." They said, "They didn't have the children." They're all children. If they say don't go up against the children. If they say so, don't say "Oh." If they say so, that's what we say. But I think it's inappropriate if they're taking steps to raise children who are going to be used politically, and they're just looking for sensitivity from the opposite side. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0178par0238	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioğlu... I won't promise anyone else.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0179par0242	Mr. President, our Deputy Garo Paylan has told us how he's been targeted for two days and we're only taking pictures with hundreds of people.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0180par0243	He just told you that on the stand?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0179par0244	We don't think that any group vice president should like a picture of a party logo in this House equipped with bombs, which you probably think is because...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0181par0245	Look at your own tastes, then.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0179par0246	Look, there's still a group of vice presidents saying, "Look at your own taste." I mean, if we're really going to set an example here, or if we're going to take another path, we're going to have to do it together, and that's what our congressman meant. And finally, it's not humiliating to wear a skirt, but women wear skirts.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0182par0250	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0183par0251	We call him the man in the skirt, Mr. President. Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0179par0252	I want to finish this. Mr. President, you're a woman, and I just want to finish it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0184par0254	Congressmans, right now I have promised the members of the group a minute, and I have promised you a minute. Please... Thank you. That's what you say when you take another word for it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0185par0258	So for the record, I'd like to say that we condemn this sexist rhetoric, that all women in this parliament should condemn it, especially you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0184par0259	Thank you. 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Account for 2015 1) Competitiveness Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Central Management Account for 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Chairman of the IRS 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2015 1) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2015 Central Management Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] Members of parliament, the People's Democratic Party Group has ended its talks. Now, there will be talks on behalf of the National Party for Action. The first speaker will be Mr. Deniz Depboy from Aydın MP. The speakers of the National Movement Party have been speaking for 15 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0186par0297	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Movement Party Group to discuss the budget for the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. I salute the Holy Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. Before I begin my speech, I wish to express my condolences and patience to our heroic police officers and innocent citizens who were killed as a result of a traitorous terrorist attack in Istanbul on Saturday (December 10th). I curse all terrorist organizations who seek terror and the unity of our country and our nation. Again, the drama of Aleppo, which tolerates attacks on the murder of women, condemns those who ignore them, and I wish that the sufferings would end quickly. Dear lawmakers, the importance of the budget as a social contract is concerned about how public resources are collected and how they are spent. To view the budget as a document that shows only one year's income and expense projections and goals of the state, there will be a shortage of evaluations. Again, I would like to remind you of the need to consider budget and account talks as an auditing document that evaluates the government's one-year policies and practices, as well as what has been done so far. Because it will also give us insight into what's to be done in the future. I'd like to take a separate look at the work that falls under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Let's start with welfare. As far as we know, the GDP rate is 1.25 percent domestic. Unfortunately, the welfare and services system is not functioning in a healthy way. It is not possible to find the answer to who, under what circumstances, for how much, for how long will social welfare and social services be done in the system? The system organises aid, not as a right, but as a blessing. The standard for assistance is low. In addition to old age and poverty salaries, help is available only to those who are content with conditions, such as disability salaries. It is not possible to take advantage of the benefits, the rights, unless requested. We're looking at a vision that helps are more likely to be done according to the appreciation of political power. The system is available for pleasure and political use. The system is viewed by the AKP as a means of political rant, in which it is being exploited without prejudice. If we consider their responsibilities to the disabled, we see that the Ministry, as well as its special situation, has not been resolved. It is the duty of the state to improve the rights of disabled individuals, to ensure that they have equal opportunities, to ensure that the disabled develop in line with their abilities and potential, to ensure their economic and social well-being. We have a population of about 8.5 million disabled people, but their problems have not been resolved; they have many problems from employment to transport to health. These problems must be resolved, obstacles to our disabled citizens must be removed. Still, given their own abilities, they need to be employed, and empty quotas for disabled persons must be filled quickly. The work of martyr families and veterans is unfortunately inadequate and full of mistakes. It is our duty as states and nations to take care of our veterans and the trusts of our martyrs and to give them a level of life in society that is worthy of them, but in the resources and rights provided to our veterans and martyr families, there are many practices that make them victims and victims. There are significant differences between months and compensations for those who have been killed in the July 15 coup attempt and who have been fighting terrorism for years, who have been tied up for martyrs or invalids. It has hurt their hearts to distinguish between martyrs and veterans. It is not possible to accept discrimination among them. This error must be corrected, and it must be corrected immediately, and our martyrs and veterans must also benefit from the provision under the Law Order 667. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'll show you two photographs. This is a card given to a citizen who was a veteran on July 15th, under Code 675. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy... if only our Minister were here to see it, I'll tell him again. Look, it's written on it, it's a well-prepared card. Well, do you know what the card that was given to our gas with a different status 3713? The next of kin to the martyr, near the veteran, near the victim, near the maul. • Friends, valued lawmakers; this person, the veteran; this person, who has lost a limb, is injured in fighting terrorism, maybe he can't work, he has a troubled, troubled life, but that's what you get for yourself. Dear AKP MP friends -- if you leave your phones and look at a photograph like this -- I'm afraid you're being unfair -- between veterans and invalids, you're discriminated against among the martyrs. Our Korean and Cyprus veterans have questions that have been pending for years. According to Law 1005, the net minimum wage for those of our combat veterans who do not have social security is tied to 6503 indicators per month. It is unacceptable to differentiate the criteria of the veterans with the basis of a criteria other than the criteria for the monthly bonding of honorary pensions to their veterans. The salary of honor must be paid in the same amount, regardless of the income and employment of the veterans. Most of our veterans have not been awarded the State Medal of Honor. It was given to Korean veterans by Korea, but unfortunately it wasn't given to us by our government. In addition, combat veterans do not benefit from interest-free mortgages and other rights. The demand of the veterans for the medal must be eliminated and handed over the medals they will carry with honor and pride. Our veterans should also be able to take advantage of non-interested mortgages. In the fight against terrorism, veterans who have been severely injured and not considered disabled have no right to take advantage of any rights. They especially regret that they were not given the title of veteran. Because of their disability, our veterans, who suffer in the working environment, must receive the right to retire in 3600 days. Monthly ties to parents of martyrs and deceased veterans must be increased, not less than the net amount of minimum wage for each of them. All our martyr children should be given jobs. Veterans in the fight against terrorism must also benefit from the opportunity to buy non-supply vehicles for the families of the martyrs. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have more words for veterans. We can't pay the rights of our martyrs or the children left behind by the veterans, their families, their parents. But other than that, I'd like to talk about the work on women and children. I'm afraid there's a flaw in that, too. Family, you know, is the smallest cornerstone of society. If there's a problem with the family, it's a problem with the integrity of the state. When we look at it, there is an ASDEP project. This has been brought before us in every government program since the 61st government, but unfortunately there is no significant work done except pilot studies. Again, the family and social functions have not been eliminated. It's the economic problems that bother our families the most, it's the most, it's the ones that break up our families, it's the ones that break up, it's the ones that break up our families. And there's no significant work done to resolve economic problems. Again, the recent surge of suicides has left us worrying. Look, my own constituency, Aydın, has suicides almost every day of the week. I've submitted a written question motion to our Minister of Family and Social Policy, and I hope I get an answer. We have to stop our families from committing suicide. We're also also concerned about the increase in violence against women. Unfortunately, during your governments, violence against women has increased by 1,400 percent. In 2013, 237 women were killed in 2014, 294 in 2015, 303 in 2015 and 272 in 2016 -- by November. If you want the number of abuses, you can find it in statistics, I'll pass that, but there's also the visible side of women's violence, which is persistent pursuit, mobbing, again, psychological violence, economic violence... all of which needs to be seriously settled and studied. There is much to be done to improve the status of women in social life, and unfortunately, the work you do or claim to do is not enough to protect our women. We need a modern approach where equal opportunities for men and women are presented, respect for women is at the forefront, equal support for both men and women. As for our children, we have much to say for our children. Children's work and child abuse of all kinds continue, I'm afraid. Mr. Secretary, I would very much like for you to be on the Commission that we set up to prevent child abuse. You were supposed to be there; you weren't called or, I don't know, you couldn't, but I wish you were. In particular, there is much work to be done to prevent marriages under 18 years of age. TÜİK is studying, but unfortunately the statistics limit their work to the research of the 16-17-year-old group, but at a much earlier age, our children are getting married illegally, and we have knowledge of that. Again, there has been a serious increase in girls' schooling in the last ten years, but the important thing is not to get kids into school, but to keep them going. Schooling is good, but the rest is much more important. According to information presented by the Ministry of National Education, 174,625 students left elementary schools, elementary school, secondary school: Again, in 2014 this number was 234.932. Unfortunately, the Ministry of National Education doesn't give them sex, and the information that's been released doesn't say why they're leaving again. The Education Reform initiative has a study, in the 2014-2015 Education Watch Report: 38 per cent of children leave school in Turkey. Again, it's 39.9% for our girls and 39.9% for the girls. What does that mean? Of the 100 children, of the 10 girls, of the 10 children, he cannot keep his school, he has left his school, he has left his school. Thus, he is deprived of both the progressive processes of education and employment. Again, problems with access to basic services and poverty increase the child's possibility of child labor. How are our abandoned children from this school? We want to know if they're married, if they're employed as child laborers. During the 15-year AKP rule, the government has clearly failed to work on child rights, developed a national children's policy, neglected children. The national risk map must be created. It is important that children who are unable to attend school and their reasons be investigated, that early marriages be identified by field studies without the 16-17 age criteria, that all kinds of neglect and abuse be investigated within the family, and that the risk maps be created in order to determine the child labor force, but, please, do not continue to do so as the current department in your ministry does, because their work is not possible to get the wrong answers because it is our culture that they have. In the configuration of the work, the Turkish Association of Children and Ergen Psychiatrists, Turkey's PDR, Turkish Association of Psychologists, Social Pedes Association executives and academics need to be supported by the advisory board, and scientific qualifications for the work. They really -- I know from the Children's Inflicted Commission -- they do a lot of wrong polls, apps; the results are not right. What would happen if we took advantage of academics, associations? In this way, the validity of information and data offered by the work that will be done by a significant amount of material spiritual effort will be high. Again, we signed the United Nations Convention on Child Rights. Each individual under 18 years of age is a child, he says. Please, we need to adjust the Turkish Penal Code and Turkish Civil Law according to this -- the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights, because we have an obligation to obey it, because we signed it. I'd like your sensitivity in this matter. We, the National Movement Party Group, have proposed the necessary law in the Turkish Civil Law, the Turkish Penal Code, for the adoption of under 18 underage as children. I'd like your support on this matter. Again, however, it's impossible to express all these problems with our children here, time is not enough, time is running out. It's very important to establish a permanent child's rights commission. That's what we've offered the law on. We expect your support in this matter. I wish all our children, our women, our families, and especially our veterans, our martyrs and families, to be made decisions that can bring them to the best point by defending the rights of our disabled citizens. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0187par0327	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Haluk Ayhan will be the second to speak on behalf of Denizli MP. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0188par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised to present the views of the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Customs and Trade Ministry in 2017 and the Competitive Association in 2015 and the Final Account Bills in 2015. I hereby salute the grand jury. Of course, now, I wish the Minister were here, no. Our reviews -- I told you yesterday -- Mr. Secretary was a little touchy, but -- we said we're judging the defeat with his spirit, and we're going to look at it that way, but I want to make it very clear, Mr. Secretary, that it's not good. Indeed, this customs is the main element of trade policy, to ensure that trade is made easier, safer, but also fast and quality. Thus, it requires that the legal, administrative, physical, technical and financial capacity of the relevant institutions, which ensure our country's harmony with the changing conditions in the world's trade, be adapted to the developments in the world. Now, customs is essentially a component of foreign trade. AKP governments have linked the Ministry of Customs to domestic trade. It's not about creating institutional structure according to the job, it's about dividing institutions according to the minister, what to do with the structure according to it; it's about adapting. This is not the right approach. The ministry is founded by biatihi defo. Now, of course, we're talking about the general issues during these budget talks, but especially about the figures of the budget -- I mentioned something yesterday -- you have to say something. What are we going to say here? The initial budget for the Ministry's budget of 2016 increased by 37 per cent according to its start-up grant in 2015. That's a 37 percent increase, that's a big deal. But I didn't see any explanation for what he brought. According to 2016, the initial grant has increased by 75 per cent. We can't call it a conservative development. It is possible to describe this event as an unprovoked budget. There is nothing more in foreign trade than this budget for the tradesman and the COBI. This increase already shows that, if you take into account the inflation you predicted. The Competitive Association is 22 per cent less than its final spending in 2015, and the 2016 budget is 36 per cent higher than the 2015 spending. This budget shows no significant improvement in the institution's activity. I mean, there's nothing the institution can do to develop any serious activity. Is it possible to consider it a sitting institution? It's not that either. Now, according to us, customs have a lot of problem areas to improve. One is the waiting and financial loss of customs procedures; fuel, cigarettes and alcohol smuggling lack of control. In particular, Mr. Secretary, it's good that you're here as Minister of Finance, as a result of the increase in OTV, the measures against illegal and fraud must be brought into effect. Let people see that, and now I have a graph taken from the report. Its origins go from its factory to $1.00 a cigarette, and when you come to market, its sale range is between $5 and $8 a.m. Now, the origin of this factory, they say it's a dollar. Who's taking advantage of the other one? Trafficker networks, PKK, carriers, warehousers, retailers and consumers. It's possible to show the details of this, but as you push down the OTV from there, it's heading towards these smugglers. Here last year, Mr. Erkan, our Deputy Minister of the Group, in Redılay, illegal cigarettes are sold at this price. He said, "Maybe it was you, maybe it was the other minister." They said, "No." He came to me during the lunch break, and he left one there, as I recall. Now, when you look at this case, we see that the problems are increasing. For one thing, the Customs Department has been replaced, associated with foreign trade, unable to carry out enough of its duties as a smuggler. It's not just the Ministry's system, it's the general economic policies that you're implementing, it's coming from the increase in STV and so on. Now, in particular, if Mr. Secretary were here, there was something I would say, including the court report on the processing regime that put a lot of stuff in here. Indeed, I have trouble getting information from the Ministry of Economics about foreign trade, including the process regime. I want to know for sure about the Ministry of Customs, and I want to have a chat with the Minister, even the Court reports. What about 45 percent of exports involved in the processing regime? In some sectors, I told you yesterday, it's up to 70 percent. Nowhere in the world does that happen, it's not seen, it's a very troubled area. On the other hand, look, 5,012 investments, incentive documents, and the Ministry did not implement the legislation provisions for resuscitation. These things go on as a really problem area. Now, the tradesmen and the COBIs are in trouble. The AKP government has already not encouraged the president of the arts... to deal with the affairs of their colleagues, with their problems. Then you drove it into the field to make people's hearts grow soft against the PKK. Business has changed, but their problem isn't over, it's going on. Here's to the mall. Does it comfort you to convert the rents to TL? It's hard. The increase of malls fuels consumption, and you can't protect the tradesman against the mall. Within the city, malls increase the sale of imported goods beyond the damage it has done to the small tradesman. What measures are you trying to take? Do they have foreign currency contracts at the mall? I do. Who let you do that? AKP. Now, the currency contracts are collected, embezzled, broken with high discounts, 7-8 percent. What happens if the banks don't bring in foreign currency, foreign currency, foreign currency, money-sourcing, debt-related banks? He'll either go back to tourism or to the mall. That's how the system was built, that's how it turned. You're talking 53 billion dollars in investments. The mall investor got paid in advance. The tenants say there is no work. Their work is a complete disgrace, or it will come out. The problem is, the contracts will be renewed next month. Istanbul is at odds. Most of them rent them when they're 1.8, now they're 3.5 lira. He says I'm going to finance investment in 10-20 years. He says it's going to be 20 to 40 years now. He took the risk, he's gonna take it. It's going down. If you say it's going down, it's going down. I've spoken to the last presidents of the tenants, and he says: "In the world, the AVM rents are up to 15 per cent of the turnout, so we're up to 30 per cent." We can't handle this burden. What would you do if you were to expand and expand it? You were going to set up offices in places like market places -- a thousand businesses, etc. -- you were going to solve this problem. By the way -- Mr. Secretary, listen to this -- I've sat in front of my house for 15 years, God has given me green land -- one day I look at it and it's staked out. They sewed up the mall, from here to here. Now, I'll have a milk, bread; guests, newspapers; no, I can't. What do I do? I'll go a few miles, I'll pick it up. I prayed many times: O Lord, let a buffet be opened here, and I will take these. We either prayed at an appropriate time or we lost it, God forgive us. Is that even possible? There's the parking problem now, there's traffic trouble, there's all kinds of trouble. It's a disturbing environment. Is that even possible? Really, for example, Denizli is very good this way. Turkey is Europe's AVM champion as well as a square metre area for a thousand people. What do you say? Two hundred and forty-four square meters to a thousand people. Now, the retail share was 15 per cent in 1998, reaching 73 per cent in 2016. Now, over the last ten years, 1.3 million tradesmen have shut down their business because of the AVMs. After Denizli, Istanbul and Eskişehir, the third is the third. They've been court-martialed. The establishment has changed, its place is in, its place is out, the nation is in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's in. Now, there's a record pardon going on, and everyone's talking about it, but the experienced ministers aren't getting into it. They've tried this record pardon a few times, they've pumped it, but it's coming back. Yeah, these guys, the banks, they're a business business, and if you're bad-mouthing the tradesman, he's looking at his balance sheet and giving it away. Why did you put this tradesman in this state? Let's fix this. Can you fix it? You're not. When you were explaining these recent decisions, you, I saw, all of you passed -- former ministers -- who was left on top of it? He's on top of the Customs Minister. He's still working. The people who worked before him couldn't handle it anyway. Now, there's a lot of trouble there because they can't get up. This is a pardon, clean it up, and let's see if the banks give us a loan or not. Other than that, it's really the citizens who have been granted a record pardon. On the other hand, look, these troops and stuff, they can't keep up with the market anymore. The financial size of the business is beyond the power of the troops. Our farmers and farm rooms are very uncomfortable with it. The problem needs to be resolved as soon as possible. Prices go down in nuts, grapes, apricots, figs. According to the same period of last year, crustacean nuts dropped 2 liras per pound for $10, dry apricots dropped $3.00, raisins dropped another $1.70, for $3.80, dried figs dropped 50 cents to $6.5. I thought they were supposed to be garantists, support, co-operate with the private sector. And there's nothing you're doing about it. Now they're in trouble. And really, Mr. Secretary, let me ask you one of my notes when you're here: You increase customs taxes by 37 percent in 2017, you increase VAT (the VAT) from imports by 11 per cent, you increase other foreign trade taxes by 15.5 per cent. What dollar do you raise one with dry, and what dollar do you raise the other with dry? I checked the alibis, the alibis are the same. If there was a difference in motive, I'd say, what's the real reason, it's going to blow up somewhere, and this tax is going to go up. There has to be a reason for all of this. Now, this credit card instalment is seventy-two months, and you've done it for seventy-two months, so send a friend of yours, a friend of yours, a friend of yours, a friend of yours, to a bank branch, and let's see if it's been seventy-two months since the weird guru, poor poor beggar, this credit card payment, right? Got to take a look at this. Your work, your decision, must have consequences. So, you have to take care of these things. As for the Competition Foundation, I can't say he's working very well. What's added is that you've appointed senior coordinators who occupy three separate positions, who are alleged to have duties and powers at the level of a vice president and vice president. Some of them even got a thank-you note. They all left on July 15th. You have to be careful with these, too. You have to take a look. If that's true, if it's not true, if we're wrong, if we're lacking, please tell us. There's not enough time. I salute the High Council. And I wish you well in the budget. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0189par0354	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı will be the third to speak as Konya MP. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0190par0358	Mr. President, I've been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Ministry of Finance and the Chairman of the IRS. On this occasion, I salute you all. At the beginning of my words, I'd like to take this matter to our Finance Minister. The Tapu Kadastro General Directorate has applied for 1,500 people to operate in return capital. There is still a demand from the universities of applied sciences that the number of graduates will be distributed by taking into consideration the number of graduates given by betting that the highest graduates are in the real estate and real estate management department. I hope you'll consider it. Our country's economic problems have increased year-on-year because of the lack of reformal structural measures in the economy for a long time. In recent years, structural problems, injustices, and narrow throats have become even heavier. The farmers, the tradesmen, the industrialists, the households, and all parts of society are overwhelmed by heavy economic conditions and debt. Our nation can barely stand up to the resistance to increases in taxes and increase in taxes. I ask the government, how the whole world was jealous of us, and everyone was jealous of us? I thought we had three Turkeys in 14 years, back to the island of trust and stability. When will the Turkish nation find peace and prosperity? Turkey must quickly establish and implement a reform agenda in the field of economics. As the National Movement Party, we've been warning the government about structural reforms for years, and in our final election declaration, we've also seen important in the economy -- production, savings, investments, agriculture, revenue, spending and tax -- we said that reforms should be initiated quickly and decisively, but the government has always been insensitive. Finally, last week, Mr. Prime Minister announced measures to the economy, and spoke of scheduling structural reforms for 2017 and building structural reforms in areas such as tax, research-improvement, working life, education, health and justice throughout the year. The problems in Turkey's economy are heavy; there is no need to hide them, to hide them, and the problems in the economy concern all of us. Treating the fragile constitution of Turkey's economy is the only option in the future, all together, under the umbrella of sacrifice. The government must deepen its decisions and measures in order to strengthen Turkish lira. Our farmers demand it, and our farmers must be comforted. Our farmer, the harvester, has bought a tractor, so his debt is doubled today. The farmer is having a hard time. Our farmer owes him big time. It's overwhelmed by banks and loan sharks, and interest has become breathless at the bottom of credit. Our farmer's field, his garden, whatever he's got, is mortgaged. Our farmer's loans reached 68.5 billion liras as of September 2016. Farmers who are trapped in debt and who can't pay their debts, who wait in bank credit lines to meet their needs, have to sell tributes to the land where they earn their living by their sweat. Our farmers are desperate, waiting for a helping hand from their government. A measure package must be announced for our farmers immediately, and agricultural loans and electricity debts must be restructured, even without interest. Dear MPs, the tax burden on production and employment is heavy in Turkey. High levels of taxes, funds and so on are taken from the basic entries of production, such as electricity in the first place. It should be considered that reducing the tax burden on production will contribute positively to employment and growth and will eventually increase the total tax revenues provided by this section. Tax reform must be immediately brought up under structural reforms. In this framework, a fair tax system that everyone pays taxes according to their financial power must be established. The tax system must be restored to a dynamic structure that considers the country's economic, social and cultural structure. In AKP rule, the 6th amendment for the configuration of tax-received incomes has been made this year. The situation, in itself, has made it clear that things have not been good in the economy for years, that Turkey has not been well managed. In particular, implementation has been sustained by the laws that have been repeated to this side from 2008 and by the lengthy extension decisions of the Council of Ministers. Even configuration of the configuration brought in in 2014 has been organised before the deadline has expired. The Finance Minister, who explained that the tax amount was 77.6 billion dollars, used to have a bread line, now he has a debt payment line in the tax office, which makes us happy. This has been a simple and very shallow assessment. Mr. Finance Minister doesn't see or see the citizen's debt, why he can't pay his taxes, his high delay in tax debt. "We need to resolve the interest issue. I know my loneliness, but I will continue my struggle, I am determined." Unfortunately, the government leaves him alone in the first place. See, the current inflation rate is 7.7 per cent revalued, 3.83 per cent legal default interest rate is 9.5% commercial default interest rate is 10.5 per cent, the compound interest rate is 10.6 per cent, and the average average interest rate for bank loans is 14.7%. In contrast, the government's tax delay increase is 16.80 per cent; the default interest rate is 12 per cent. The government has been using interest as a loan shark, ignoring the President's calls and has not dropped the rates since October 2010. The delay increase is not a punishment for the taxation technique, but is intended to protect the amme from inflation and ensure that it is paid in time. Both the delay increase and the default interest rates are high enough to be called exorbitant, given today's economic conditions. The rate of delays, which are more than twice the amount of inflation, affects anyone who can't pay his taxes on time, who can't pay their taxes, and folds their tax debts and reduces the ability of the administration's collection, taxpayers to pay. The government is not in charge of auditing banks. Banks charge high interest on credit cards and credit-related deposit accounts. Bank loans exceed 24 per cent per year, and delay interest exceeds 30 per cent. When the fees and commissions are added to the interest, there is a terrible picture. So, what's the BDDK doing? What's the government doing? He's watching. See, in the 10th month of 2016, bank fees and commissions from loans reached $5.8 billion, banking service revenues called "file money" reached 18.9 billion. The total interest-free income of banks is $42.1 billion in 2015 and $38.4 billion in ten months of 2016. The banks give tickets to anyone who wants to pay an early loan, they want a lot of money. A desperate citizen who borrows and borrows a loan is being robbed of,,commission,, paper money. So, what's the BDDK doing? What's the government doing? He's watching. Mr. President has every right to reproach. The president says, either the government doesn't understand, or it doesn't listen, or it thinks it's going to fall when it says to interest. He doesn't do anything. Again, "Real investors are not the ones who make the most money in Turkey. The ones who make the most money are the ones in the financial sector." He said, so he highlighted a fact. Yeah, it's the financial sector that's growing the most in our country. It's the financial sector that's making the most profit in our country. This year, 18 banks were among the top 10 on the list of institutional tax holders, including 7, the first 100. The financial sector's ten-month net profit in 2016 is 32 billion euros, while the real sector is having a difficult time, when businesses are going bankrupt, has increased by up to 23 per cent of the annual net profit in 2015 in 10 months. Our people work in banks day and night, transferring their hard work, their sweat, their income, their earnings to banks as interest. The AKP's ruling interest lobby has been turned over. The interest lobby feeds on AKP economic policies. In fact, that is the essence and summary of the AKP's 14-year work. Dear lawmakers, the problems of financial workers who have served in the collection of taxes and at every level of the budget have not been resolved for years. Finance workers also want reconstruction and justice for themselves. The lack of personnel in the IRS is extremely high. Since the staff is not assigned, the workload of the workers has become too much to bear. The staff needs to be dealt with immediately, making the employees' workload normal and equal. The extra work of the staff must also be paid as a fee. The Act of State Officers No. 657 must be formed by the class of financial services, providing an application union between income and expense administrations. The job descriptions of the staff must not be redacted and operated off-duty. Mr. Secretary, on the question I raised in the Commission, the central and rural expertise will continue. You said we have no study called the examination of income experts. Despite your firm attitude, we will continue to address it as the National Movement Party. It is one of the basic principles of Law 657 to provide public officials with the ability to advance to the highest levels of their class in accordance with the necessary information and conditions for their services. On February 18, 2012, the President of the IRS opened an internal income expertise exam. The IRS expects an estimated 5,000 employees' right to a test. The Chairman of the IRS is receiving an assistant expert, but he does not submit to an upgrade exam. There is a significant amount of pay difference among employees who do the same work, who have the same responsibilities, and who are at the same level, and that difference continues to increase. This affects working peace in a negative way, causing unrest among the staff. With an internal income expertise special exam to open, institutional workers will be able to improve themselves. The added value should not be overlooked. Another issue was victimised by 119 assistant tax inspectors during the 2014 qualifying exam held by the Chairman of the Tax Control Board. Despite the irregularity of the exam, the Court of State and Administration's decisions have been brought forward, the verdict has not been carried out for a year. The victims of the tax inspector's assistants in question must be removed and they must also be investigated for the examination. Dear MPs, the secret heroes of the configuration are accountants and financial advisors. In addition to all the tasks entrusted to the establishment of a regular accounting and audit system, the responsibility of accountants and financial advisors is constantly increasing and the workloads are increasing day by day. For years, there has been no valid solution to the problem of collecting the biggest problem of this profession, accounting fees from the taxpayers. It is a necessity for the future of the profession to eliminate primary issues such as unfair competition, jurisdiction, collection. Financial advisors have to pay the added value tax, as they can't receive their fees. Because of their added value tax, they seem to be in constant debt from the IRS. The VAT must be reduced to 8 per cent in free trade activities, and the event that gives birth to VAT will be tied to the collection. The price tariff must be converted into a time-indicted price tariff, and it must be rearranged to cover independent control fees. Occupational workers should be given a discount of wear and tear. Contracts made by professionals must be excluded from the stamp tax. Computer and software costs should be paid within two years. Freelance costs must be redesigned. Interns must have an exception for the fee. I wish that the budgets of our Ministry of Finance and the President of the IRS would be a blessing, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0191par0384	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İstanbul MP Ismail Faruk Aksu will speak last. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0192par0388	Mr. President, I've been sworn in by the Nationalist Action Party Group on the budgetary budgetary budgetary bill of 2017; on the budgets of the Privatisation Administration of the Constitution, Public Contraction Agency, Public Protection, Accounting and Control Standards Association. I salute the General Assembly and our humble citizens who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. Dear MPs, no matter how great the military victories may be, the victory will not survive if they are not crowned with economic victories, after the invasion of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic. The promise of our future and future is how important the economy is to our future. The main goal of economic policy, which dominated the early years of our Republic, was the establishment of a strong domestic economy. Due to the fact that the private sector's capital buildup is at a level that is inexhaustible, many industrial facilities have only been established by the state, and the engine of state development and economic growth has been the engine of state development and economic growth. As a matter of fact, during the short time following the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, many factories, banks, institutions and organizations have been enabled to grow rapidly and sit on solid foundations. The government's weight in the economy continued until recently, when it felt the impact of neoliberal currents and globalization. In the 1980s, the privatisation movement that began in Western countries took effect in our country after 1994 and began the process of privatisation of public enterprises built by the sweat of our beloved nation. In privatisation practices, the main goal is for public enterprises to be distributed to the bottom of capital by selling through public supply in capital markets. However, in Turkey's privatisations, especially after 2003, the method of bloc sales has been intensively used, which only results in the transfer of public assets to large individuals and companies and does not allow new jobs to take place. In the last 14 years of privatisation, the total share of bloc sales has been 52.4 per cent; the ratio of facilities and assets sales has been 29.5 per cent. Sales made via public supply have reached 14.3 per cent in total sales, and market sales have remained at only 1.9 per cent. This means that public resources do not spread through privatisations, but the national savings are transferred to large-scale private capital groups. This table clearly reveals that privatisation has been deflected from its original goal. Privatisations that don't allow the capital to spread to the bottom also prevent a competitive free market, as well as a monopoly on multinational foreign companies operating globally with large capital. The most important benefit expected from privatisations based on the philosophy of the competitive private sector better than the public sector is to increase production and employment and make the institutions more efficient. But we know that many companies have been shut down after the privatisation, that the production has not been continued, that they have been used outside the workspace for different purposes, that their assets, land and other properties have been sold. The closure of many privatised facilities has been a key factor in the disposal of public resources, as well as increasing unemployment and migration to major cities. Perpetual measures have not been taken to resolve the unemployment problem, which is due to the wrong privatisation policy. Many markets have been distorted, markets have either been left to private monopolyes or are dependent on the outside. Privatisations in critical sectors have not considered national, strategic preferences and priorities. No measures have been taken for the establishment of competition and protection of consumers in privatisation of monopolies. In particular, rural development has been ignored in agricultural privatisation and the situation of our farmers has not been considered. As a matter of fact, Mr. Prime Minister's statement, the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian District Attraction Centres Programme has made it clear that the privatisation of agricultural privatisations has been wrong; our criticisms over the years have been justified. On September 20, 2016, Mr. President-General Bahçeli announced the National Movement Party's Development Programme for the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian Region (East and Southeast Anatolian Region) is a modern-day development of agricultural-integration and rural development and a key element of our party's rural development policy for many years. The programme is a programme that will be felt by our citizens in the region by the tender and powerful hand of the state, that will end the siege of the PKK, that will ensure full access to public services, that will ultimately ensure economic growth, social development, social reconciliation, and national unity. Dear lawmakers are the basic criteria for privatisations and other public tenders, the protection of our national resources, the care of the right to an orphan and the benefit of the public. Therefore, the transactions must be evaluated in terms of the understanding of fighting corruption. Privatisation practices and public tenders during the AKP period have, unfortunately, been an important area of public corruption, corruption and irregularities developed in the political-business-burocratic triangle. Privatisations can be meaningful in an approach based on national interests, where our nation's sweats are saintly, which is unregistered and unregistered. However, some practices in recent years have shown that behind the steps taken to privatisation, there is an infrastructure created by private relations. In 2005, Avea, worth $6.5 billion, was sold for two years' profits as a block, along with the sale of more than $1 billion in profits and more than $1 billion in corporate taxes. Furthermore, the tax rate of institutions has been reduced by 10 points and the tax advantage of around 4 billion dollars has been reduced to the public's tax rate. Public banks were used to sell some of the companies found in the TMSF portfolio. About 15 per cent of TIPRAS is sold overnight, while the administrative court has cancelled the sale, the buyer has earned about $500m in a few months. The changes made in the deed law and the Capital Market Act have also been ignored by the national security and strategic priorities of our country, with an approach that is not based on any conditions. In privatisations, a structure based on a sound legal basis for content and which eliminates abuses has been chosen, based on personal relations based on legal gaps, special legal regulations and abolition of administrative authority. The state's privileges and assets have changed hands in favour of foreigners, and the principles of privatisation, such as transparency, public interest and justice, have not been taken into account. During 1985-2016, Turkey privatised totalling $67.5 billion. The $59.4 billion, or 88 per cent, was carried out during the AKP period. Although our Republic's gains have been privatised for about $60 billion, the investments of the Turkish nation's low-conceived savings have been sold, our external debt, which is $129.5 billion in 2002, has increased to $421.4 billion, as of the second quarter of 2016. Although the President of the Privatisation Administration has a large institutional structure and also significant human resources, the practice shows that the institution has its primary role through consulting firms. If business can be done with consulting companies, there is no need for such a large institutional structure. This matter of counsel also attracted the court's attention. The Court has also determined that the provisions which can be extended by reaching agreements, if it is not possible to be completed during the contract period, can be extended by entity agreements. Again, the Court has stated in its report that some of the subsidiaries that have been transferred to public administration under the decision of the Privatisation Supreme Council are being used outside the scope of the purpose, and the way these assets are used is not controlled by the administration. Of course, these findings prove that the public has been harmed, and those responsible must be identified immediately. One goal of inspection is to contribute to the development of management. Therefore, the audit results must be taken seriously by the government. According to us, privatisation should aim to establish competition in the economy, to reduce the burden on public finance, to effectively use resources, to ensure production and employment increase, technology transfer and export capacity. Primarily, the privatisation method must be implemented through the IPO, the distribution of capital to the base, the production must continue under international competition conditions. Government monopoly must be replaced by private sector monopoly and ensure competitive markets. The principle of transparency should be fully implemented in the process, and no practice that will disturb the public conscience should be allowed. Dear lawmakers, one of the structural reforms conducted in our recent history is in the public tender area. A crucial step has been taken in this area, such as banking, fiscal discipline, social security reforms during the 57th Reich. Turkey's public tender system aims to eliminate elements that lay the groundwork for corruption through the Public Contracts Act and the Law on Public Contracts, an important part of the anti-corruption system. However, by the AKP governments, open areas of abuse have been created by changes in the tender legislation and then zoning legislation. In 2003, the rate of open tenders was 82 per cent and the rate of public purchases made by negotiating was 17 per cent, while in 2015, the rate of open tenders dropped to 73 per cent, and the rate of purchases made by negotiation has increased to 26 per cent. In this period, direct procurement has increased by eightfold. A direct procurement of public purchases, rather than general tender procedures, and the exception of certain institutions and organisations from the law, creates an environment open to corruption and irregularities, bringing allegations of corruption. In order to fight corruption effectively, legal, administrative and institutional deficiencies that set the stage for this need to be met, brought in deterrent measures, created an effective control mechanism, and developed the quality of human power. Uncontrollably exceptions must be terminated immediately, and all investors should be covered by law. However, in the right and complete execution of services, control is indispensable. According to public tenders, only 2.2 per cent of the tenders were audited in 2015. The tender process will not be known what is missing or wrong in tenders without inspection, nor will it be possible to improve. The Public Contraction Agency is not active in preventing and developing negative interventions to the tender system. The institution is unable to act in the independence of action, it cannot maintain a government that serves its purpose. Dear lawmakers, the depth and complexity of financial markets and economic structures have increased the importance of reliable information, making financial information obligatory to be internationally affordable. In the open financial markets for speculation, especially protecting and securing the rights of small investors, it is imperative that necessary measures be taken through institutions in this area. In this regard, the Agency for Public Surveillance Accounting and Control Standards must ensure an independent guarantee in measuring financial information. The agency's consultation with the sector's interests while it fulfills its duties will increase participation and will relieve public concerns about it. As I finish my discussion with these ideas, I wish the institutions' budgets of 2017 to be good, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit04spe0193par0413	Thank you. This concludes the group talks of the National Movement Party. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0193par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 40th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission is in place, the government is in place. We will now hear the talks on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet will speak first. Here you are, Mr. Tiger Liberty. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0194par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Before I begin my speech, I wish once again God's mercy to our citizens and to our policemen who were killed in the explosion in Beşiktas, Istanbul, and to our wounded. If somewhere there is a child who is hungry for science, democracy, peace, light, waiting for your light, you have no right to go out, you have to light up, even if there are seconds left to die. Here are those words and dear Turkan Saylan, who devoted his life to the war of ignorance, continues to light up the lives of thousands of children by light. I'd like to remember him from here once again with gratitude. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, since the AKP named the woman after the Ministry in 2011 not only as a name but as a whole, instead of implementing policies for strengthening women, policies that are supposed to strengthen the family have begun to be imposed, but demeaning the woman in the family. In exchange for words such as zero tolerance for violence for women, unfortunately, violence is the only thing that has been tolerated. In 2016, 236 women were murdered in 11 months, 368 cases of sexual abuse against children were reported to the media. In November, 35 women became violent in 30 days. Now women are slaughtered with family members. Like Tuğba in Gaziantep, who was last murdered with eight family members. What if, in the last ten years, the number of cases involving child abuse has increased by three times as many in Turkey as we have in the past ten years? According to TÜİK data, 482,908 girls have been married in the last ten years. In 2015, 17,000 girls gave birth. It's your mindset that you put in front of us in the middle of the night, which paves the way for children's marriages, and purifies rape. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, you didn't even speak up as Minister of the Family, but I'm looking, unfortunately, the Minister of the Family is not here, and I'm afraid there's been no word from the Women's Opportunity Equivalence Commission, which is a commission for this House. Even worse, on the day UNICEF condemned us for this motion, there were members abroad who defended this motion, who were propaganda. Regarding the four-month-old pregnant woman's exercise in Manisa, we've been relieved, we've been involved, and we're going to do what's necessary for this person to get the most severe punishment. It shows us that there are reasons why he thinks that there can't be a real punishment without even being involved, that some things can be covered up. I want you to know that while the lives of our women who have been exploited and kicked for wearing shorts, the lives of our colored worlds, the lives of our children blackened by harassment and rape, in the case of the Ensar Foundation, we're on the same page as the Ministry's foundation lawyers, we're on the same page. We see that 20 billion dollars of the ministry's 2017 budget is earmarked for welfare spending. However, the National Directorate of the Women's Status was divided into only 3 per cent of the overall budget. Unfortunately, this is not a budget for development of ▪politica, which is named after the Ministry. Protecting women and children, however, is a universal case. The government has shown once again how much it cares about this issue through budget distribution. On December 3rd, the Autism Action Plan was adopted, various statements were made, but it was three years too late for this plan. The same plan was announced three years ago, but now, again, you're warming up the same plan and putting it in front of us. We're looking at the budget, and I'm afraid there's another budget for autism, dear friends. In their status, intellectuals with the ability to manipulate perceptions are unfortunately not equal in terms of their male-female body. It's immoral to laugh in public. It is not appropriate for a pregnant woman to walk the streets. She speaks in public, such as she does, and unfortunately, it reflects violence on her life. In addition, such rhetoric normalizes inequality and prevents women from participating in public life. In this scope, I want to talk about a book that you, AKP municipality, Kütahya Municipality, have distributed to newly married couples: Do you know what marriage and Family Life are talking about? I apologize very much for how a woman should work and work and bless the sexual fantasies of a man, but this is the book that you have distributed -- unfortunately it's the shepherd of the male family, who says that she should be treated like a sheep. It's called immoral and unconscionable. The more I read it, the more it gave me goose bumps.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0195par0021	Show me the book.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0194par0022	You know what it says? If I read the details, you'd all blush like tomatoes. I just want to talk about your headlines. This book talks about wedding night details. It contains words that say, "Take the lovely women who give birth to children and give birth to children... "and be virgins, "because they are not allowed to go out of wedlock, "obligatory to the husband, "and the husband doesn't go out, "and the husband doesn't go out, "and when the husband beats her up, they wear fancy clothes, and the wife takes coffee to her husband, and they give birth to her husband." According to this book, a woman should not complain much, but be skilled at serving her husband. The woman who does not do the work of a woman when her husband desires it is sinful and sinful, says your book. I have to say this from here, and I'm very sorry. ▪ A man must be jealous, he says. When she disobeys, she talks about the custodians. One of the reasons is to beat her up. Do you know where women can be beaten? A woman who rebeles against a man's leadership can be beaten. A woman can be beaten if her husband doesn't dress up when she wants to. The woman who doesn't want to satisfy her husband's sexual desires -- I apologize very much, but I have to -- can be beaten. Sometimes a beating or two works, reminds the woman of the judge of the house, like medicine, he says. You're praising shelters, and unfortunately, it says: "For women who run away from home, municipal and feminist associations also open Swedish-model shelters." ▪ It is useless for a woman to work. If the woman enters her working life, she cannot perform her sexual duty to her husband. He even says: "One of the two women must be harassed at work, so let him break his leg and sit at home," he says. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What's he saying? What's he saying? If I read this book to you, none of you would look at each other in the face.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0196par0029	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0194par0030	It's a book with complete immorality, complete deviant thinking, and I'm here to address the Minister and you, the esteemed lawmakers, you'll have to start processing your municipality. Otherwise, when you talk about violence against her, I'm gonna throw this book in front of you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0196par0031	Thank you, Mr. Tiger Liberty.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0194par0032	When you talk about children's marriages, I'm going to put this book in your eyes, so you know that. We, the Republican People's Party, will follow this case, for your information. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0196par0035	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan Liberty, I haven't seen the book you're talking about, and if it's really true, it's disturbing.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0197par0038	Give it to the president.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0198par0039	Give it to the president.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0196par0040	Congressmans, wait a minute, I'm saying something. I propose we follow this together. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0199par0043	Exactly.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0196par0044	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Tekirdağ MP Candan Yüceer will speak second. Here you go, Mr. Supreme.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0200par0047	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin by asking God's mercy and urgent healing for the wounded to our citizens who died in the traitorous terrorist attack in Istanbul. I have made a pledge on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act, Ministry of Family and Social Policy. I salute your grand delegation and our dear citizens who are watching us on the screens. I think it's a good idea to make a quick reminder. There is no Minister, and the General Assembly is now empty, and the Minister's seat is empty, but we have to keep talking about it. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which we're talking about in its budget, is a ministry established by decree in 2011. Although women make up most of their responsibilities and problems, it is a ministry without a woman's name. It's a tenant ministry with about a million rents per month in its service. So it's not a law or a building or a ministry called a woman. Of course, this is the Minister's first budget, and I'd like to say good luck first, Mr. Secretary. But I'd like to pass along a website. After the 65th government was established, Mr. Minister's first statement to the General Assembly was to die like a man, to defend the word of the President with a heated defense of the dying like Madame. We know that with his power, with his opposition, all groups in Parliament make positive distinctions with the Ministry of Family and Social Policy; they put the Minister in a separate position within the male sovereign cabinet; they want to believe that he is struggling with sincerity and contributing to solving problems in this area. The public, Parliament, and especially the women of this country's women expect from Mr. Minister not to take the segregation statements, but to defend women's rights. In relation to the violence of a woman who was attacked because of her shorts, who was attacked by a woman in shorts, she can growl at the word of her attacker, no, she can dress as she pleases, women are free to choose, and no one can hum, nor can grunt, nor can she attack. The expectation was to prevent the pregnant woman from having to make an explanation. The shame of a victim of violence is that a woman feels compelled to make such a statement is your own. When 11 girls are being slaughtered in Aladağ, it is not by saying that our pain is too great, just by conciliating. The expectation is, before these lives are lost, before it's too late, we're entrusting these children to the wrong hands, so let's make this mistake go away. This responsibility belongs to us. The expectation is that children who were forced to marry as children, abused, taken care of the streets, drugs, working life. Dear lawmakers, who discriminate between our veterans by ignoring the criteria for serving the country, by applying different degrees of honor, not counting our veterans as under 60 per cent, who discriminate between our martyrs and veterans, I ask, whose power is it? You separate the living, separate the dead, and it's time for martyrs and veterans? All our veterans and martyrs are the ones who risk their lives with the same courage, with the same sacrifice for the country, for the nation. You can't tell them apart today, that day, that place, that martyr, that vet. Still, unfortunately, in public spaces, education, urban planning, the disabled are ignored. If we can't offer the disabled a life that is worthy of human dignity, if we can't provide them with the conditions to participate in their working life, if we've reduced the concept of the social state to charity, it's not a social state and it can't provide social justice. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The state that has not lifted its obstacles to projecting the will of our disabled citizens into the chest, I ask you, whose power is this? I swear, I don't know who's in power, but I also know that the people don't have power. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Honorable MPs have been killed in May, 22 in June, 15 in June, 17 in July, 33 in August, 35 in September, 35 in October, 28 in November. Mr. Secretary, since he sat in that chair, 185 women have been taken from life at a young age. In Turkey, where only 10 per cent of child abuse took place in judicial authorities, 23rd in August, 15th in September, 29th in October, 100 children were abused in November. These are not just numbers, they all had names, lives and dreams. If these are not numbers, if they are lives, then budgets, public budgets are not just numbers; each pen shows the policies, preferences, goals, what you value, what you don't care about. The budget for her status is, unfortunately, the minimum budget. Of course, it's not a coincidence, it's a reflection of a mindset. If we're still making policies to strengthen the family, if we continue to see her as fragile, weak, powerless, and describe her in the family, unfortunately, that's what's going to happen, and the power sees her as an ornament of the house and distances her from working life. You're making women poor, you're making society poor, and then you're bragging about the 1.4 billion-dollar social aid increased to 35 billion in 2016. In fact, it's a confession of how widespread poverty has become and how permanent it has become. Finally, there is a word by Victor Hugo, which clearly makes the difference between us, that you want the poor who have been helped, and we want the poverty that has been eliminated. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0201par0062	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Cetin Osman Budak will speak third on behalf of Antalya MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Budak, nine minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0202par0066	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 2017 budget of the Ministry of Customs and Trade. I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to honor the martyrs of Beşiktas on December 10th. We sent our young saplings, 20 years old, 22 years old, 18 years old, our seedlings into the ground with an incredible explosion and a dirty terrorist organization, to the ground at a young age, and I look at it this way: after June 7th -- you can go to June 5th -- the number of bombs is 24. The number of young plants lost here has also risen to 424, and it's such a big wound; we've given nearly 800 martyrs at the same time and again, after June 7th; they've all come west. I wish them all God's mercy from here. Now, you'll appreciate how difficult it is to talk about economics in such chaos, but in fact, at the very beginning of all problems, I would like to point out that you have very serious problems with economics and poverty. They're all connected. If the economy is badly managed, then in the end, most people who live on the edge of hunger, on the edge of poverty, can't find anything to do with it; they're either going to commit suicide or they're going up the mountain. So I'd like you to take a good look at the numbers I'm going to say here, especially about the economy. Now, recently it has been said that after July 15th, all the foundations of our economy are extremely solid. That's what they call currency figures, economic figures. At that time, the dollar was 2.90, and now, today, he has seen 3,50-3,60. So, which one is it? The foundations of the economy were sound. Our ministers were the ones who made the statement today, again, the ministers who told us that the numbers should be at this level at the point where the economy is coming today. Which one is it? Is this economy being managed correctly? Now, about the tradesman, I'd like to say that the package opens from behind. What is it? First said, it's a 30,000-dollar interest-free loan related to the trade, which is also in its own election declarations. I want to make it clear here that there are nearly 2 million tradesmen, my friends. Only about 2 million tradesmen have taken advantage of this loan, and it is necessary to add to 48 thousand people: those who have just opened their company, the risk, the ones whose record has not been damaged in any way. Who are they? We've looked at these, too. These appear to be supporters who have started a new company; 48,000 people are the only ones and these are the ones who are benefiting from $30,000. Well, one more thing: a fellow member of the Justice and Development Party -- here -- is the President of TESKOMB, and from three institutions; he's getting paid from Mamak. He's from Ankara Province and TESKOMB. That's what our President-General said, that's what he expressed in the group. I made a question motion, we asked for a number. We're reaching a number of 70-75 thousand liras, but unfortunately, the question motion hasn't been answered. Look, guys, now, our congressman friend is getting paid here, and he's retired, and he's getting paid there. Traders and Artists head the Credit and Bail Co-operatives, where we have a smiling friend, who listens to me with a smile. Now, think of the tradesman. As the tradesman goes to the bail co-op, can I get a loan or not? Even though he thinks it's a big problem, I'm afraid that's what's happening. I wonder how you distribute justice here. There are over 2 million tradesmen at the door here, and you've loaned 48,000 people. Look, the statement is made, Mr. Minister, that this loan statement is being made on December 16th, friends, and on December 16th, we release this zero interest loan. But there's a clause there, there shouldn't be a loan before December 1st. You say. But the entire tradesman has a loan debt, all of it. The shopkeeper took out a loan from his credit co-ops or took out a loan from the bank. Well, that's it, he's up to his neck in debt. Is it possible that this tradesman could get a loan from his business loan co-ops? Well, then, you'll have to fast-track the record. In fact, with this last package... you have one last package, the zero interest loan, the 50 thousand-dollar loan with zero interest, but the tradesman's record is broken. It goes to the bank, the door goes to the wall, the loan goes to the bail co-op, the door goes to the wall. So how's he gonna get a loan? I mean, he got to the point where a cabbie called the other day, and he told me about his situation. I have a taxi, rent is my home. I went to the credit bail co-op, and I asked for a loan because the banks won't give it to me, and you don't pay it, they say your check bounced. I went to the bail co-op, and he asked me for collateral, so he asked me for mortgages, bail. I don't have an E; what can I give you? So I expect an approach from you about what I'm going to do. Well, we have nothing to say, we're not in power, we're in power. You're the one who's been running Turkey for 14 years; you're the one who's going to answer there, you're the one who's got the mechanisms. He said: "My last resort, I will take the car, I will burn the car with me, in the square of Aveneli. How is there justice in this? Where's the development in that, fellas? The Justice and Development Party is here. You've been running the country for 14 years. Look, guys, I'm here now -- I'll tell you fast, I'm out of time -- the COBIs, the tradesman's in debt, and I'm basing this on: unrequited checks and protestive bonds are at the worst rate since 2009. The protested bond amount was 7.9 billion in January 2015, 9.6 billion this year. The unrequited check went up to 24.6 billion dollars in January-November 2015, to $25.5 billion this year. The debt, followed by October 2016, rose to 20.5 billion, followed by 323,725, followed by 5.2 billion in debt, while the loan rate increased from 3.1 per cent to 5 per cent. Now, dear friends, this is the painting. This painting didn't happen today. Look, the seven law proposals on the AVM matter have been sealed before the prime minister of the period, seven of which have been removed. Here, I'll give you an example from Farabi. Chain markets... there are three chain markets in a 500-metre-long street, a chain to the right of the buffet, a chain store to the left of the grocery store, choking the man. Now we're talking about the tradesman's unemployment. We told you to bring the Esnafa unemployment insurance, and I hope you will, and Mr. Secretary is here. A lot of problems. There's only a short, fifty-one seconds left. Only when our Minister of Finance is here, in the 2014 pardon -- which is six, seven, 67 billion -- the total debt of citizens, including tax of 67 billion dollars, $32 billion in RSK bonuses -- is 99 billion, sir; the new amnesty law is being passed in August 2016 -- Mr. Minister's official statement -- 90 billion of taxes, 67.7.7% of them are RSK bonuses. What are the consequences of forgiveness? The 77.6 billion lira debt was constructed, and about half of it was made up of $46 billion, which is 51 per cent of the tax on $90 billion. If -- if there had already been six tax pardons -- the tradesman, the merchant, the business world had been fine, what you're doing -- it's very true -- everyone would have gone running to the configuration, but now that half of them haven't been there, the other half can't even bring home the bread. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The current half has barely been structured, so there's no telling how he'll pay those installments. I thank you all very much, very much.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0203par0082	Thank you, Mr. Budak, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0204par0083	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0203par0084	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0204par0085	He called me by my name, made a false statement, and I'd like to answer for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0205par0086	I didn't give you a name, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0203par0087	About you?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0204par0088	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0203par0089	You want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0204par0090	Don't be coy, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0206par0091	He wants to fix it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0207par0092	He wants to make amends, Mr. President. You can give him 60, he hasn't made an insult.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0208par0093	Congressman, if you're going to make a statement, you're going to have to do it at your place.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0209par0094	No, sir. So he smiled, pointed at me.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0208par0095	Please explain yourself for a moment. Your name didn't come up, so...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0210par0096	The president of TESKOMB said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0209par0097	Mr. President, he said I was smiling here, and he pointed at me, gave me false information.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0210par0098	The president of TESKOMB receives a salary, the MP receives a salary.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0211par0100	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0209par0101	He gave false information about me.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0211par0102	Did he say your name?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0209par0103	He pointed at me, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0211par0104	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0209par0107	Mr. President, dear friends, of course, if my dear friend had talked to me about this earlier, he wouldn't have given the president false information. I've been talking to Mr. Engin Bey about this a lot. All the friends in you do, too. If you want to know anything about my salaries... a friend of yours was sitting here last year, MP, 3 years as a member of parliament, Mehmet Ali Sesam, İzmir MP. I'm taking what he's taking. He was a congressman here when he was president. But as for the other loans... my salary is set by 1,300,000 people, on the general boards. And his name... not so much, but what you're saying is wrong. I didn't go out and say that my general president said that I didn't do a polemic thing, I didn't do it anywhere -- and I didn't tell our group president -- I didn't do it. But the tradesman... the total money for the $30,000 loan was $1.5 billion and it all fell apart. If you're talking about who did you give it to? There are 100 co-operative presidents from the Republican People's Party, and one is our Buca Co-operative President, your MP; ask him who he's giving it to, and we've given it to them. First of all, we're not the lender. How do I know which party's coming from across the street? We've given loans to 1 million,100,000 people in ten years. Thanks to us, the tradesman really had his best days. Look, our last loan is $20 billion, so 20 quadrillion liras. Do you know what 20 quadrillion liras is, Congressman? Turkey budget for 2000.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0212par0109	You didn't tell me the total salary.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0209par0110	Today we're just giving it to the shopkeeper, believe me.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0212par0111	He said you were paid $75,000, is that right?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0209par0112	I said it was a lie.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0213par0113	Is your shopkeeper different from ours?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0212par0114	Tell me how much you're getting.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0209par0115	I told them it wasn't. I told you what your congressman gets.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0214par0116	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0215par0117	Mehmet Ali gets what Sesame takes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0216par0118	He's not taking it, Sesame. We're wondering how much you've taken.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0215par0120	He's got three semesters. He says he won't take it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0217par0121	Is your shop different? Ours went down, yours went down?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0218par0122	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0219par0123	That's why I'm chosen by 1 million,100,000 people. One million, one hundred thousand people adopted... Yes, my respects, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0218par0126	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0220par0127	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0218par0128	Mr. Budak...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0220par0129	Sir, I need to make a statement here alone. And your MP said... "There's a tease here, there's no friends, but I'm the one who brought it up, I want to tell you about it."
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0218par0130	Now, lawmakers have mentioned the name of a Republican People's Party MP, but have said nothing offensive.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0220par0131	Sir, by pointing out to me and to me...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0218par0132	If he did, your group vice president will answer that.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0220par0133	Sir, you gave your word, you said your place.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0218par0134	Mr. Budak, I'd like to take your name...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0220par0135	He looked at me and said: "I don't get such a number. " He asked my friends, and they didn't mean the number. I mean, he said I was lying, so I'd like two minutes of my say-so.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0218par0136	He didn't claim you were lying, he just mentioned his condition.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0220par0137	Sir, how else do you say it? That's polite.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0218par0138	But, Mr. Budak... Come in, please, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0220par0142	Sir, now, what I'm saying is clear, understandable. One million, 507,000, if I'm not mistaken, the last number you've given to 48 thousand people that are registered in tradesmen's loan co-ops or shop rooms, that's the first one. In your election declaration, you once told all tradesmen 30,000 lira loans free of interest. Let's figure this out first. We told Mr. Secretary that everyone's got a bad record because there are 48,000 people in the shop, and there's no record, and we said that everyone's got to get out first, and we told him that everyone's got a bad record. The shopkeepers are watching us over there. He says, "I'm going to burn myself." Where? She's in Kopeeli. He's standing there, friend, whose name is hidden in me, says I'm going to burn myself, my car. Two, friends from here asked you. I asked you about the salary you received from three institutions with a question motion. You didn't answer, but I did some research. Where did I make it? I made it out of Izmir. Where did I make it? I made it out of the Aegean, and made it out of the Black Sea. The average salary is 10,000 lira, and the average salary is 10,000 lira, even in the districts there.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0221par0144	Total?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0220par0145	Now, you see, whatever 70-75 thousand liras you're getting, you're going to have to tell me the truth, if the answer isn't 70-75 thousand liras, then you're getting paid right here, and then you're getting a salary there, and there's the tradesman's situation, and he's burning himself. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Two: You mentioned our friend in Izmir, who was last semester's MP, who left the post as an honorary president and served as a deputy minister.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0221par0148	He didn't get paid.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0220par0149	Here are my friends, our Izmir MPs.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0222par0150	He remained an honorary president, no salary.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0220par0151	He didn't get paid, you get paid, he's around you from the shop...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0223par0152	Congressmans, please don't bother with the person.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0220par0153	... With all the shares you've received, you've got the luxury car, all the staff at your disposal, you've got the MP's salary, you've got the pension, you've got the tradesman's situation. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0224par0156	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0225par0157	Members of parliament, the lawmakers who have taken the stand here are usually demanding a commitment on the basis of 2 articles. One of them is the 60th article, including the request for a short explanation, and the other is the 69th article, which has been taunted. Now, an application has begun to settle: we want to promise all the MPs as much as we want to, in accordance with their demands, but there's only two minutes of taunting, and there's only two minutes of bullying from the podium. There are some congressmen who want to speak on the basis of Article 69. Please, if you need to make a statement, it is the right thing to do so from your place. For example, our last speaker, Budak, did not respond to the ideas he claimed for taunting, just made a statement, so he made a statement according to 60. Please, let's be careful of the distinction between these two articles and the distinction, please. What do you say, Mr. Akgül? Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0226par0161	His speech at the moment was quite a tease, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0225par0162	Now, look, what did he say about you?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0226par0163	That's half the salary he said once.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0225par0164	What did he do to taunt you about your person?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0226par0165	He talked about my salary once, and I answer to the General Assembly, one.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0227par0166	Let him explain his salary, he's right, let him explain his salary.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0226par0167	Not half of what you're saying.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0227par0168	That's what the pay says.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0228par0169	Okay, is that what you're gonna say?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0226par0170	Not half of what you're saying.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0228par0171	One moment, I promise you, explain yourself, please. Get into the system.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0229par0173	But, Mr. President, he just made a promise, he didn't say.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0230par0174	What do you mean, he didn't say?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0228par0175	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0231par0176	All 5 paychecks! Five paychecks!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0232par0177	Total!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0228par0178	I don't hear you at all, and I won't hear you...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0231par0179	He'll explain his 5 paychecks at once.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0232par0180	I want total salary, total salary.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0228par0181	Here, one minute from your seat. That's the way it's gonna be from now on, friends, lawmakers. Please be careful.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0233par0185	Mr. President, now, of course, I became a MP in 2007, left TESKOMB as it was until 2011. Mehmet Ali Sesame is my president, he's my president, he's my MP. I know him very well, and I know him well. He's a good friend of ours, a hardworking friend of ours. I didn't say anything to him.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0234par0186	Pay, pay!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0233par0187	And he's gonna get paid because these are the people who put their neighbors to work and collect government money. Now, we get so many calls from Antalya that he looks at our salary for this friend? No, it's nothing like that, maybe there's an account in Antalya.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0235par0189	Yeah, yeah, I know.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0233par0190	Mr. President, we've given a loan to 1,300,000 tradesmen over the last ten years with five percent.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0236par0191	Name the salary, the salary.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0233par0193	These co-op presidents have a thousand...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0237par0194	Tell me the salary!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0233par0195	Look, nowhere...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0238par0196	Congressmans, thank you, I'm closing the deal. Your salary discussion is not our agenda, I will never promise. Please take it outside.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0239par0197	Mr. President, a congressman who's not here is charging our friend. Let him leave his own salary.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0240par0198	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0241par0199	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0242par0200	No, he never blamed me, I have great respect. He said his name, he said his brother. He made a very respectful statement.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0240par0201	But he said something wrong there, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0241par0202	Mr. President, phone calls from Antalya are coming in. It's called, "Is he interested in our salary?" This matter is in need of an explanation, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0242par0203	I'll never promise, please... you can continue this fundraiser in the lobby. That's not our agenda, please... 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Account for 2015 1) Competitiveness Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Central Management Account for 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Chairman of the IRS 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2015 1) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2015 Central Management Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Denizli MP Kazim lion will speak. Here you go, Mr. lion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0243par0239	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the budget of the esteemed lawmakers, the Ministry of Customs and Trade. First of all, I salute you with love. Also, on December 10th, I am grateful and grateful for all our soldiers and all our martyrs who have been martyred in Beşiktas, and those who have ever stood up their lives for the cause of our country. My condolences to our nation. I wish the political government would take more cautious, more careful security measures so that such events no longer take place, and that these events would not take place. Dear lawmakers, today, the greatest concern of our industry, our business, our exporter is terrorism, and therefore an environment of insecurity. There's a complete lack of confidence in the market. This trust is needed quickly, and the business world is waiting patiently for it. Political power has put its solution process with the PKK in complete dissolution, bringing the terrorist organization into a deep economic and political crisis in the shadow of unforgivable political mistakes. When you came to power, there were only PKK terror organizations, thanks to you, and with organizations such as you and ISIS, there have been two more terror organizations at the head of our state, the heads of our nation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] From the east of our country to the west, every shop, every business, every merchant and industrialist with no exception, is trying to live their lives and work anxiously from tomorrow in his mouth. Each of our tradesmen, merchants and industrialists, at this point today, has endured the cost of terrorism most severely, and unfortunately, he is trying to survive in such an environment. The callous statements of those who run the state, far from accountability, and the usual words of terror, are also a challenge to the patience of the business world. Unfortunately, our ministers, who consider everything normal and have no political responsibility, have preferred to remain silent after all that has happened. After the terrorist attacks in the EU, ministers resigned in France, Belgium, London, but unfortunately, no minister in our country has resigned. Dear lawmakers, it is a fact that every single mistake of power has caused trouble to the economy of our country and the security of lives and property today. It has damaged the reputation and image of our country, and has prevented tourists from coming. Today in tourism, really. Turkey's loss has reached an important number point. Because of faulty foreign policy, our entire business world, which owes its livelihood from agriculture to industry, trade to tourism, to peace, production, to a respectable country, clearly has to consume zero. Traders today are no longer able to carry the cost of power's mistakes. The cost of heavy mistakes and neglects is felt very heavily in our country, and social chaos is being experienced along with the economic crisis; really, Turkey must be saved from today's situation as soon as possible. Dear MPs, dear friends, customs must be transparent. Every change in regulations and generalities must be reported, especially by e-mails of customs workers, as it has been published in the Official Gazette, so that it is possible for citizens and our friends, who have a job in customs, to keep a better eye on the affairs of our citizens. Single Window application must be valued. Instead of going door to door to door to every citizen who comes to customs, there is a need to follow jobs that can end in customs, to provide real convenience to exporters and importers, Mr. Secretary. You've privatised our ports with the do-and-run model, with this privatisation, perhaps the burden of your ministry has eased, but the burden of exporter and importer has not been lightened. Because of the physical control required in exports and imports, these ports are specifically charged between $250 and $400 extra. This must be reduced to a minimum, even removed. There's a slow process in holidays and extracurricular exports. This needs to be reconsidered. If we keep this up, it's obvious that many of our exporters and importers will do these things under really difficult circumstances. My dear friends, Mr. Secretary, objective assessments of customs disputes must be brought forward. Although many exemplary decisions have been made from the courts, there is still a structure that will allow many conflicts to be created. In order for this structure to break down, this board must be evaluated through both inspectors and lawyers, and I say that these conflicts must be ended, and I salute you all again with respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0244par0252	Thank you, Mr. lion. Mr. Özkan Yım will now speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Yum. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0245par0257	Mr. President, my dear Court, my dear colleagues, and all our fellow citizens who are watching us on their screens. Before we begin our words, first, I would like to ask all of our martyrs and martyrs before December 10th, especially the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, but to our last police martyrs here on December 10th, Allah's mercy, patience for their families, and immediate healing for the wounded. Dear friends, we, the Republican People's Party, are facing all terrorist organizations, especially PKK, TAK, ISIS, DEAŞ, whatever terrorist organization you can think of. As the Republican People's Party, I would like to say again that we will defend the Republic of Turkey to the end and that we are against all terrorist organizations. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, I'd like to read a message before I begin, although our Minister of Family and Social Policy isn't here right now. A few of our citizens just called from Kütahya Emet County. In Emet County, within the borders of the district of about 50,000 people, they suffer severely because there are no specialists at the state hospital because you know why all doctors are being taken. We would like to make it very clear to both our Minister of Health and Minister of Family and Social Policy that they need to appoint an expert doctor in Emet County as soon as possible. Mr. Minister of Customs, our dear friends working customs have a few specific messages they'd like to declare, and I'd like to pass that on to you: Once, I've talked to our friends and officials who work in about 5-6 customs, and there's a serious lack of personnel, and managers say they'd be more efficient if they were one-type staff. I'm specifically stating that the Customs Ministry is the only institution within state institutions that doesn't have social facilities, and that's the kind of message that employees pass through. And they specifically say that the 3,000 additional indicators applied to our police friends -- our friends in the customs -- are now 2200 -- should be given to them as well. And finally, they have weapons licensed to carry along their duties, especially since they've been pursuing narcotics and so on, but from now on, after they retire, they want to continue with the same weapons, and I wanted to get past that message. Yes, my dear friends, I'm afraid our country is going through an economic and social crisis. In 14 years of administration, you will surely understand that by drawing pink paintings for our citizens, the AKP government believes that our country is getting stronger in all areas, it's just a pipe dream. The AKP's government has set out with zero problems with our neighbours, but due to the wrong policies, we have almost no problem with our border neighbour. Our dear friends, especially Mr. Vice President Cetin Osman Budak Bey has just given us the necessary information, and I'll give you some information as a contribution. Unfortunately, according to 2015, our country is sinking in 2016, my friends. I don't talk for nothing, I talk for statistics. Mr. Secretary, according to 2015, our exports have dropped by 3 percent -- statistics say, look, I can give you -- our foreign trade deficit has increased by 13.2%, so that's up to $4 billion 164 million. Dear friends, we're going down. About 2,734 companies closed in 2015, 2,178 companies closed in 2016; tens of thousands, maybe more, so far. For him, we don't think you're guiding the economy right, so let's not make these mistakes too soon. With the European Union... You know, last month, the European Union issued a warning message, hoping that tomorrow's vote will not be suspended, Turkey's accession talks. If - God forbid - if it gets suspended, Mr. Secretary, we can't sit in these seats or you can sit there. Because if the customs union is suspended, if we're removed from the customs unit, if we're excluded from the customs unit because of the fact that the State of Emergency hasn't been lifted, 5 million people will be out of work, Mr. Secretary. For him, I would like to express in particular that we must act more carefully in terms of human rights, freedom, in terms of the European Union's demands. Because there are 5 million families facing unemployment. Let's get to the transportation sector. Yeah, you know, every time there's a deficit in the budget, you load up on the trucker's back, the transportation industry. Dollars are rising, it's now at $3.5 euros, fuel is over $5. Wait a week, the rise of the dollar will bring the fuel to 5.5 TL. You're being charged to the insurance, to the MTV, to the highway, to the bridge. You try to drive a truck across a bridge from Osmangazi to 260 TL. How can this citizen pass? Yeah, the mover in the shipping industry, the trucker, they don't have the strength anymore. You've made his citizen unable to drive his truck anymore. One out of nine people eat from the transportation industry, eat bread, take care of their family. But he couldn't handle all the expenses, and you know what the trucker had left with the truck, Dear Minister? There's only the steering wheel left, the steering wheel! So today, the trucker's only got the steering wheel.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0246par0276	Congressman, you know, we're not allowed to bring a product when we're talking on the stand. Please...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0245par0277	That's why I want you to get off the back of the shipping industry, the transportation industry, the busman, the truck driver, the cab driver and the van driver as soon as possible. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0246par0280	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0247par0282	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement. There's a promise from the speaker about the district of Emet of Kütahya, which is not true. I'd like to take a word with him.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0246par0283	Just a minute from your position... Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0247par0287	Mr. President, our esteemed speaker has just informed us that there is not one attending left in Emet district of Kütahya. That information is not accurate. Five practitioners are currently employed in Emet district of Kütahya, with one internalist and one family physician. But there's nothing in our Emet district. You said. Look, but we admit there's a shortage of majors. But, as he just brought in the steering wheel, Republican People's Party usually likes to put on a show. They're good for our country, they're good for it. From time to time, they travel here and express them from the stand as if they're trying to create a sense that they're not interested and that they're interested in it. I advise our deputy, who is from the district of Sivaslı the baneman: You have one attending in Sivaslı district; you do not have a general surgeon, anesthesiologist, or anesthesiologist; perhaps it would be better if you spoke of them. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0248par0291	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0249par0292	Mr. President, since the speaker wasn't here yesterday in Parliament, he didn't listen to what I said yesterday about the Sivaslı Hospital, so I'd like to point out that his absence from here is little to this House.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0248par0293	Thank you, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0250par0294	You don't have four doctors, you have one specialist at Sivaslı Hospital; take care of him, take care of your province.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0251par0295	He always comes, always one of our most hardworking deputies.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0248par0296	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the speaker is standing. 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Account for 2015 1) Competitiveness Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Central Management Account for 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Chairman of the IRS 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2015 1) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2015 Central Management Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Zonguldak MP Ünal Demirtaş will speak in sixth place. Here you are, Mr. Demirtaş. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Speaker, may I see what you put in there, Mr. Speaker?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0252par0332	I put a picture of our martyr cop's son.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0253par0333	Mr. President, is there a new way of controlling visual material?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0248par0334	I'm not saying anything to him, I just wanted to know. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0254par0336	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to present the opinion of our group regarding the competition budget. I salute your high council and our people. I ask God's mercy to 44 of our officers and citizens who were killed in the terrorist attack in Beşiktaş, and to the 155 wounded, and to God for immediate healing. My condolences to all of Turkey. We're in great pain, we're at the end of the line. Two of our police officers who were killed in the terrorist attack in Beşiktaş were Zonguldaklı: Police officer Hasan Bilgin and Vefa Karakodur from Ereğli district of Kozlu district. Both of our martyrs were loved around them. From Ereğli, our martyr from my district, Vefa Karakodur was a loyal, very beloved man, such as his name. When the 6 - year - old child of the Warden asked him, "Why is my father in this box?" No one was able to answer little Duru. Once again, I curse terror, the dark forces behind terror, and those who drove Turkey to this point. Dear lawmakers, we had seven martyrs in 2002, but unfortunately right now, our country is a bloodbath because of the wrong policies of power. Every day we're shaken by a new terrorist attack. Terror is the problem of all of us, the problem of 79 million. The pain is all of us, the pain of 79 million. After every terrorist attack, we all feel mercy from this stand; we condemn terror, we curse it. We condemn terrorism, you condemn it as power, but, dear friends, we are lawmakers, our citizens chose us to condemn terrorism? Don't we have any other mission other than to condemn terrorism, folks? Dear lawmakers, this is the only place we can prevent terrorism, the House. If terror is a problem for all of us, why don't we all look for a solution in the House together? If we can't solve terrorism here, why did we become MPs? As the Republican People's Party, we have repeatedly submitted a motion to investigate Congress to prevent terrorism. Why don't you accept our motions? Dear lawmakers, ministers, you are the government, it is your duty to prevent terrorism first, of course we will support it, but you are not offended. Did our nation put you in power to condemn terror? Why don't you come up with a solution? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, look, a draft of the Constitution from the palace with a higher mind has been submitted to the House, presented the ruling party. Many articles of the Constitution of 1982 have changed, but the President's powers have not changed. Who prepared the Constitution of 1982? Kenan the Impacter prepared the Universe. What powers does the President now use? The coupzer Kenan uses the powers that the universe has issued for him.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0255par0343	We're thinking of changing it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0256par0344	We're going to change it. You're going against it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0254par0345	What's the President doing? The coupzer Kenan doesn't even like the powers of the Universe. Look, every day he oversteps those powers, he chews them, and then you say, "There's a financial situation. It's not enough for him. Now the coupzer Kenan wants powers to transcend the powers of the Universe, friends, to change the regime.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0257par0346	It's not a regime, it's not a regime; it's not a regime.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0254par0347	Look, Turkey's democracy has a tradition of a 150-year-old parliamentary regime from the Ottoman Empire.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0258par0348	Tell me which regime we're going to bring.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0254par0349	Mustafa Kemal Ataturk could have formed a presidential regime if he wanted to, friends, but he formed a parliamentary regime in the world, not in a time when Hitler, Mussolini, Franco. Later, look, even the coupgers didn't give up the parliamentary regime when Turkey's democracy was interrupted, and no coupger thought of presidential or dictatorship.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0259par0350	Who's giving up the parliamentary system?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0254par0351	And why, dear lawmakers, Mr. President, does the only man who doesn't even think about the coupgers insist on their powers, and why? Because of all the values of the modern world, the separation of forces...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0260par0352	Fear not the people, but make peace with the people; fear not the people, but make peace with the people.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0254par0353	He wants to put the state of law, freedom of the press, democracy completely on hold. Because we've changed the regime in Turkey and put Turkey behind us in a backward Middle Eastern state...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0260par0354	Otherwise, you won't be able to come to power for years; you won't be able to come, you won't be able to come.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0254par0355	He's trying to turn it back into a backward African country. Because Turkey wants to rule as one man from the palaces.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0261par0357	Democracy isn't about supporting terrorism. You know that first.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0254par0358	Because democracy was a tram to the goal when needed. Because it's time to get off the tram.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0262par0359	The people who did not send you are sending us. Make peace with the people, make peace, make peace.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0254par0360	Dear lawmakers, look, Turkey has buried its rule of palaces in history by Mustafa Kemal's leadership ninety-three years ago.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0262par0362	You haven't been in power for years. You can't come with this mind.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0263par0363	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0254par0364	Turkey will never again go back a hundred years, and we, the Republican People's Party, will not allow it. Give up your search while the road is near, dear lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0264par0365	We're not giving up.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0254par0366	Yeah, the Competition Agency isn't made up of transparent criteria. It is impossible to say that the institution that should be independent today is independent. Unfortunately, the Competition Agency is used as the club of power, like any other institution. Opposing companies are being investigated and fined, and non-compulsive companies are being protected, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0264par0367	One minute to go, go to budget.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0254par0368	Here's another company protected by the Competitive Association: the Italian Ferrero company, which makes up an acquisition monopoly. The Competition Agency has decided there is no room for an investigation on the grounds that information and documents regarding this company are not available, Mr. Secretary. I'm speaking to the Minister here: last year, Mr. Secretary, the pecans had 646 tons, the nuts were 14 lira when the price was high, but this year, the recollet was low, not even 400 tons, but the opposite, where the price would go up to 20 liras. Turkey alone provides 75 per cent of the world's nut production. We make $3 billion in nut exports, but we don't set the price of nuts. Who determines it? It's an Italian Ferrero company. What kind of business is that, Mr. Secretary? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Why are you feeding the work of the Black Sea Nutsman to the Italian Ferrero company?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0265par0372	Mr. Demirtaş, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0254par0373	I'm almost done, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0266par0374	That's what happens when you go into the budget in the last minute. Why don't you just talk about the budget?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0265par0375	I can't give you an extension, Mr. Demirtaş. It would be unfair to other friends.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0254par0376	Why don't you protect the Black Sea peasant and protect the Ferrero company? Or does he have an angel protecting the Italian Ferrero company from the hills?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0267par0377	You're the angel, you!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0254par0378	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0268par0380	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0269par0382	Mr. President, the speaker just stated that we have prepared the proposal with instructions from the palace. I want to answer.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0270par0383	Is he lying, dear, or is he lying? That's where it's coming from. Where does the instruction come from? Is he lying?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0271par0384	He's lying, he's lying! The order comes from the people, from the people, from the people!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0270par0385	He's right. Where do you get your instructions? It's amazing you're objecting. At least don't object. There's instructions coming in for everything, we all know where it came from, the whole world knows.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0272par0386	It's from the people, from the people!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0270par0387	The whole world knows you're talking!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0273par0388	Mr. Ekici, please come and check from here, General Assembly, please, if you please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0274par0389	Very democratic gentlemen, Mr. President, that's why.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0270par0390	Like you!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0273par0391	Mr. Turan, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0274par0392	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0273par0393	I didn't hear what you meant.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0275par0394	I want to speak according to the 60. Look, I'll set you up with the palace.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0274par0395	According to Article 60... the speaker just spoke with instructions from the palace.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0276par0396	You'll be sitting there tomorrow, too, if it happens, if the public chooses, so I don't think you should complain.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0277par0397	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0274par0400	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today we enjoy listening to the precious CHP MPs. We were talking when they're going to say, when will they say, "When will they say, 'When will they say, 'The president?'?" Because we're surprised when they're interested in the general problems of society, at least a little bit. Because they've got three, five issues, and they've got the headline, and they're just saying that. We're not surprised, we're back to the matter, the presidential assessment. We've told you not 40 times, not 400 times, but 4,000 times; we've been defending the presidency ever since it was founded, my friends. No instructions from the palace, blah, blah, blah, blah. Our President, our leader, our founder. We are proud of his instruction, and we are not ashamed, but let me tell you something: we have set up commissions, we have worked, we have evaluated it in MYK. As an AK PARTY group, we're on the presidency, so don't ask.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0278par0402	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0274par0403	And let me tell you something else: we brought this to the House, we're going to discuss it, we're going to discuss it, we're going to evaluate it if you have offers, but I don't think it's appropriate to be in charge of the group in the harshest terms of an offer that doesn't come into the Commission. Also, dear friends, this offer does not have a problem with legislation, the administration and the judiciary, only the regulation. The legislation and the judiciary are already in place, and there is an arrangement for execution.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0279par0405	Read the bill, you haven't read it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0280par0406	You signed on blank paper.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0279par0407	Read the bill and come back!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0281par0408	You can't tell when you're yelling, but you have to listen to it to think about it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0279par0409	Chief Inspector, chief of staff, attorney general, chief of staff, no Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0281par0410	You're like Matrushka, you're getting smaller and smaller, calm down! Calm down! There's no need. We'll make a deal if we talk. We're always listening to you. Easy... Once again, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was the party president.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0282par0412	Mustafa Kemal Ataturk had a prime minister.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0281par0413	We'll discuss this, but this is the first time that's come, so don't think of it as something extraordinary.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0282par0414	There's no Prime Minister here, he's gone!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0281par0415	Once again, the AK PARTY Group brought in the presidential system, signed it, and we're discussing it together. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0283par0418	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0284par0419	I think it should be recommended that they work for the Constitution and speak in their talks. Now let's talk about the budget.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0285par0420	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0283par0421	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0286par0422	I never picked on you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0285par0423	Mr. Vice President, the party has made a very heavy accusation that it cares very little about the general issues of society.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0283par0424	Here you go, Mr. Altay. Two minutes. This is the first time Mr. Engin has spoken from the stand today.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0287par0428	I'm trying to avoid as much pollen as I can on my own watch -- especially since I've been thinking that the Parliament climate is going to be as soft as it is after the treacherous attack on Beşiktas.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0283par0429	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0287par0430	For one thing, politics is a business of loyalty, Mr. Turan. I don't think this lack of loyalty to your founding leader is appropriate. Many members of the ruling party, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogana, are our founding leader.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0288par0431	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0287par0432	Our MP said: "The ruling party is being instructed from the palace. " The political parties are being instructed from the founding leaders and from the presidents, and why are you bothered by that?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0288par0433	You didn't listen.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0287par0434	Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan has given instructions to the Justice and Development Party Group...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0289par0435	That's what he said, Mr. Engin Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0287par0436	Now, if you change the Constitution, it will also give the Parliament instructions, supposedly! It won't change, God willing. I don't know why you're bothered by this. I would like to point out that I consider your attitude to Mr. President a political disloyalty.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0290par0437	We're not bothered.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0287par0438	Second: Republican People's Party... someone, a citizen, a journalist, has had a problem with this, but the Republican People's Party has not taken an interest in this issue; on the basis of this issue, on the basis of the parliamentary, concerned NGO organisations -- will become a district, a village -- take me from the water that doesn't flow in a village, and I will resign from the Republic People's Party's Parliament today -- until the very basic issues of İstanbul. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0291par0441	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0292par0443	Mr. President, for the record, in my speech earlier, I said, "It would be an honor for us to have our co-founder president's consultation with us." Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0291par0445	Thank you. Congressmans, this is the 3rd time I've started, please... 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Account for 2015 1) Competitiveness Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Central Management Account for 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Chairman of the IRS 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2015 1) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2015 Central Management Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Bihlun Tamaylıgil will speak last. Here you go, Mr. Tamayligil. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 16 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0293par0482	Mr. President, members of our esteemed Congress, as I was passing by the deputy president of the group, I said... because he said that we were expecting the different words of the Republican People's Party in the matter of Turkey's agenda. I, now, will tell the facts of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0294par0483	That's what we want, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0293par0484	I hope you understand this, but I don't want your answer on the Internet, on social media. If there's anything out of the ordinary here, give it to me like that.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0294par0486	It doesn't suit me, it doesn't suit me! Which answer haven't we answered yet?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0295par0487	You'd better put it in a way that people will understand.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0293par0488	The Honorable President, the esteemed lawmakers, of course, are unable to describe the pain of pain, sadness, and the pain of the whorely created terror. We all share those sufferings together, we share the pain. In the consciousness and understanding of our duties as lawmakers, it is my heartfelt belief that we should share what we need to do together here, under this roof. I truly believe that with the community's social consensus, unity, and brotherhood, this sustaining separatist, trying to tear each other apart, and that they will stand firm in the face of the scenarios set by guiding forces on Turkey. Pain is for all of us, and I sincerely hope that pain never happens again. Dear President, the esteemed lawmakers, of course, when we're budgeting, while we're talking about budgets, we're also presenting our right to review and audit our budget based on the exact accounts of the past years and those exact accounts. This is a fact that has already been explained to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by the laws it has assigned us to use this budget right, as well as by definition, as by tax collection, the spending of collected revenues, and by the powers it has given to its number. But when we look at it, we want to understand very clearly how much the final account of the past 2015 has been evaluated as we talk about the future here today, although we have repeatedly expressed the establishment of a commission on the final calculation, at the point of not setting up this final account commission. It's really important and necessary to explain why you're avoiding accountability and accountability in detail. That's one of the most important topics we need to talk about here. You have cropped and reaped the powers of the Court, yet, when you looked at it from this year's point of view, he gave important assessments to the Plan and Budget Commission, which, of course, did not include decisions about the topics that would go to judicial control, but underlineed important topics. What were those? Again, it's a reflection of the idea that goes away from control, from accountability, from institutions. Inner control, internal control, failure to establish mechanisms, lack of internal audits, lack of reports, lack of financial records in many institutions, again, lack of accounting records in terms of genders and dates, and the fact that the move-ins are registered in the general budgetal administrations of the treasury, and so on, we've already said all of these things in the Plan and Budget Commission, which are in the management and use of public administrations, but some of their property is in the possession of treasure, and many, many, many, many, many, many of them are wrong. However, despite the findings from the previous years of 2013-2014, it shows itself again as a neglect, extension, and failure to come up with a correct solution. So, if you look at the logic of budgeting, do they exist in terms of budgetary budgeting, budget discipline, transparency or accountability? So, when you say what's this covered budget? Look at the budget bill, we have a private account pen. In this particular account, there are many issues that constitute violations of Law No. 5018 concerning accountability, which constitute violations of the Constitution. According to the Constitutional Court's decisions or decisions carried out by the Constitutional Court, there have been preferences to make changes to the tender law -- either in 5018, or in accordance with the law of the budget -- but again it is against the Constitution, and again it is against the Constitution. So under the logic that we're going to change the Constitution, we can't help but see that the arrangements you've set up against the Constitution are likely to disturb you and put you on a proper basis. Now, dear friends, we've passed a law here, and what's in the law? The introduction of some assets to Turkey and the definition of the systematic process that will be implemented regarding these beings. Then it is a dangerous arrangement for you under the roof of Parliament that needs the Ministry. When you look at Turkey's point of money laundering, terrorist financing, it's important to keep a low profile. So, what happened to the painting we came across? So, then we went through a bag of legislation here, and then our beloved minister said: "Ya, you've said so much; and then we showed it to OECD, and it's appropriate, sometimes governments can stop collecting taxes, so you put it at this point, and it's not true. It's over, we've come to December 2nd, we've come to a notice. It gives such expanded rights, such powers and practices that I would like to stress that the risk of this notice from now on is too great. So, what are these? The condition of being brought to Turkey in order to benefit from the law in terms of securities and other capital market tools is lifted. Is it true? Even if you do not bring it to Turkey and register it, you will now bring presence to Turkey. Two: Documents that will be based on notifications are requested unconfirmed, and then it leaves the door wide open to whether these documents are forged or not. And thirdly, when you look at it, you say: "All the brokers, all the banks, do this process, this way, with this notice." What if, when a risk comes to them, how are you going to make the arrangements for their insurance or their legal process, and how do you evaluate it? Four: The responsibility for suspicious transaction notification of banks and brokers to prevent the laundering of black money and terrorist financing of other institutions and institutions related to customs administration is being lifted again with this notification.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0296par0497	Wrong.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0293par0498	Now -- not wrong, dear Minister -- for looking at it this way...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0296par0499	You're saying what we didn't write in the arraignment.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0293par0500	In the arrangement, when you make such an arrangement without asking for information, we have to underline the risks here and warn you. I read a column recently, and this column had some characteristics that were so true that in 1994, a ship, a great ship, and nearly 900 people, 850 people, died there. Now this ship is sinking too close to land and starting to take on water. When it reaches the first 50 centimeters, no one pays any attention because the post-accident study also shows that 98 percent of those passengers who lost their lives on the ship know how to swim. In the painting that came our way, the captain there that day would be fine. We're going ashore, don't panic. You're on the world's most powerful ferry. He says, "You're on the ferry." But after about two hours, the water is going to sink. So I also think that in any arrangement that's been made here, you have to see the risk, the possibilities very well. Now, for economists, they say that he usually has a habit of explaining to them that what he predicted yesterday didn't happen today was tomorrow. Now, when you look at that goal, you know, we made an arrangement two days ago. We've become a country that thrives as we shrink, which makes a very different and very important change that can make it happen. Now, all of a sudden, our national income has gone up, our investment rate has gone up, our spending has gone down, as a savings. And according to these old figures, we've made mid-term plans, we've made budgets, and today we're coming to discuss it. In fact, we're arguing for nothing, so it's all in your hands now that it's gone, and since it's in your possession, we're arguing with the numbers in today's... so we're going to see which one of these is right and which one is wrong in the coming days. However, I would like to share with you that important topics in the arrangement here can lead to wrongs. One: we took 2009 as a base year in these arrangements. Usually when you look at it economically, this kind of... what was 2009? In the wake of the crises, especially in the year when we were most affected by crises from the West. According to the figures we based on in 2009, growth today, investment today, we're putting in national revenue debates. This is an important mistake, which brings us to question the good faith here and to question the health of the statistical consequences. Because, you see, last year, our growth suddenly goes up to 6 percent, even 6.1 percent, but suddenly unemployment is increasing; with this unemployment increase, our industrial production is dropping, as this falls, the fluctuations in inflation are growing, but we're getting richer. Where? On paper. So I believe that these numbers should be evaluated very well, and that the need to be informed of us, beyond any possible interrogation of these numbers, should be met correctly. Now, look, we've made a ten-month budget, we've set budget goals ahead of us, but it's the days when I believe we should learn from the experience and see the risks that may be in the future well. Because what will happen to many who are interested in economics today? What's tomorrow? What picture of the next process will be drawn? While the course is constantly moving, while he's paying attention to the news coming from here... well, what will happen next year, what risks can we face? Look, by the 1990s, by creating an opening in our economic model in our country, an economic administration has brought forth the facilitating environment that this internal deficit has brought about. In the early 1990s -- 1992, 1993, 1994 -- this open mating began, the internal external explanation began to merge, and Turkey faced an important crisis. Then, after the 1990s, we said, "Let's finance ourselves from outside, create an open growth." But we've also created the growth arena or painting so that we've become a country that's producing, producing, increasing efficiency, and, along with this increase in efficiency, completely laid to the ground before making any progress in the world's competition, which has become a prisoner of globalization hegemonia, populism. Today, we face two risks in facing external open financing and external deficit budgeting after 1990. We're looking at a double explanation today when we say pre-open, then external, dependent growth. This statement must be taken immediately against the risks of the next 2017, Mr. Secretary. Because I've looked at the TÜRMOB data, and I've looked at the general statistics, and there's a meltdown in the tax revenue, including the maximum VAT real growth you've received. It is important to remember that Turkey is alone with factors that will fuel its external deficit after the OPEC decision to reduce oil production. The 160 billion loans that were supposed to be paid in a year and 35 billion bills that need to be remembered, and when you look at it again, we've, you know, we've gotten pardons, we've made one last pardon, and in this arrangement, we've said, "Why did we have so much savings in the painting that we came across, I think our economy was very good, so that's what we've become." Also, I got a tax expense report on my particular request. Friends, please take a look at the tax expense report, a 102 billion-dollar exception, and let's ask each of us how our economy is going to create the added value of our economy going towards the deficit when we stop collecting taxes. Again, what I'm trying to tell you is that the VAT, which averages 1.5 million to 1 800,000, is the number of taxpayers of income tax and real estate capital... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In a country with over 50 million voters, I'm thinking we should re-examine how qualified you are.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0297par0510	Mr. Tamayligil, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0293par0511	In fact, there's more to tell about Turkey's reality, and hopefully we'll have environments to share together. I salute the High Council with numbers.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0297par0514	Thank you. Congressmans, this concludes the talks on behalf of the group. Now, on behalf of him, Mr. Hasan Karal, Congress Member of Rize, will speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Karal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0298par0520	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the budget of 2017. Before I begin, I salute you all. The 2017 budget is the 15th budget prepared by our government. This is a record success in the republic's governments that has never been given power, and no success ever happens by chance. I'd like to talk to you about drowning you in numbers, my short speech, stability, and certain aspects of this success. Of course, states and governments that govern them have to ensure financial prosperity, increase the peace of their people. No government can remain in power long without providing for the material and spiritual needs of its people. This is also a contrast to the structure of democracy. Compromising your budget in the most efficient and practical conditions of the day also allows you to remain in power.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0297par0523	Congressmans, please be quiet.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0298par0524	As in every stage of life, finding balance here must be the key to success. Ibn Haldun did not kill people with hunger, but the food they used to eat would kill them. If you do not distribute your budget in a balanced and fair manner, you will not be able to budget in the next term. The famous sociologist, Ibn Haldun, says geography is destiny. History has shown that the geography that we've been living in for centuries has really been our destiny. If Turkey is living under extraordinary conditions today, it is better to rejoice than to be offended because our geography, our destiny, is forcing us to do so. When we overcome these challenges, it will be seen that our country will add glory to its glory. After leaving the Middle East, the Balkans, North Africa, and the Caucasus, our country, which is the hope of humanity at the center of the world, has become extinct, as we see today. I mean, we are the heirs of an ancient civilization. Although we may not like it, this civilization is forcing us all to water its dry garden. We have to resuscitate this garden of civilization with technology, architecture, art, literature, and all kinds of structures of science and art, and to present it to the people of the age who can't breathe. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd like to ask you a very quick question: Is it those beautiful shepherds or college graduates who are bleeding the world, who are unfairly taking out wars and exploiting the natural resources of the country? Jonah speaks well of Emre: What does it mean to read? / A person is to know about Hakk. In a world where right and law do not prevail, budgets are used not for human well-being, but for destruction. If human beings are no longer a cause, then somewhere, the apocalypse has been torn apart. If the world is on the verge of this apocalypse, it's not in the best interest for us to get into a fight here, my dear friends. We have to think about the universal dimensions of this budget, not just for the good of our country. A few years ago, 5 million Syrian and Iraqi refugees were not supposed to come to our country, but today we face this fact. Although the countries of the European Union have not kept their promises, it is our duty to provide material and spiritual assistance to our brothers. That's what it's like when geography is destiny. When a body is disturbed, health goes away, and if a country is affected by balance, there is no talk of prosperity, peace. And if the balance of the world weighs heavily on the strong and the rich, then the world's apocalypse. We must remember that while we are trying to maintain the balance of our own country, we are in a position to contribute to the balance of the world, because we are human, above all. The budget is like a bee and honey relationship. The bee makes honey, but it doesn't know the nature of honey. He sits on the honey that he makes, and tries to eat it, he falls into the honey and drowns. If the budget makers only look at the financial side of the business, they can disappear in the budget they're making. If we're able to budget 15 times, it's also proof that we're good at budgeting and we're good for the public. My dear friends, our civilization is a civilization that inspires hope. For every soul, as it is in the morning of every night, there is a morning of distress. Our nation, who persevered in trying to darken our nation's horizons on July 15th, reached the blessed morning. When you have faithful, firm, patient and stable leaders, the people's excitement increases and success emerges. July 15th is an epic by the nation that is integrated with its leader. With such feelings, God wishes our 2017 budget to bring blessings, and I salute all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0299par0532	Thank you, Mr. Karal. We'll now hear from the department of speeches on behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary. First, Minister of Family and Social Policy Mr. Fatma Betül Sayan Kaya will speak. Your time is 20 minutes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0300par0536	Mr. President, I'm here to present you with a speech on the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in 2017. I salute you all. On December 10th, the traitorous terrorist attack on Beşiktas in Istanbul condemns with violence and hatred all our martyrs by God's mercy, patience for their relatives, and urgent healings for our wounded. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Turkey, the hope of the oppressed nations, has broken every game played in this land for two centuries. On December 17th and 25th, and finally on July 15th, these games were asked to be re-enacted by a treacherous coup attempt. Our veteran nation has claimed the President, his government, his democracy, by saying, "Stop this invasion of its will, with the will of steel." This nation has shown its greatness by shielding its life against tanks, weapons, and resistance. On the night of July 15th, it is a myth for Turkey. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we will continue our fight against the terror centers of our region, using religion, language, race and sectarian differences, as it did on the night of July 15th, because July 15th, as in the Battle of Salvation, our nation's call for a resurrection. Once again, I thank all of the martyrs, the veterans who have made our nation our homes, the martyrs and the veterans who have migrated to the afterlife, with mercy and gratitude. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we work day and night to be worthy of the memory of our martyrs. It is incumbent upon us to take care of their wives and their children, their fathers and their mothers, whom they entrust to us. We are always with them to heal the wounds of our martyrs and veterans, to ease their suffering. This is a great honor for us. With our new arrangements, we have increased the employment rights of the relatives of the martyrs to 2 ▪. We've provided 1 employment rights for the relatives and the disabled from other civil servants who have lost their lives as part of their disability. We've provided interest-free loan support, STV and tax exemptions in real estate purchases.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0301par0543	Congressmans, please finish your conversation outside. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0300par0545	Mr. President, we've had great successes in social policies in 14 years. Every step we take to the center of development policies is more prosperous, more powerful on the road to Turkey. In the process, Turkey has implemented policies that monitor all parts of society while continuing its economic growth. The government has achieved a strong, dynamic and institutional structure, in essence, of social policy practices, rights, with emergency action plans in our programmes, which have been announced afterwards. Family and individuals have met with solutions to their needs. The social state principle, one of the main features of the republic's administration, has gained an institutional basis at this time. With the establishment of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in 2011, studies in social policy have become more dynamic. The last five years of service have been a turning point in our social policy history. We've overcome the problems caused by social change, terrorism and migration with this vision. We've moved the spirit of cooperation and solidarity to higher heights, the most obvious quality of our collection of civilization. Our success in social policy is Turkey's collective success. This success is a common area in the economy, in health, in education, in transport, where distances are met. Our ministry has come up with a system that will respond to the call of every member of every family in need, with a strong organization structure. We've developed a human-focused sense of service using information communication technologies to make it dynamic and transparent. We have ensured that everyone will benefit from services and benefits equally and fairly, regardless of any distinction or negligence. We continue to improve our services in order to achieve their goals in 2023, to develop new policies, to provide solutions to emerging social problems. With a huge increase in welfare resources, we have achieved great success in fighting poverty. The budget for social benefits in 2002 increased from 1.3 billion to about 33.7 billion in 2016. This success was achieved by the successful economic policies of our government, despite the economic crises in the world, the terrors and wars in our region. Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the main goals of our policy of fighting poverty is to break the chain of poverty. Today, some 2 million households are taking advantage of the conditional education aid we provide to encourage families at risk of poverty to send their children to regular school. In addition, we're making positive discrimination to allow our girls to continue middle school with the conditional cash transfer and the dorms we've opened. As part of the maternity aid programme, we paid about 670 million liras to 1,540,000 mothers. In 2016, we provided $7.3 billion in support for about 6.3 million people under general health insurance. As part of social aid practices, we regularly provide 250 lira a month for 292,000 women who have passed away, 250 a month for the families of 100,000 needy soldiers, and $100 a month for the children of needy soldiers. In order to make payments to our citizens in a healthy manner, we started Project Social Aid Card, and we handed over their cards to 2,100,000 people. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey has also taken care of Syrian brothers and sisters who are experiencing a great deal of drama. 600 thousand innocent civilians lost their lives in the war next to us, 12 million people are refugees. As the world watched what was happening, Turkey opened its doors to its 3 million Syrian brothers. Today, in Aleppo, mankind faces a great test. It's being destroyed in front of the world, along with a city people. Innocent civilians, women, children are being destroyed by an act that defies the dignity of humanity. In Aleppo, it is humanity that dies with innocent children. When Aleppo is destroyed, the only people who are trying to rule the world are the ones who stand by. Turkey has not remained silent in the face of what has happened in Aleppo, which has been trying to influence Syrian brothers for years. The ongoing talks under Turkey's leadership led to a ceasefire last night, and the evacuation of people trapped in Aleppo was opened. All of our state institutions have completed preparations for AFAD and Redbear. We're hearing some problems in the evacuation stage, reports of a breach of the truce. I hope that all parties will support these efforts and that we can get the civilians out of Aleppo safely. Once again, I am proud of my nation and my state, who stood by the oppressed and reached out to the afflicted. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most important services we've done is to reach out to the Syrians who live outside the camp with the Social Integration Programme. In this scope, we aim to help 1 million refugees at 100 lira a month per person. As a ministry, we have strengthened our infrastructure to ensure that social benefits can be delivered to our citizens more quickly and efficiently. With the Integrated Social Welfare Information System, all transactions on social benefits for our poor citizens are being conducted electronically. The case management system will facilitate the co-ordinated pursuit of problems in the household by public service units. Hopefully by the end of 2017, we'll be able to complete our work on the Social Harmony Index, which is the first time in our country to measure social risks at the level of the neighborhood and its lower dimensions. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are the most important value of the family, the community, the future, the continuation of our generation. In social policy practice, we're implementing new service models that are centralizing the family. The family, the founding power of our civilization, is the common roof of love, mercy, justice, unity and brotherhood with its human values. The most important guarantee of our historical continuity is the values found in the family furnace. With that understanding, we are working to create a prosperous society of happy individuals and powerful families in Turkey's historical march towards 2023. In order to strengthen the family structure, to increase the family's ability to solve problems, we give special attention to research, education, advice, and guidance. The Family Education Programme, which we run to improve the awareness of families, is just one of the activities that are being carried out for this purpose. So far, 550,000 of our citizens have benefited from the Family Education Programme, and 460,000 of our citizens have benefited from the Prenuptial Education Programme. As a ministry, we have implemented the Family Social Support Programme, which is based on family-oriented service. With this project, the problems and needs of the families are determined and resolved. We started the Social Harmony Programme to deal with the substance abuse that is leading to the most important problems that threaten our family and community structure. With another project conducted by our ministry, we mistake social policy practices that support the participation of our Roma citizens in social life. In 11 counties in Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions, we continue to provide multi-directional support to families affected by terrorist incidents. In this context, we also deliver social benefits and social services to about 290,000 citizens in the 50,000 homes we have reached. Similarly, we provide psychosocial support for our Syrian guests living in 26 temporary housing centres. In this regard, we have provided psychosocial support to about 104,000 Syrians. Mr. President, dear MPs, children are the future of our nation. Because of the fact that the best care environment for children is family, we have determined the basic axis of our child's policy as a family-side care. Our ministry's children's policy continues with the understanding of individualized care and protection for each child. With family support, foster care, and adoption practices, we encourage children to be cared for in a family environment. Today we support about 86,500 of our children in the family. In the last 12 years, nearly 11,200 children have been returned to their families in the institutional care. Our number of foster homes -- 520 in 2002 -- has found about 5,000 today. One of the key consequences of our family-oriented child policy is the adoption of 15,000 children. With such zeal, 92 percent of our children under institutional care have been placed in home care. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are the subject of strong societies, powerful civilizations. It is the woman who prepares for the future that makes family and society strong. As the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, we take special interest in strengthening her social status. With the amendments to the 10th article of our Constitution, we strengthened the principle of equality of opportunity for men and women. We reject any discrimination, violence, and abuse that can make her the other way around. Our multi-faceted struggle with violence against the woman continues in all areas. It's an important service that we've started for our women who have been abused or threatened by violence, our violent prevention and monitoring centers. We still aim to expand our violence prevention and monitoring centers throughout the country in 49 provinces. We plan to re-organise our female guesthouses based on the changing needs of women, depending on the profiles we serve. I would like to stress in particular that we will continue our work in a sense of zero tolerance against violence. It is not possible to develop a social policy for women by ignoring the role that she plays in the family as a wife and mother. For this, we encourage the woman's participation in business, but also strengthen the harmony between family and business. We're taking every precaution for violent women to participate in their work life, we're collaborating between institutions. We aim to increase women's employment to 31 percent in the 10th Development Plan. We aim to increase it to 41 percent in 2023. We continue our efforts to make women more active, more productive and stronger in every aspect of social life. Dear lawmakers, we've made many constitutional and legal arrangements to strengthen our women and make them more effective in every aspect of life. With the amendment to Article 10 of the Constitution, we have implemented the Law on the Protection of Family 6284 and the Protection of Violence Against Women, and many more reforms. Beyond that, we actually have a revolution of mentality. The architect of all these reforms and changes is our President. The AK PARTY authorities have eliminated the discrimination that our women have been exposed to for years. As a result of these revolutionary radical changes, all of the women in our country have been granted the right to be elected as ministers, deputies, mayors and city councilors, for the first time, without being discriminated against by their disguises. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, I owe a debt of gratitude on behalf of the women of my country. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, one of the areas where we serve as the Ministry is the disabled. The conditions for the lives of disabled citizens are a requirement of our social and conscientious responsibility. We work to make sure that our disabled are active in all aspects of social life, from sport to art, from management to business. In 2010, we strengthened our legal infrastructure by guaranteeing positive discrimination for the disabled on a constitutional level. We announced our National Action Plan for Autism Spectrum Disorder in 2016-2019. We have provided and continue to provide all kinds of support with public institutions related to education, health care, employment, accessibility. According to different obstacle groups, we take special interest in policy studies. To that end, we're going to major in the public and private sector. In order to support the participation of disabled people in their work life, we encouraged disability employment in public and private sectors. Today, the number of disabled people employed only in the public sector is about 49,000, and the number in the private sector is close to 100,000. Our primary goal is for disabled and elderly ones to be supported by their families and in their social environment. In addition, we take the necessary measures to improve the quality of care services and ensure active aging. With a medical approach to care services, we are based on the model of social approach and human-focused understanding. The results of our efforts toward disabled citizens are increasing our enthusiasm. It is my belief that this ministry's service will soon spread in waves and spread throughout society. With the participation of all institutions, all communities, in public and in private, we're moving quickly towards becoming an unstoppable society. This success is Turkey's success. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the important steps in our changing sense of service is the social services centers that we're trying to promote throughout the country. With social services, our citizens have access to all of our ministry's services through a single door system...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0302par0571	Mr. Secretary, your time is up...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0300par0572	Can we extend it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0302par0573	...but I'm adding three minutes of our Finance Minister's time to your speech time.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0300par0574	By the end of the year, we will still have completed the number of social services centres that serve at 209 locations.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0302par0575	Mr. Secretary, wait a minute, let's open the system. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0300par0577	Our social services centers are an important step forward in implementing our ASDEP project.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0302par0579	Guys, this isn't a movie theater, we're hearing it, there's a problem with the sound. It's not a showroom either. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary, three minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0300par0582	By the end of the year, we will still have completed the number of social services centres that serve at 209 locations. Our social services centers are an important step forward in implementing our ASDEP project. Our ministry has launched efforts to provide more effective services to our citizens abroad, as it is at home. We opened our first attache last year in Düsseldorf, in May. Our organizational efforts continue at 20 different locations where our Turkish citizens live intensively. Mr. President, valued MPs, the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy for 2017 is 24 billion 303m 388,000 liras. We also plan to use about $6 billion of the Fund for Social Aid and Solidarity again in social benefits. About 84 per cent of our budget in 2017, or 20 billion, 519 million, 581 000 liras, have been earmarked for welfare spending. 95% of the resources assigned to our ministry will be used in social welfare and social services. We aim to expand our services nationwide through the 2017 investments. We'll be making significant progress in child services with six children's home sites, seven SODEMs and 80 children's homes. In 2017, we planned to open 41 social centers, 6 unblocked living centres, 10 hope houses and 11 nursing homes. Our family support centers, which aim for our women's social integration and occupations, are still serving with 84 organisations in 62 counties and districts. In 2017, we will expand these centers, especially in all the cities and districts needed in the East and Southeast Anatolian region. Mr. President, I'd like to point out here that the great distance we take in social policy is directly proportional to the budget resources provided for us. The opportunity for social policy is also a clear indicator of the welfare level of a country. Our success as a country in economic and other areas reflects directly on the welfare of society. This success is a measure of human development as well as economic development. Every success we've achieved in social politics brings us closer to the tradition of civilization that we rehabilitate. Every success we achieve increases our love for happy, prosperous service on the road to Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one more moment, please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0303par0591	Mr. Naci Agbal, our Minister of Finance, should I give you two more minutes?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0300par0592	He does.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0303par0593	They did. Two more minutes, okay.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0300par0595	We will continue to do our best not to leave any of our citizens alone during this difficult period. The material resources we have are getting richer and richer with the spiritual value of this land. This nation is worthy of the best of service, with its woman, its man, its old man, and its young man. With every service we've done, the state-national union is getting stronger, and with every service to this saint nation, our flag is fluctuating. No force, no game will stop us from serving this nation with love, no matter what it comes from the front. With these feelings, I want to thank everyone who's worked so hard to reach our citizens of social welfare and services. I wish our fiscal budget in 2017 to be good for our country and our nation, and to thank you, our esteemed deputies, who contributed to the Plan Budget Commission and the General Assembly, on behalf of our nation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0304par0600	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0305par0602	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0304par0603	You have a request for your position?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0305par0604	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0304par0605	Here you go. Wait a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0305par0607	We have a request on behalf of the group regarding the Minister's statements.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0304par0608	Are you going to make a statement?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0305par0609	Yes, the explanation.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0304par0610	We'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0305par0611	Wait a minute?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0304par0612	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0305par0613	Two minutes, isn't it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0304par0614	Plus one minute, if you can't finish it, I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0305par0615	Okay, well, thank you. Now, I'd really like to ask Mr. Secretary about women, but I didn't know how to ask him, because he's been talking about family and welfare all this time, and it's just a couple of paragraphs, maybe in the conversation about women. It's actually being declared that women don't have a budget for basic areas of problem, especially violence, because it's a welfare budget. There are 137 guesthouses in the Ministry and it operates at 2.443 capacities. So Turkey is 78 million and we're talking about this capacity in a whole country. And number 4320, now 6284...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0306par0622	Complete it, Mr. Kerestecioglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0307par0624	We're not answering questions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0308par0625	I'm making a statement on behalf of the group, Mr. Bulent.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0306par0626	Mr. Kerestecioglu, please tell me what you're going to say. Here, just a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0308par0628	Then don't let them tell me. You can say it over there.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0306par0629	You won't listen, you won't hear things.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0308par0630	I didn't find out...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0306par0631	Yes, you're right, slowly...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0308par0632	... because, yes, I don't intend to be such a politician.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0306par0633	Of course, you'll learn slowly. We've all been through the same process.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0308par0634	No, I won't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0306par0635	Wait a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0308par0636	Thank you. The previous 4320, now number 6284, Civil Law, Turkish Penal Code, İstanbul Convention, instead of thanking the women's struggle for all these years, I think it really meant a lot to the women in all of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0309par0638	I thanked the President and Parliament.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0308par0639	I prevent violence from women, preventing child abuse, how you're going to run campaigns for this, education, media projects...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0310par0640	There's a question, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0308par0641	If you look at the entire budget, can you see a gender-sensitive budget, I'd really like to hear it. I also wanted to express them as someone who's been struggling in this field for years. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0311par0644	Thank you. Mr. Akkaya, would you like to say something? What is your request?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0312par0647	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary may have used a segregated language in his speech, perhaps unaware of our martyrs and veterans. I don't think you're using it on purpose...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0311par0648	Of course.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0312par0649	But if you'll excuse me, I'd like to remind him that maybe he'll fix it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0311par0650	Let him take a look at the reports, if there's anything different... Perhaps you heard wrong, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0313par0651	No, let him say it, sir, let him say it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0312par0652	Mr. President, now, when the Minister speaks of the rights and laws of martyrs and veterans...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0311par0653	I understand, I understand your request.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0312par0654	...on July 15th, he said he took July 15th as a year. Now, a Minister of the Ministry of the Republic of Turkey based on July 15th, before July 15th, the thousands of martyrs and veterans under this land...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0314par0656	No, I never said that.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0311par0657	He says he didn't say that. I'm hearing it from here, Mr. Akkaya. Because, since it's sensitive, please don't continue. I didn't say that. He says, "Let him look at the transcripts. If he said something like that, it's not on purpose. We promise he'll fix it."
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0312par0658	I want the records looked at.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0315par0659	Mr. President, Mr. Deniz Depboy would like to make a statement for a moment.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0311par0660	Mr. Depboylu, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0316par0662	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary has made a statement to the martyrs and veterans during his speech, and also to his relatives, that there is a difference between those who are veterans on July 15th and those who are martyrs and those who are veterans in the fight against terrorism, and I want to remind you again. Between the two, there is discrimination between our veterans and our martyrs. Again, I'm told that studies are being done and successful in studying girls, but I'd like to know the fate of 234,932 students from the Ministry of National Education, which left most recently in 2014. Again, he can't read four percent of every 10 girls. I wonder what kind of success they're predicting. How do they think they're doing? Again, they talked about their work on refugees. I know there are studies of refugees from Syria, but of course these studies are useful and appropriate. Why isn't it made for the Churchy Turks?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0317par0668	Complete, please, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0316par0669	With the decision made by your governments after 2010, the Ajska Turks lost many rights, having many problems with health-care education. They simply want the rights given to the Syrians to be recognised to them. What must be done for the common Turks? I'd like to make a special request that this matter be studied. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0317par0671	Thank you, too. 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Account for 2015 1) Competitiveness Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Competitive Association's Central Management Account for 2015 [[Continue]] 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Chairman of the IRS 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2015 1) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Contractorship 2015 Central Management Terminate Account 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Privatisation Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] Now, our Minister of Customs and Trade, Mr. Bulent Tüfenkci, will speak. Mr. Tüfenkci, your time is 20 minutes, please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0318par0706	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm here to present the budget of the Ministry of Customs and Trade under the budget bill for the year 2017. Before I begin my words, I pray to all of our martyrs who were killed in the traitorous attack at Beşiktas, who were martyred in the 15th of July and in the fight against all terror, God, the Lord of God, for our wounded, for mercy and immediate healing. During the January-October 2016 period, we collected 68 billion 207 million TL, which corresponds to about 18.7 per cent of our country's central government tax revenues. Our customs doors are equipped and renovated with technology to respond to increasing foreign trade volumes. We renovated the Wisher and Crazy-Aktaş Customs Doors and launched at the end of 2015. We've completed the reconstruction of our Esendere Customs Gate to Iran this year, and hopefully soon, we'll all have the opening ceremony together. The Ringed Customs Directorate has acquired its modern facilities in Çazca, where its activities are being carried out as of March 2016. With the opening of the ring, we have taken an important step in both relaxing domestic traffic and reducing the congestion of foreign trade. We have laid the foundation of Van Kapaköy Customs Gate on August 24, 2016, and hopefully we will have completed the renovations by the end of 2017. We're rebuilding and renovating the Sarp. In the year 2018, we will have completed the construction of our Sarp Border Gate, fully renovated. We're also restructuring Habur and Hamzabeyli in line with the Single Stop Project. We reopened the grape. So, Hakkari, we made progress not only with Iran, but also with Iraq. We also provide customs services for those who leave our country, primarily as humanitarian aid, to support Operation Firat Shield in Karkamis. Dear friends, we've come a long way in the Single Window System, and we're about to finish. With this project, all customs services related to foreign trade will take place from one point and all operations will be conducted from here. The system is divided into e-files and e-appropriates. We've completed the e-mail. Currently, 116 documents are being processed via the Single Window System. In the first half of 2017, we will have completed the e-investigation phase. Our Single Window studies have received the appreciation of all relevant segments. We care deeply about sharing information and documents with public institutions and institutions as the Ministry of Customs and Trade. We've signed protocols to share information with many interested agencies, including momentary exchanges of information. We've implemented a preliminary statement for personal vehicles brought in as part of tourist conveniences. What does that mean? When the doors were jammed, we made it especially easier for our passengers to make a statement in advance. For the first time, we have lifted the condition of a hundred and eighty-five days abroad for the transportation of our citizens who have retired abroad. So, we prevented our citizens from being sent back from the border gates, preventing them from being victimized. In fact, we're allowed to enter their vehicles for a month, even if they don't have any rights, even if we're moving further and further abroad when our expats arrive at customs doors with their vehicles. In micro-export, we've added a landway to the airway. It was cost-effective that the trade that was done in this way was only done by air. We've activated it by adding a land route to it as a general request. We've started the Container Harbor Tracking System. That's how all the furniture activity in the harbor became monitored electronically. We're leading E-Top projects around the world, dear friends. We're the country that uses the most truck report cards. You know, our friends say we're going back in transport. So, basically, when we look at e-thirsts and logistics companies, we're constantly improving, and we're competing with the world. In addition to expanding the geographical use area of the truck system, automation is of special importance to our country. We're trying to improve border trade. Instead of a one-central analysis of customs, people's customs transactions are subject to different institutions, we also work to ensure that all transactions are in one centre. Our black border gates are working on the foundation 24/7. So we're trying to coordinate other public services and institutions that serve customs in this understanding. Hopefully, we'll go to this system in 2017. We're preparing the Master Plan of our black doors, so we're looking at the flow of commerce, we're determining the flow of work. We're bringing all our customs doors to a common standardization. The fight against smuggling is really important to us. Our determination and success in this matter continue to grow in 2016. By the end of November 2016, we have conducted an illegal capture of 1 billion 893 million worth of contraband. Due to its financing for terrorist organisations and organised crime networks, we take special interest in dealing with drugs and cigarette smuggling. In two years, we reduced the smoking rate from 21 percent to 7.5 percent, dear friends. This is an important achievement. The number of illegal cigarettes seized in both customs areas and in the market has reached 11 million 216 thousand packages. For example, in the past few months, 3 million 450 thousand packs of illegal cigarettes weighed 100 tons were seized in the Sea of Marmara. With this operation, illegal cigarettes have been seized at the most at once at sea. As a result of intensive work and operations, 2,400 kilograms of drugs were seized in our customs in 2016. We have strengthened our physical, technical infrastructure at our border crossings, increasing our personnel and quality. Following our intensive measures, Turkey is no longer a transit country between east and west in drug trafficking in our country. The illegal trade of opium derivatives also included international reports that the Caucasus in the north and the Mediterranean in the south are being used more often. In the fight against fuel smuggling, our Ministry's co-ordination continues effectively and uninterruptedly. The effective work of the special team to combat fuel smuggling has been carried out by detecting 1 billion 368m euro irregularities. We use all the resources of automation and advanced technology to fight smuggling. In 2016, we made our Command Control Center our customs doors 24/7. We've also been able to track the ships that sail in our black waters. We're constantly increasing our technical capacity and renovating. We're spreading the X-ray systems all over our doors, renovating the aging technology. At this point, our technical equipment and physical infrastructure, used to combat trafficking, are at the same level as the developed country's customs administrations. In this year, our ministry has provided the use of our personnel by providing drug and chemical detection devices that can identify 16,000 different substances, which are being used in the world as well. Dear friends, of course, you have to talk about domestic trade. In particular, we are rapidly implementing many projects and e-government applications to stimulate domestic trade, to improve internal trade, to increase competitiveness, access to financing, to allow it to be opened to international markets, to reduce bureaucracy. First of all, we've facilitated commercial transactions. In an effort to improve the investment climate, we have implemented laws on changing certain laws and thus pave the way for improving the investment climate. We've made it easier to start a company, cut costs, and we've brought electronic trade and retail to legal ground. In our work as ministers, we have increased confidence in trade. We have made significant changes in the Turkish Trade Law and the Czech Law in order to boost trust in the check and block a blank check. In this regard, we have imposed a fine on a bad check, and we have imposed on the Czech Czech Czech System, which will give the check credit. In addition to our SMEs, we have passed the Translative Rehni Law, which allows us to use loans in exchange for our traders, tradesmen, farmers, farmers, and free tradesmen's rehab, with your support, and, hopefully, it will take effect on 1 January 2017. With the law, commercial actors will have easier access to financing, so they can invest more and more. We also implemented the central register registration system, MERSIS, one of the four main databases in our country. With this system, the enterprises and companies' organisation, the changes and closures have been moved to electronic media. Again, with the support of the Credit Guarantee Fund in particular, we have increased loan opportunities for both our small businesses and our SMEs in the interest of improving trade and increasing investment. As the Ministry of Customs and Trade, we have established IRIS. For consumer products, we have implemented the Risk-based Control System at Ithalatta, which is based on risk analysis of product safety controls carried out in our ministry's import phase. It's important because it's the link between domestic trade and import. We do risk-based audits when imported products enter Turkey. We're sending it to our labs to secure the product. We thus prevent unsafe products from entering the dorm at our border crossings. Dear friends, valued lawmakers, the ESDES System for Incentivisation and Support of Traders and Artists continues without slowing down. We've given zero interest loans to our tradesmen and artists. In 2015, for the first time, we provided zero interest loans for tradesmen and artists operating in professions that have gone missing with entrepreneurs and artists who have mastery documents. At the end of 2015, unlike the previous years, we brought in two new loans. Dear friends, some of our friends, especially here, are talking about the closing number of tradesmen. It has been observed, in fact, that improvements in legal legislation have increased the capacity of our tradesmen and artists to do business, and that the number of businesses that have been opened by our tradesmen and artists over the years has increased in parallel with the improvement of our country's economic situation. In this context, 209,078 of our new tradesmen were registered in 2016, opened a shop; 91000 of our tradesmen closed their shop. This means that two new businesses have been opened in exchange for each closing job. Again, when we look at it, valuable friends, commercial companies, and until November, a total of 111,921 commercial enterprises were opened; the number closed was 38,526. So it's started three business transactions against one closing business. As part of support for our tradesmen, we also started the loan-free loan of 50,000 euros, especially in addition to the support we've given to our Sur tradesmen who have suffered from terrorism, and especially to our Sur tradesman, as instructed by our Prime Minister. Dear friends, we have implemented new regulations by strengthening the administrative and financial structures of agricultural sales co-ops and troops. We've reconstructed past credits used by the troops. We've made 13 new decisions with the participation of our President. We're building an unemployment fund for our tradesman. Let's give you another piece of good news here, and our friends here have also mentioned, hopefully with the support of the opposition, with your contribution, we've sent the pardon of the record to the Commission, the Prime Minister's Government, and we've transferred it to the Commission. Hopefully, with your support, we'll get this out. We're all going to open the white page to our shop. Also, as I've just stated, our work for our tradesman's unemployment fund continues with the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, and we are studying the Hal Law again. There were some complaints here. We're still working on the field to work this further. Hopefully we'll finish this as soon as possible. Especially here, we're going to be implementing the mechanisms of marketing and enhancing the capacity of our manufacturers. Our manufacturers will be able to sell their property directly through the manufacturers. We also launched a study to shorten the marketing chain at the point that vegetables and fruits can reach retail sales points at less cost. Dear friends, of course, what's important to us here is that we're making licensed storage especially common, and we've also activated incentive mechanisms here. We add new products to the products that will be stored in licensed warehouses. We've recently covered the Pistachio, and we've reduced the cost of the dry apricot's licensed warehouse investment here. We're going to include the raisins in this coverage very soon. So we increase both capacity and product. We've started the government-funded payment for half of what the Mudis pay for licensed warehouses, and in addition to that, we're setting up the Turkish stock exchange. At some point, we have started the work of the retailers, the merchants, to apply and finish their transactions. Dear friends, we also want to turn our cooperatives back into elements of the economy. In particular, we want to eliminate the lack of control in co-ops that bring small entrepreneurs and small farmers together to make co-ops a part of the economy, and we're going to diversify in co-ops. Dear friends, especially our Competitive Association, at this point, both in terms of market regulation and in terms of self-reaching and resuscitation, at the point of the companies they're looking at, they're doing the necessary initiatives and work. In particular, we'll bring back a few articles related to the Competitiveness Association in the next term, and we'd like your support here. We want the Competitiveness Agency to be more modernly active in market regulations, effective in audits. I pray to God that our 2017 budget is a blessing.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0319par0739	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Our Minister of Finance, Mr. Naci Agbal, will speak now. Madam Secretary, your time is 17 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0320par0744	Mr. President, I've come to express my views on the Constitutional Budget Bill in 2017 of the Ministry of Finance and its institutions. At the beginning of my words, I salute you all. First of all, I call upon my Lord to bless our country, our nation, the central management budget of 2017. We're having a hard time budgeting, and it's the last few days. We're going through a period in both the global economy and the natural development of the Turkish economy. In particular, the recent fluctuations in the global economy have had an impact on all developing countries, and, of course, it naturally has an impact on the economy of Turkey. Of course, as a government, so far, we've made a lot of arrangements to meet the needs of both the global economy and the needs of our own economy, we've taken measures, we've passed reform arrangements from our parliament single-handedly. Today's talks have been assessed, particularly since recently, that there has been no reform, that there has been no legal arrangement. In short, I find it necessary to share both investment in the economy during the 64th and the 65th government period, to increase both production and export and employment in terms of our country's vision of 2023, as well as to share it with you, as well as with the headlines. Especially in the economic climate, the improvement of the economic climate, the improvement of the investment climate, the strengthening of the legal state and the making of comprehensive regulations on the fundamental economic factors that form the components of development have been the main feature of this period. I'd like to share with you shortly the arrangements we've made. We've brought the exception of bank insurance treatments to loans used to finance machine and equipment investments in this period, over the last year. We've made exceptions to income tax for the earnings of our young people who have started a new business for up to $75,000 over three years. In this period, we again removed VAT, both in food and in fertilizer, to bring down production costs in agriculture. You know, with the legal arrangements we've made over the last year, we've made arrangements that we can almost call the second generation RD reforms. In this regard, it is especially important that we include design activities in RD incentives. We've included design activities in the incentive system, just like RD activities. We've brought 50 percent more exceptions to qualified RD and design companies. During this period, we reduced the number of minimum staff workers in RD centers from 30 to 15. In this period, we also brought customs tax, funds, stamp tax and the exception of tuition to imported goods for R&D and design projects. Turkey has become a truly attractive country in its region, especially with its basic reforms from 2002. We want to make Turkey, in particular, a central base for global companies in its region. To this end, we've brought the exception of profit for regional management centres. In this period, we also provided the exception of earning wages for employees who work at regional management centres. Again, we have expanded the scope of service exports in Turkey, both in the IT sector and especially in the service sector, using the advantages that we have in the service sector, and we have expanded the exception of 50 per cent of service exports at this time. Again, part of the arrangements we made during this period were the arrangements for the financial sector. In particular, we have implemented arrangements to reduce the indirect tax burden on the financial sector, lower processing costs, and to ensure that all businesses, especially those operating in the financial sector, can have equal treatment of all financial institutions in the face of tax laws. In particular, we've evened tax loads on financial institutions and financial products, and we've implemented important simplifications in this period. Again, we also made significant changes in the Mark Tax, which is often expressed, and in the Law of the Harm. You know, the stamp tax is in every aspect of our lives, especially on contracts with a common stamp tax. Again, with the arrangements we've made during this period, we've removed the issue of taxing from each copy, perhaps the most important in the stamp tax. In many cases, we have again removed the stamp tax practices, which are a burden on investment, production, export and employment. Again, we have made important tax arrangements to encourage savings during this period. We've made tax arrangements to encourage longer-term savings in both the individual pension system and savings. In this period, we have been able to download heat insulation and energy savings spending directly from commercial gain. Again, we have implemented a legal arrangement that will eliminate a separate declaration to the tax office, which our citizens have often expressed, a separate declaration to the Social Security institution -- God willing. Our employers will combine statements to the tax offices and Social Security Agency for our employees, which they will only be able to give to the Chairman of the IRS. Again, in this period, especially following the low coup attempt on July 15th, we quickly brought in the law of restructuring tax debt, peace of property, and increase of the memorabilia, taking into account the needs of the economy. When we look at the application results in practice today, we are very pleased to see the acceptance of the arrangement we have made with our citizens. Again, in this period, we have passed the Act of Awareness. Lastly, you know, Mr. Prime Minister has made his statement, and hopefully we'll continue implementing minimum wage bonus support in 2017. We'll delay social security premiums in January, February and March, which are equivalent to minimum wage premiums. These are very important arrangements. Again, in the manufacturing industry in 2017, we reduce the tax loads on our companies investing in manufacturing industry, we bring back VAT, we raise the percentage of the exceptions we've brought up in corporate taxes. Thus, as a result of the legal arrangements we've made over the past year, we've carried out a large number of reformary arrangements that will bring investment, production, employment and exports up and ensure the legal security of our businesses' investment decisions. In the meantime, I would especially like to mention the Peace of Being Law. First of all, let me be honest with you, I've been saying the same thing on this bench from the very beginning: as Turkey, the Law on the Peace of Being passes through the House, through your high acceptances, is a law in accordance with international norms. International norms are a law in a configuration law that carries all the conditions it wants. When I said from this platform that this arrangement was appropriate to all norms, some of our friends said it was against certain norms. That's right, so I shared with them the assessment that OECD had been made by FATF. So at least at this point, I'm looking forward to the fact that our assessments as governments have been accepted by international agencies and that they've been considered the same way. At least I think we have the right to wait for such a spirit. On the other hand, there are different demands from our investors, from our financial institutions, at the point of implementation of the Peace Act, and we have come together with investors, banks, financial institutions on that subject, and we've arranged a notification to move forward from all these talks, to regulate what the law says more clearly. I'm telling you today, all the issues we've made in the notification arrangement are relevant to international norms. It does not present any different judgment than the provisions of the law. Our citizens can freely bring their assets abroad - money, exchanges, gold deposits, to our country. Look, starting from 2018, all countries are starting to share information with each other. Today, each country makes these kinds of arrangements one after another. The fact that we have made such an arrangement as Turkey is the right arrangement as a time. We offer our citizens: You know very well that for different reasons, our citizens consider a number of assets they make abroad in different areas abroad. Is this for Turkish citizens only? The citizens of the United States do it, the citizens of England do it, the citizens of France do it. Thus, countries make such arrangements to draw their citizens back to their homes. And what We said in the notification: 'You shall bring your wealth, and you shall save yourselves however you wish.' What did we tell the banks, what did we say to the financial institutions, that we told the citizens to meet their demands? And don't drown it in the document when you're doing it. In any case, it is not possible for a person to benefit from the consequences of the law if any notification is not in line with the truth.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0321par0770	It's not that simple.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0320par0771	The regulation of the notification on the property is not merely the only option in the way of notification in terms of the securities. If our citizen wishes, he can bring his foreign stock and bond to Turkey physically. A tool here can store it in the institution, open an account. We're just bringing in a statement here as one of the options. So, why are we bringing this? When you talk to banks, financial institutions, investors, whether you sit down or not, there are demands of such a thing that are, in any case, hidden in that country's storage agency, so it's a being that's under record. From time to time, it is brought up: Where will these beings be brought to Turkey? From where will they be brought? It will be in the form of bringing assets registered abroad to banks and financial institutions in Turkey. Therefore, let our citizen bring all kinds of assets; no investigations, no investigations, no investigations. Because we believe that when a citizen brings his money here and declares it, it's included in the registered system of the Republic of Turkey. From that moment on, it's in the system. Where's he gonna get that? He'll bring it from a bank account overseas. In that bank abroad, and mostly in the geography on the western side of geography, which, somehow, is legitimate when that money stops there, in that bank, in that financial institution, it's legitimate, according to me -- it's okay -- but when that money is brought here, we're in various cases with very different names. Therefore, I believe that the existing assets of our citizens' finances will be brought to Turkey by the use of this law. From that point on, our delivery is a very accurate arrangement. All issues that are subject to the general rule of law are clearly expressed in the notification. In addition, regulations in the previous existing peace laws have been taken into account. Let me express that in particular. So I've already expressed this to the Peace of Being Law here -- hopefully we'll extend it for six months. In the meantime, I'd like to point out that as the Ministry, we're going to run an intensive campaign on the Peacekeeping Act, which will also introduce the resources of the law to our citizens. You know, in the meantime, the application deadlines for the Reconstruction Act have ended, the first installment payments have been made. About 12 billion pounds of our citizens paid by the end of November, paying by the end of November, and the number is growing every day. As part of this law, we received about 8 million 541,577 applications. When I say that, it's compared to a bread issue, which I'm amazed at. What we're saying is that our citizen...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0322par0775	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0320par0776	Mr. President, thank you. Our citizen showed great appreciation for the Reconstruction Law, which we have brought as a state, and showed great interest and interest. Really, as of late November, we got a busy application. I mean, what am I basing this on? When we looked at previous restructuring laws, compared the numbers, this time our citizen showed real interest. Second: More than making his applications, he came in intensively, making his first payment. The last day, of course, was a natural density; banks became dense, tax offices became dense. On the last day, our citizen has actually flocked to the IRS to pay the restructuring payment. So during the day, we kept our tax offices open late at night. No tax office will be closed until the work of one of our last citizens is finished. We said, and I am very happy to say that by late night, our Finance Ministry staff made these collections by showing a truly great, selfless work. I'd like to present to you the staff of my Ministry. I thank our citizens. Really, they showed intense interest and interest that day, and this successful application continued.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0323par0779	There was a problem online that night, they couldn't get in, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0320par0780	Therefore, I express to the Reconstruction Law that should not be drawn to a different point than the purpose of a sentence that I have expressed to show our citizen's intense interest.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0324par0781	After that, they pay first installments, and then they can't pay after that.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0320par0782	As the ministry, we are working very hard to fight off the off-the-book economy. We use electronic government applications, e-government applications, intensively. In particular, we have intense efforts to improve the efficiency of collection operations. As the head of the ministry's administration, a very busy work is under way at the National Real Estate Directorate regarding the sale of 2/B properties. We're taking applications from citizens we've granted twice. So, as the Ministry, we're dealing with an unregistered economy as a whole. With a firm emphasis on budget discipline... hopefully, in 2016 -- you'll see -- in the end of the year -- our balances in the budget will clearly show that as government, we continue budget discipline with determination. On the one hand, we're paying attention to budget discipline, and on the other hand, we're contributing to all kinds of jobs, investments, jobs, production and exports that our citizens need; we're doing better education, we're doing better, we're doing better health. When all these services are being done, we're essentially lowering our interest budget, and on the other hand, we're increasing the budget we're giving the citizen. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0325par0786	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. He will now speak on behalf of his own behalf, Mr. Arzu Erdem, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0326par0790	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill. I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly, and I wish to greet our beloved Turkish nation from here. Speaking of which, Mr. Secretary of State is not available at the moment, but I'd like to give you a heads-up. On January 28, 2009, you know that a record pardon came through. The victim of the trade and credit card may have been a bit psychologically relieved, but since the bank records were available again in copies of the bank when they went to the banks, they also psychologically entered this reflex: despite the fact that the records of those arrivals had been erased, the records on the blacklist, unfortunately, we can't change the order of our bank to give the loan. In that sense, even though you deleted it, they specifically warned that we cannot lend credit to the citizens. At the time, the issue of a record pardon did not reach its conclusion. I'd like to point that out from here. Dear lawmakers, while our current Finance Minister is here, I'd like to make some inquiries about tourism and how much terrorism affects tourism, and what further arrangements must be made. As of November 2015 in particular, terrorism began to hit the trade shop on Istiklal Street, and the shutters started to land one by one, and then the closed trades began to enter a heavy crisis. Close-up is one of the oldest shopping malls in the world, and as it is known, especially in the last year, terrorism has affected tourism that has been destroying our country in a negative way, but everywhere, it has caused a deeper crisis in the closed-door market. You know, the most important source of the Istanbul Closed Business was tourists who came in with croissant ships. What is decisive at this point is to repeat the number of tourists that come with these ships. 382 ships arrived in 2012, 46,920 tourists arrived; 3881 ships arrived in 2013, 78,505; 317 ships arrived in 2014, 74,941; 345 ships arrived in 2015, 100,734 -- that's for Istanbul. In the first nine months of 2016, he fell to 45 ships, so there was a 60 percent decline in the number of tourists. Of course, the National Movement Party for the prevention of terrorism will continue to provide all kinds of support, and we must continue to fight effectively. Maybe it's not possible to get tourists here in the short term, but what needs to be done... especially when it's taken care of, especially when business is good, is that the Closed Company is no longer able to afford 500,000 visitors. The 3,600 stores are closed by the eighth month, which is estimated to be up to 1,500 · Global Voices by the end of the year, in our talks with the tradesman there and in our findings. During the first eight months of 2016, the number of tourists was generally reduced by around 30 per cent. The number of jewelers, for example, has fallen from 1,000 to 600. Our closed-door tradesman may go through these difficult days, but the measures taken by the government are especially important here. I'd like to make an important announcement. The roads above the closed road are the main road and in front of the tradesman as an intermediary road. It is requested by the municipality to occupy. If the city officials who come every two days are not given to the occupation, we will close your seat or pack your things. They say, "Get your things." I'll tell the Minister from here. This is very important to us, especially if we are focused on it, and we are contributing to the survival of our pupil, the Closed Trade. In the meantime, I'd like to give our Minister of Family and Social Policy an update on both matters, and I'd like to ask you a question. On 16/12/2015, I gave the Minister of Family and Social Policy a motion to ask -- the former Minister -- how much control and how much training are those who work in child care in your ministry? In response, nursing staff serving child care and children's homes, nursing and emergency medical technicians at health and vocational high schools, said they had graduated from the children's development department of girls' vocational upper secondary schools, but there are still few of them in the day care centres, and there are even few of them, even elementary school graduates, people who are not competent. Interesting methods are being used. And that has to be determined. Since I'm out of time, I'll leave the next subject to my next speech. Again, I salute the Veterans' Council.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0327par0802	Thank you, Your Grace. Congressmans, the talks on the ninth round are complete. Now, let's move on to the QA section. We're 20 minutes out. As you know, ten minutes of this time belongs to the questions, the other ten minutes to the answers. I'm going to read the lawmakers who've been in the system before, in order, and I'm going to promise. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0328par0808	Thank you, Mr. President. My question will be to the Minister of Finance. There was a windstorm in Mersin today. The greenhouses have been destroyed in many districts of Mersin, and especially in Bozyaz. Don is expected tonight, too. The farmer has suffered a serious loss. In this regard, I expect you to act in the presence of your Ministry and the district agricultural directorate and the County Agriculture Directorate to immediately take over the problems of our farmers and delay our farmers' payments from now on. Second: Again, there are serious delays in the sale of treasury land and 2/B land across Mersin. Prices are high, and because of the height of these prices, the majority of people in cities such as Tarosus Gulk, Erdemli Sarıkaya, Silifke Narıkuyu and Yeşilovacık can't buy at high prices, even though they apply. We're waiting here for an update. In addition, because of the Karmuklu tourism district, the rights of the people here have been terminated, and the property of the people has been declared a tourist zone. I'm also looking forward to resolving the victimhood here, and I'm offering my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0329par0813	Thank you. Mr. Seğum instead of Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0330par0815	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Customs and Trade: Hatay is the largest filter manufacturer in Turkey. The biggest expense in the filter industry is the raw material from abroad. Do you intend to make any reductions and exemptions in the customs tax on the raw substance? Also, do you plan to encourage and support domestic companies to produce raw materials? Again, close are the gates of the Cilveg and Yayladak, which are found in Hatay. Will you have a study of the opening of the Crossroad Gate, which does not have a security problem in order to revive the transport and export sector? I'd like to ask Mr. Finance Minister: because Hatay is a border zone and because of the Syrian war, businesses and businessmen are having a very difficult time accessing bank loans. Do you plan to do any work in order to address the difficulties caused by the purchase of loans to include businesses whose business record is broken?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0331par0819	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0332par0820	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Family and Social Policy: Even though the action plan was in effect under the Roma Strategy Document, no resources were left in the 2017 budget. The fact that no resources have been left except for European Union-backed projects and funds has once again demonstrated the government's view of our Roma citizens and all of our citizens' expectations and problems at a solution point. Mr. Secretary, how are you going to carry out an action plan against the problems of our Roma citizens without a budget? Again, I'm going to ask the Minister of Family and Social Policy: is there an increase in sexist, separatist rhetoric and practices towards women, a serious problem in girls' education and early-age marriages, a rise in child abuse, a 70 percent of women in our country are still out of employment on your agenda, a more comprehensive, permanent solution in your budget, in the short term? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0333par0824	Thank you. Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0334par0826	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Secretary of Customs and Trade. My first question is: Many companies continue to send advertising messages to consumers, although it has been banned from May 2015. Do you do criminal transactions on these companies? My second question: In your response to the malls, you say that about 40 shopping malls will be opened by the end of 2018. The tradesman is devastated, but the mall is still opening. Do these malls really need them? My third question: Kars, Ardahan, do you intend to open the Armenian Border Gate to revive the economy in the name of the hard tradesmen in the Iğdır region?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0335par0831	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0336par0832	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Finance Minister, our citizens are suffering 2/B. Because of high rail prices, our citizens couldn't buy their land. Even if those who had applied before paid their first installments, they were unable to pay the next installments. Again, the treasure fields within the city and the mujavir area are not sold within 2/B. You said, our citizens are therefore facing very high wage fees. This year's tourism season has been very bad in our region, and our farmers have been miserable. Do you intend to bring our farmers and tourists to a reasonable level? Mr. Minister of Family and Social Policy, there are rumors in the public that there are differences between July 15th martyrs and veterans and the rights paid to the martyrs and veterans of terror. Is there such a difference? If so, can you digest this situation? Do you think you can make up for this difference? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0337par0838	Thank you. Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0338par0840	Miss Bihlun will ask.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0337par0841	We promise according to those who have already entered the system. Well, according to my list, I mean, according to the list that was made when I opened the merger. It is all right if you give your say to Tamaygil.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0338par0843	Yeah, I did, I did.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0337par0844	Here you go, Mr. Tamayligil.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0339par0845	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to our Minister of Customs and Trade. Earlier this year, I asked you for some information about the Infrastructory Financial Company, which was under bankruptcy about 15 years ago, and you said that the account, 21,294, had a debt of $114,000, give or take, $54m. There's been a liquidation process for about 15 years, and there's already over 20,000 victims. Besides, there was a process run by the liquidation board again, and maybe 50,000 people here, we'll get our money. They've agreed to all kinds of checks, but so far, none of them have ever collected what they're going to get properly. It's really important. I wanted to know what the final figures and debts were for today's liquidation of the Infractions Financial.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0337par0847	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0340par0849	My question to Mr. Finance Minister is that the problems of seasonal workers who work at various institutions such as TECHNUR, forest business, highways, the Ministry of Agriculture are in the middle. They are stuck at the six-month border in Law 5620, and they can't get a staff at the institution where they work for 179 days. Minister, if these workers were to start working at the age of 25, how many years would it take for them to retire, have you ever calculated? Given the fact that they work 179 days a year, it takes sixty-two years to fill a 7.200 bonus day. Is there any study of the four-month-old seasonal workers to be placed in position? What is the sum of seasonal workers employed like this in public? Will you arrange for the solution to the problem of these workers? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0341par0852	Thank you. Mr. Tor...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0342par0854	Mr. Secretary, it is essential that the regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance provide electricity and natural gas needs by tender, provided they are free consumers of electronic telecommunications services, as well as by the Public Contraction Act No.4734. According to this, my first question is: What is the financial cost of spending over the past three years for electronic communications services, electricity and gas purchases in your ministry's central and related institutions and institutions? How much of the expenses made for these services were made by tender, and how much by direct purchase? My third question is: Is regular inspection of the issues involved in your ministry being carried out? Is there a process that has been done so far about officers who have failed to comply with this sentence? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0343par0859	Thank you. Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0344par0861	Mr. Minister of Family and Social Policy, you weren't there when I spoke. I showed you this particular book on the stand, Mr. Secretary. It's a book that Kütahya Town Hall distributes to newlywed couples. I want you to know. Of course, there's a lot we can't say, but this book is full of sexual fantasies from beginning to end. If a woman sees a second-rate woman, humiliates her, even if she doesn't follow these procedures, the child will be a fool. (In working life, if she sees a man more handsome than her husband, her heart will slip to her, her knee will be broken.) And now I look around us, and we're sitting among a lot of colored men. So, this book is a book that says that when we go home, we deserve a beating from our husband. I'll be damned. I said a lot on the stand, but you weren't there. In this regard, Mr. Speaker said, "I will follow." But please, I ask you, it's a very immoral book. In fact, it's a book about the wedding night of Lord Ali and the Lord Fatma. Please do what you have to do with it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0343par0862	Thank you, Mr. Liberty. And finally, Mr. lion...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0345par0864	I'm asking the ministers: 1) When managing the 2017 budget, do you intend to bring a record pardon for our tradesman and trader? 2) Will you make up the difference between the SEC and the BUG-KUR account for the number of bonus days in 4,000 days? 3) Will you bring a five-year tax deduction to the new business owner? 4) Are you going to make the tradesman's expenses, such as companies, like rent and vehicles, fall from tax? 5) Do you consider a way to reduce bureaucracy during the opening and closing of businesses? 6) Our shop is currently paying taxes and tuition for 22 pens. Do you think this burden should be lightened, calculated, simplified? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0346par0872	Mr. Agbal, are you going to answer first? Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0347par0874	Mr. President, thank you. First, of course, because of the disaster in Mersin, our farmers have been damaged. I wish for each one of them to get well first, and as a state, you informed them about the healing of the wounds, but surely our government is making the necessary efforts. And I'm also going to make a maximum contribution to whatever we can by meeting with concerned friends. You can be sure of that. I just want to say good-bye to all our farmers again. Second: Regarding 2/B practices in Mersin, our deputy mentioned a number of hesitant issues. In that regard, first, of course, it would not be right to evaluate the application in Mersin alone without giving general information about 2/B applications. You know, a comprehensive law has been passed by our government, including places that have become gangrene and have been known as 2/B land in public for years, and it has been arranged that the Tapu Kadastro General Directorate will first identify those appointed as rightful owners and then determine the value of the assets of those who belong to the Treasury Ministry. As Finance Ministry, from the first time he came out of this law, we've assessed the cost of more than 800,000 relocations. You know, the 2/B law has brought important discounts as it allows for sale. Although there has been a cost assessment of the assets owned by the rightful owners, we as a state have also made significant discounts, which I think, in advance of 50 per cent or even in advance, to 36 per cent, so instead of 100 per cent, we've also made significant discounts to pay $36 per cent. During the Rayic price assessments, we formed special working groups in each province, special teams within the bookkeeping system, and we focused on the most consistentness of the track price assessments created here. So there's got to be price consistency between the neighborhoods, there's got to be price consistency between the villages. In fact, we've worked together to determine the right approach to the costs of two villages -- even the border of two counties -- due to separate bookkeeping -- and look, so far we've sold 450,000 to about 680,000 citizens under the Law 2/B. So we've done all of this within this price detection system that I'm referring to. From time to time, there were objections, from time to time we received reports that the prices were inconsistencies, we received complaints, and each time we carefully studied these hearings and these complaints in their place. In that respect, rest assured, I mean, that's what you're saying.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0348par0878	Look at the number of applications and sales in these areas.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0347par0879	Sure. I mean, in all the provinces, it's...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0348par0880	The majority hasn't been sold. All Sarikaya is standing, not sold.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0347par0881	Here, in all the provinces, when there's a complaint about finding a price in any way, we're looking at it meticulously. I know that we've seen these kinds of assessments in the application period, and we've actually seen these kinds of requests, sometimes because of lack of information, but every complaint, every complaint, every complaint is important to us. I will certainly give instructions to my friends in this regard, and we will complete this arrangement on 2/B. You know, when the 2/B law first came out, we did these operations on the already heavily stocked relocations, but since the work of the forest cadastro and the Tapu Kadastro continues, this is part of the work in our provinces. For him, we have an important experience as the Ministry of 2/B, and we're really sensitive about finding the price. As a matter of fact, we've had citizens who haven't applied to 2/B law, and we've just earned them. We've had citizens who have applied, who haven't paid their down payment or payment, and we've allowed our citizens to return to the system in case they pay again. Here we will certainly consider this matter concerning Mersin, and if there are problems, we will go on to him. As for the loss of our citizens due to the disaster in Mersin, we will take the necessary steps, again. Second, assessments of the Reconstruction Law have been made. I've just stated on the stand that Law number 6736 has given our citizens the opportunity to restructure their current debt with very important means. Our citizens have shown great respect for the law, and we've received too many applications for no period of time, and we've received about 8.5 million applications. They've got tax debts, traffic fine debts, other amme debts. And the deadline that we extended to November 30th was completed, and then we got the down payment.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0349par0885	The Minister of Finance used all the time.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0347par0886	And so far, we've made a collection of over $12 billion. I'd like to warn our citizens in particular...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0349par0888	Madam Secretary, let the other ministers respond.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0347par0889	But I have to keep the questions in check.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0349par0890	But the other ministers won't be able to answer.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0347par0891	But Mr. President has given me his word, and I will answer all the questions our representatives have asked me.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0349par0892	No, no, I accept that, but won't the others?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0350par0893	Mr. President, there's no more time.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0347par0894	Now, part of our citizens couldn't pay their down payment in November. So, some of our citizens said, "That's right, last minute, I couldn't pay. Did the fact that I couldn't pay for it in November, even though I had chosen to pay for it, deprive me of the right to restructure? In particular, I would like to say to our citizens that if in December our citizens -- I'm talking about a citizen who has chosen the option to pay -- they will be able to benefit from restructuring, especially if they do pay off the interest reduced according to the Reconstruction Act. Thank you, Mr. President, I give you my regards.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0351par0897	Members of parliament, it is in its own initiative to save ministers on the amount of time set aside for the answer, and there is no interference in that. Who's going to talk now?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0352par0899	Mr. President, two minutes to go, two ministers. I think if you give the ministers two more minutes, at least our friends' questions will be answered.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0351par0900	If they can't answer enough and demand it, of course I will.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0352par0901	Our Finance Minister didn't leave anything for them, but...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0351par0902	Mr. Tüfenkci, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0353par0903	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll give you a quick answer.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0354par0905	We're giving trillions to our ministers, and we're not giving them two minutes? Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0353par0906	The shop is yours, thanks to you. Now, despite being banned in May 2015, what do you do about unwanted messages? The number of complaints against him is 225 as of 16/11/2016. It's 972. In response to these complaints, a fine of 7 billion 109 million euros and 422 euros was fined. In this case, about 25 per cent of more than 200,000 complaints have been concluded, but we need to speed it up. Let me put it this way. Again, can we do something at the point of opening the door by expressing that our tradesmen's situation at Kars Iğdır point is not good? (especially at the point of opening the door?) We also have a study of trade centers and border trading centers there. If we get a positive result, we'll create these border trade centers. The mall is a fact of the world and a fact of Turkey. In the face of the malls, we take the necessary steps at the point where we don't crush the tradesmen, where they're protected from crushing competition, but the AVMs know that with demand... now the AVMs are turning into street malls, and some of them are shutting down on their own. This is something that can be resolved within market balances. And you guys don't want us involved in that. A friend of ours asked about Hatay as part of the Cilve-Eye Border Gate. Do you plan to open or open our crossroad door? The opposite side of the plateau Gate is in the territory of the Syrian regime. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Time's up, I'll answer in writing.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0355par0913	Mr. President, I...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0356par0914	Mr. Rock, let's give you two minutes, because there are questions. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0355par0916	The Roma Strategy Action Plan asked if he had a share of the budget, Mr. Özdemir. This action plan is run by our General Directorate of Family and Community Services, and its budget is below the budget of this directorate. At the same time, this is a project that we share with the EU project. Here is an EU project worth 10.5m euros. The grant from our budget -- our budget for the year 2017 -- is under the budget of $1,591,000, our General Directorate for Family and Community Services. In our action plan, many ministries also have separate responsibilities. Mr. Özdemir asked her a question about discrimination. Our budget for women's services has risen from 187.5 million liras to about 204 million dollars, and there is a proportional increase of 9 per cent. As the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, we absolutely deny criticism that we don't care enough about women, that she is ignored, that her status is not developed. In our understanding, the most powerful subject of powerful civilizations is a woman, and the development of a society without women is impossible. In addition to many legislatures we conducted during the EC PARTY administrations, there were significant distances in implementation. We firmly reject discrimination against women, violence against women, and we act on the principle of zero tolerance against violence in this regard, and I want to underline that. But at the same time, a woman is a mother, a wife. And in that sense, with the support of the woman, the support of the family, we've already supported her. I'd like to point out that the reviews here are wrong, too. And when we support our child, we support our woman. We pay women when we're making conditional cash transfers, and we give them more money to girls, and we give them more to women, and I want to underline that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll also answer other questions in writing.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit05spe0357par0920	Okay, thank you. Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the ninth round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy shall take part in the central management budget in 2017: Those who don't... Sustained. 24) THE FAMILY AND SOCIAL POLICY 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 489,179.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 147,999,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 23.666.180,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 24.303.358,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2015 be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 18,108,968,048,34 Budget Expenses 18,047,190,163,75 Emancipation Expenses 167,242,50 Canceled Fund 61,641,242,90 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 303,884,19 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy has been adopted as part of the central management account for 2015. The Ministry of Customs and Trade for the Central Management budget of 2017, I submit to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 31) GROUP AND TRAVEL LOOK 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 932,075,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 77.264,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 121,981,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 1,131,320.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Customs and Trade was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. The Ministry of Customs and Trade for Central Management of 2015, I submit to your votes that the final account be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total grant 909,936,566.00 Budget Expenses 821.482.469.29 The grant goes to 14.547.10 Canceled Fund 88,468,643,81 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Customs and Commerce of the Central Administration of 2015 has been adopted into parts of its final account. I'd like to submit to your votes that the competition institution will be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: Those who don't... Sustained. 42.07) RICOBET PRODUCTION 1) Competitiveness Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 41.096,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 36,904,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 78,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2.016,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 75,984,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 78,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The competition was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Competitive Association's Central Management Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 71,350,000.00 Budget Expenses 50.929.869.09 Canceled Fund 20.420.130,91 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 65,500,000.00 Collection 62,091,254,72 Ret and returns 240,083,35 Net Collection 61,851,171,37 (B) Those who accept the ruler... those who don't... are accepted. The Competitive Association of Competitive Affairs of 2015 has been adopted into parts of its final account. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Finance shall take part in the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 104,463,169.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 203,534,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 2.472.808,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 2,352,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 64,549,874,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 171.691.737,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the budget for central management were adopted in 2017. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Ministry of Finance for Central Management of 2015 will take part in the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 133,618,894,707,77 Budget Expenses 133.341.152.133.99 Cancelled Grant 277,742,573,78 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 7.251.100.00 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Finance of the Central Government of 2015 has been adopted into parts of its final account. I would like to submit to your votes that the chairman of the IRS will be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: Those who don't... Sustained. 12.76) RETURN PRESIDENT 1) Chairman of the IRS 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 3.039.826,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4,800,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 3,044.626,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the IRS was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. I'd like to submit to your votes that the central management account of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Central Management Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 2,542.208.631.00 Budget Expenses 2,471,875,339,74 Canceled Fund 70,333,291,26 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairman of the IRS has been accepted into parts of the central administration's final account in 2015. I submit to your votes that the public tenders will be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.06) KAMU IHHALE BUILDING 1) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 15,003,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 124.997,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 140,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 80,049,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 59,950.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 140,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Government account of 2015 will be transferred to its chapters: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) Public Contractorship 2015 Central Management Terminate Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 130,000,000.00 Budget Expenses 120.967.787.12 Canceled Fund 9.032.212.88 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 130,000,000.00 Collection 145,334,514,05 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Departments of the central management account of 2015 have been adopted. The President of the Privatisation Administration in 2017, I submit to your votes that the central management budget will be transferred into the chapters: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.35) THE PRESIDENT OF PRISON 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 16.292,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 656,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 14.236,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 31.184,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 440,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 30,754,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 31.184,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Privatisation Administration was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. The President of the Privatisation Administration of 2015, I would like to submit to your votes to the chapters of the central management account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Privatisation Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 26.305.100.00 Budget Expenses 24,713,357,67 Canceled Fund 1.591.742.33 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 24.587,000.00 Collection 26.424.995,62 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The President of the Privatisation Administration of 2015 is considered part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Foundation shall be taken into the sections of the central management budget in 2017: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 42.10) PRODUCTION OF CAMU, MUHASEBE AND EXPERIENCE STANDARTS 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 550,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 38,185,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 38,725,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4,250,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Earnings With Donations and Aids 30,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,475,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 38.725,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Accountability Accounting, Accounting and Control Standards Foundation for 2015 will take part in the final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 33.560.000.00 Budget Expenses 20.976.174.75 Canceled allowance 12.583.825.25 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 33.650,000.00 Collection 23.907.569.12 Refuge and Returns 17308,60 Net Collection 23.890.260.52 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Office of Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards is considered part of the central management account of 2015. Members of parliament, therefore the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the 9th round have been accepted. I wish them well. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0357par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 40th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Members of parliament, with the completion of talks on the ninth round, talks have been completed with the budgets of the ministry and relevant institutions, which include Article 2 of the 2017 Centre Management Budget Bill and Articles 1 of the 2015 Central Management Computation Act, and its final accounts and financing. In accordance with the programme, we will now discuss and vote on the provisions of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act, respectively. After I have re-read the first article on the cost budget of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act, I will submit it to your votes. DIVORCE PRODUCTION OF THE CENTER OF 2017 Expenses, Arrives, Financing and Balance MADDE 1 - (1) Added to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the tablet marked "A" (a); 634,176,488,900 Turkish liras for public administrations under the general budget on the ruler number I B) (II) private budgetary administrations include 79,433,539.000 Turkish liras, C) (III) The Turkish Lira of 4,216,853. The grant is granted. Now, I submit the 1st article to your votes, along with the previously accepted ruler: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm rereading Article 2 of the income budget: MADDE 2 - (1) Influences: As shown in the tablet marked "B," it is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 586,696,152,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations' incomes are 9.777,075,350 Turkish liras, totaling 80,063,288,250 Turkish liras, including 70,286,212,900 Turkish Lira Treasury benefits, and a total of 80,063,288,250 Turkish liras. C) (III) A total of 4,216,853,000 Turkish liras, totaling 4,216,853 Turkish liras, including 4,186,853,000 Turkish liras in the regulator and auditory institutions on the table. is estimated to be. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table No. 5018 (II), as shown in these laws (F), has been estimated as 49,222,000 Turkish liras. Now, I'm going to make you read the chapters of the ruler, which is bound to the 2nd article, and I'm going to put them to your separate votes: CODE OPENING PRODUCTION RETURN OF 2017 01 Taxes 564,746,658,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 17.190.016,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 1,490,238,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 41,348,911,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Savings 15,409,493,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. $08 Collection 1,660,409.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM BUILDING 641,845,725,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Ret and Returns ( - ) 55,149,573.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. NET BUILDING 586.696.152,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit the 2nd article to your votes, along with the extra ruler accepted: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0358par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we now face a new law freak every day. On the afternoon flight to Elaziğ, Ankara MP Alican Önlü Elazığ. Due to bad weather conditions, the plane returns to Ankara and is taken into custody on its return as a meaningless and bad police officer at Ankara Airport. With our friend in custody right now, before his phone is confiscated, which, as a lawyer in force, you know as well as I do how a congressman's personal belongings are confiscated. Our congressman wants a document on his detention, because he says he has more than one complaint about himself, and we won't report any documents, we'll just take you. He's being treated like that. Our MP, Alican Önlü, is now in custody. Let's just say that we're dealing with a ruling mentality that is trying to solve all the problems in the country with antidemocratic orientations facing the HDP. So we've said it over and over again, and we've said it again, and we need to know that even though it's been tried to explain it with words like independent judgment, we're in a country where justice, justice, the distribution of law is dealt with by violence, and we're in reality, and let's say that if economic indicators are to be improved, if the country is to be democratized, we're here with all our friends, and we're ready to be taken without any of our MPs.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0359par0055	Tell them to come and get it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0358par0056	Let them come and get it from here and...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0360par0058	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0358par0060	And let me put it this way, at least by keeping quiet, that's what makes this scale. This is the measurement, this is the application, and this is becoming a systematic state. I'd like to point out that now in this country, the heel of the judiciary, the law, the safety of public safety has been broken, and it's been broken by this power, it's been politicized. Now, the cantar is broken, and one day those who break this cantar's tunes will be judged in the same scale that's broken. We strongly condemn and reject this practice. No way... if this is being developed as some sort of receding practice for our party, I'm saying it's a big mistake. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0361par0065	Mr. Yıldırım, wasn't there any information regarding which statement Önlü was taken into custody?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0362par0066	No.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0358par0067	No documents were shown.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0361par0068	I'll take care of it when we take a break. I'm reading the third article: The difference between the sum of the first part of Article 3-1 (a) of Article 1 (a) and the sum of estimated incomes (a) in the first part of Article 2 (a) is met with clear debt. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 3, Samsun MP Erhan Usta will speak. Master, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0363par0080	Thank you. Mr. President, on December 12, 2016, the Turkish Statistical Agency made a revision of national accounts in the national revenue series. I'm going to try to evaluate that in this article. In fact, on December 9th, I spoke in the Ministry of Development budget, where perhaps it would be more appropriate to do so, but then we'll only be able to do it now because there's no such revision. Now, of course, it is appropriate, appropriate, and even necessary to revisit inter-national income accounts. There are routine updates, these are small updates, and they are done in future data right after data is released. And there are more extensive revisions like this. In this revision, TÜİK said it had done this revision in line with the National System of Accounts and with the European System of Accounts. The revision also revised supply and use tables in 2012. It was a good thing, because it was a need, and it was too late. In 2002, a number of calculations were being done according to the input-output. It has now been updated to 2012. They said it was the integration of some administrative records, and it was said that the accounts were being updated. Here, a national income series of revenues was last in 2006. It's also appropriate that this has been updated. We appreciate that, too. Of course, there are separate reviews and reviews on the details. Other than that, there were not many details of savings in Turkey. These details were made by this series. That's the good part again. Now, what's done? What has been done is that national income figures have been changed in the total income of Turkey, and in parallel with this, per capita income, an increase has been made. The numbers of 2015 were increased 19.7 per cent year-on-year, so whatever the national income in the previous series was, 19.7 per cent was increased for 2015. In 2015, the increase here was around $335 billion, so with the old money, $335 quadrillion in income in 2015 -- sometimes they say, in quotes, in one night -- 335 quadrillion dollars in one night. Of course, here's the odd thing: the first year of the national income revision was 1998. So 1998 and 2015 have revised the first two quarters of 2016, not saying them because it's a quarter; it's been revised from 1998 to 2015. The revision in 1998 increased 2.4 per cent, so 1998, national income, whatever the old national income was, 2.4 per cent. For a long time after that, there was always an increase around 2-3 such as this, but all of a sudden, after 2010, there was an increase of over 10 percent, and there was something strange about it. Now, in parallel with this, each individual came in one night in 2015 -- let's put it that way -- up about 2,000 dollars. Here's the odd thing: for example, there's an increase in national income in 1998, only $104, but in 2015 or 2016 there's an increase in around $2,000 -- $1,750 for 2015. Now the other thing is, there's a lot of astronomical changes in growth, in growth, in growth, in growth that's been explained earlier, on a year-on-year, not just on a national income level, but on an absolute number of revenues per person. So this is interesting, for example, from 1998 to 2010, and the difference between the old-explained data and the newly explained data is only 0.1. So on the 0.1 average, on the average of ten years, there was a change year-on-year. These are very reasonable changes, but after 2010, the increase in growth year-on-year growth is 2.7 year-on-year. There are some years here, and there are even over 100 percent increase. Now, in 2012, our previous growth rate was 2.1 per cent, and this has now been announced as 4.8 per cent in the new series. For example, the growth of national income in 2013 was 4.2 per cent in the previous series; this was revised to 8.5 per cent. I mean, now, of course, I want to ask you right now... 2013 is very fresh in all of our memories. So, turn it on, look at the Internet, and even 4.2 per cent of the growth in 2013 is much more than market projections, and now it's been revised to 4.2 per cent. These are not revisions of any kind that can be understood in any way. Especially here, of course, in the first ten years of this period from 1998 to 2015, it's very interesting and technically there's not a lot of explanation for that. Now, once the past is broken, the series is broken. From now on, we can't compare the series to the one before 1998, since there's a serious revision here in the past. But, even in this series, there's a break in itself, a break in the series, so there's something very critical about that. Look, the past is very different from the revisions. For example, the last revision was in 2007. There was a very limited change between the beginning of the series and the end of the year, where the average income was always increased by about 30 percent, but there was no break between the beginning and the end of the series. So, for example, in the first year, 34 percent was increased, 1998 was the first year, 2006 was the last year, where 31.6 percent was increased in the figures. But there's a ten-fold difference here from 2 percent to 18 percent to 19.7% to 20 percent; it's not understandable. Now, it's the most basic thing to switch to the National Accounting System here. I looked at the ministers' statements, for example, Mr. Simsek says: "The National Accounts System has been revised, the new system has been revised." Now, the TÜİK is holding a press conference, and he's giving a statement at the press conference, so you're looking at the statement, so this is the 2012 growth growth growth growth growth from transition to ESA and SNA. So there's a growth of about 10.8 per cent, about 11 per cent national income in that year, only 0.7 per cent of it, not even 1 point, but not one of 11 points, which is said as the basis for revision in terms of national computation. So there's no way for anyone to present this revision to the international accounts because we made it up, because we switched to the new account system. Now, there's a year-on-year crisis here once, like 2009. This is extremely wrong, it's a year of crisis in 2009 with a 4.7 percent reduction, so there's only one revision. 2009, one of the main reasons for those sudden jumps after 2010 is that the year 2009 crisis was taken as a base year. Although we use the 2012 supply use tables, this is technically not very valid. Now, it's said that we've integrated in general government accounts, so we've integrated government accounts into new accounts here. There's no revision in government accounts, friends in government accounts, in the last decade. So today's state accounts are basically what's going on in 2006, after 2007, where there's no serious revision, small revisions can be done all the time. So this argument is going down, too. Now, the general state data is being corrected at the same time, but there's still, look, there's still a difference between the medium-term programme and all the government documents, the number of budgetary budgets, the general state figure, and the general state figure given by TÜİK (TİK) now, in terms of spending for 2015, as well as 27 billion lira. So even after this revision, there's actually a discrepancy between the government's accounts. Now, it's a very clear revision that's been rushed once in a while. When you say it was rushed, maybe it should have been done before that, but with a sudden rush... There's never been any discussion of the side of the business. For example, one of the places to talk about is the Central Bank, one of the Treasury Undersecretary, one of the State Planning Agency, one of the Development Ministry, and especially the Ministry of Development. If not in the sense of consultation, TIC is autonomous, not in the sense of interfering with the work of an autonomous institution, but in the sense of consultation, it has never been discussed here. For example, TÜİK and DPT are co-operating a series of national incomes from 1948-1972. I mean, what I said was perfectly normal, and it had to be. It's not just with them, it's with the sector committees, and it's not with the sector committees. Thus, something like this has been done without being discussed with the relevant parties. So you're looking for results. I don't think any of these results have been evaluated by my side of the issue, or, for example, what that would mean as economics. Now, on the other hand, you're looking at, for example, the other differences in 2012: 11 percent of the difference -- there was an increase of 11 percent -- 75 percent of the difference in the other article. So they explain 25 percent of the 9th article, and they try to explain 75 percent of it in a clause that means the other one. Which is extremely unsatisfactory. I'll continue my assessment of this later. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0364par0099	Thank you, Mr. Master. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Adana MP Aydın Külpehlivan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Bellapehlivan.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0365par0103	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group over Article 3 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill. The public and private sector debt in our country continued to increase between 2003 and 16 years. Today, Turkey's debt to pay in short term is $167 billion, and its need for foreign financing is over $200 billion per year. In 2003, total household debt was $13 billion, while in the first quarter of 2016, $441 billion was found. Turkey's growth in financial and financial deficits does not create jobs, and therefore unemployment is increasing. In 2002 the unemployment rate rose to 11.3, as of the eighth month of 2016. The unemployment has increased, becoming a non-producing, consuming society. So far, a lot of institutions and organizations have been sold to manage the economy and to get the hot money. There's more or less nothing left that hasn't been sold. I think it's time for airports and bridges. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course it's all numbers, but I'm going to put these numbers aside, and I'd like to address the current issues. There's no balance left in Turkey, let alone the economy. The economy in the country is getting worse and worse and worse. Bomb attacks continue in many parts of the home, our people are anxious, people are desperate, unemployed, hungry, our women and children cannot be protected. In particular, the attacks on our women have now reached the extent of violence. In modern-day Turkey, a woman is being kicked for wearing shorts, and a pregnant woman can be attacked by a man because she works out in the park. Because everything women do in this country is made by someone who turns them on. Let's see what happens to people in our country, what happens to them. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to address the issue of education that has become a major problem in our country. The 15th year of this power has been ruled by a government that has ruled this country alone for 14 years, and has changed six national education ministers. However, there are still very serious problems. For example, we have over 400,000 teachers who can't be assigned. Our children study for many years to become teachers, finish teacher school, then get a formification certificate, and then they are put to a written test so that they can teach again, which is based on the scores. Right now this one's been cut off, like an interview or something. Whether it's as high as he wants, if there's ulterior motives in the interview, he's not allowed to drop the scores, he's being severely wronged. These need to be repaired immediately. This system is wrong, the interview must be removed. Those friends of ours deserve to be teachers. They must be placed according to their scores. (CHP) Almost as if children who are not allies do their best not to become teachers, the current government is doing its best, applying different formulas. Also, why do you take the staff of guidance counselors in kindergarten? Don't children of that age need guidance counselors? You said the system of transport education, you put five or six villages together, you brought them together, the children will study at a school, they'll get better education. You said, "Well, thank you, it's true." However, this year there was no transport training. The kids started school, but they couldn't find a ride to school, guys. Now, there's a lot of talk about dorms, the number of beds, a lot of dorms, but the truth is that only 14 percent of our students can stay in public dorms, that's the truth. Because the state can't solve the housing problem, children are thrown into the lap of congregations that run private homes and private dorms, and eventually a part of those children can become members of the terrorist organization. As a matter of fact, we've been through this painfully recently. The dorms must be made by the state, run by the state, and the parents must put their children in these homes in peace. Last Saturday in Istanbul, after the Beşiktas match, we saw once again the ugly face of terror in an attack on our police and citizens. From here, I ask God's mercy once again to our police and citizens who were killed in a terrorist attack, and to our wounded citizens for immediate healing. After the explosion in Istanbul, citizens had serious problems with terrorism, and they called us about it. I'd like to share a citizen's message with you, exactly what he said, Mr. Congressman, is that you bring the weed to Parliament at jet speed, you make it legal. Repeat your proposals regarding terrorism, aiding and abetting, make tougher, deterrent laws and prevent that. Let's go back a little bit. Let's go back a little bit. In 2002, terror was almost zero, unfortunately, we had seven martyrs that year, but in the following years, the number of martyrs always increased, and in 2003 we started with 94, and in 2008 we gave 222 martyrs. So in six years, our number of martyrs has risen to 966. In 2009, when the so-called solution process was discussed, we gave 80 martyrs, which was called less martyrs at the time. In 2009, an organization was invited from abroad to Turkey with its weapons and flags on the basis of the solution process, entered the dorm in convoys, the tent courts were established, cleared, released, and then settled in the area. However, the growth, development, and actions of this organization were ignored, the commanders and governors who wanted to intervene were prevented, and they were told not to touch. Now, this terrorist organization has been a pain in the ass in this country. I want to talk about a second organization. In 2014, the building, described by Mr Ahmet Davutoglu, who later became Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs, as a few angry Sunni youth, now unfortunately, has seized very serious territory in Syria, Iraq and Syria, and has launched attacks on our soldiers in Syria, and has begun to martyr them. Another organisation, once ruled this country hand-in-hand, arm-in-hand, and now declared a traitor terrorist organization. I mean, the governor, the Chief Constable, the governor, the judge, the judge, the judge, the general, the colonel, the major, a group of people who have the strength to take a hit and take off. Now, in all of these, the power almost throws the ball to other parties. Guys, you're the government, you're the government, you're the government, you're the government, if you're trying to move in with or tolerate these organizations in this way, and if you're trying to take them somewhere, that's where we're at right now. You all, all of you, have your plagues on these matters. I'm afraid we're giving these martyrs because they can't fully perform their current power mission. Next week's the anniversary of December 17th and 25th, we said we wouldn't forget this day. On December 17th and 25th, all documents reveal that the country was robbed with its documents and that the ministers were involved in theft and corruption. It was alleged to have been staged by the police, but after a while they were collected with interest by the attorneys of the current ministers. You rejected this registered theft and corruption by voting that day and prevented these friends from being tried. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0366par0117	Thank you, Mr. Bellehlivan. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mardin MP Mithat Sancar, but I can't see... Are you going to make a statement, Mr. Lightning?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0367par0120	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0366par0121	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0367par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've just stated that a member of parliament has been taken into custody at the airport without a document being shown, without a reason. In a state of law, even in a state with a little bit of law, a policeman who wants to process an ordinary citizen on the road has to document his own identity and the grounds for processing, where there's a little bit of law. Again, while you've been working together for months, I'd like to present to the entire General Assembly the grounds for the arrest of our friend, Çağlar Demirel, when he was arrested yesterday. Look, he normally instructs the judicial police in law enforcement, but on the content of a police report, this MP has a suspicion of escape. I would also like to submit to the information of the entire Assembly that a member of parliament working in Parliament for 24 hours was arrested on suspicion of escape.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0368par0129	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0367par0130	Mr. President, since we're not going to talk, please allow me to finish my speech.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0368par0131	That's what I'm saying, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0367par0132	We're following a statement that these illegal methods have now become a daily operation in this country, and the government has probably taken a wrong turn, as it can create a prosperous, habitable democratic country from these practices. Let's put it this way: For four days, look at an attack that caused 44 deaths, a government that couldn't reveal its details, its background, its perpetrators, and its perpetrators, trying to free itself from its own political responsibility by turning to opposition from here. So let's just say that the Esenboğa Airport Police Department, where we're talking about our friend, says he's being taken to TEM, and our lawyer and deputy friends say he's not there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0368par0135	Here you go, one more minute.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0367par0136	So we're giving up today's General Assembly talks to find out the fate of this friend, this illegal, pirate-like, thug-like operation. And I suggest that you, as a lawman, put aside your position as Speaker of the House, take a break from the General Assembly and get a healthy piece of information about it, if you have any sensitivity. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0368par0138	Mr. Yıldırım, I was going to give you my word that you would object, but I would have already promised you after the first term.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0367par0139	Okay, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0369par0140	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0368par0141	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0369par0142	Mr. President, I don't want it to be polemic, but I have to say, we don't know exactly what the matter is, we don't know why the judge took it, we don't know why he invited it to the police.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0368par0143	No one knows, yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0369par0144	We don't know, there's a one-sided claim. But beyond that, the Deputy said that the government doesn't know who is responsible for the terrorist act where we have 44 martyrs, but the day after that, there's an organization called TAK, a structure in the city, a structure in the mountains, a structure in the Parliament... we've already stated about that. I'd like to state that the matter is well known. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0368par0146	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Alim Bronze speaking for himself. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0370par0154	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 3rd article of the central management budget in 2017. I salute your high council. Honourable lawmakers, this budget is a service-oriented, national-focused budget, one of the milestones in achieving their 2023 and 2053 goals without compromising fiscal discipline. Despite global fluctuations in Europe, despite the uncertainty of markets in the United States, Turkey's economy grew in the first half of 2016. As it is known, the actions of the terrorist organizations, which have meant the July 15 coup attempt of the traitor organization, the national unity and unity of the terrorist organization, have slowed this course. However, with final decisions and reforms followed, the economy began to act again in September. Due to reforms, property peace and tax consolidation, 2017 would be a year in Turkey where growth would be greater than the previous year, employment would increase, current deficit and debt burden would be reduced. With budgets since 2002, we have signed many reforms. During our rule, one of the most important of these reforms was no doubt social security reform. The institutions that operate under different names in the social security field were gathered under one roof and carried out a general health insurance policy and put all our citizens into social security. Again, in health, with reforms, we put our hospitals under one roof, and with general health insurance, we created major health reforms with family medicine practices. We've turned our hospitals into a five-star hotel comfort. We have made it very easy for our citizens and our people to receive the best health care and health care. Again, our government has performed important services on the health and safety of workers, implementing regulations. With an increase of 20 per cent at a minimum wage at a time, he has achieved an unprecedented increase in the world's economies. Again, in order to protect and strengthen the family, assistance was given to the first child at $300, $400, and $600 for the third child, so that both of our birth mothers could spend more time with their children and care for them more financially. Many laws and regulations have been adopted for our disabled, and in 2010, the positive discrimination of our disabled has been guaranteed on a constitutional level and has been put into practice to ensure that accessibility can be implemented in all areas. The 2017 budget also earmarked $5.8 billion for home care for disabled persons. We will continue to improve our capacity and services to achieve our goals of 2023, the 100th anniversary of our Republic, and to produce solutions to new social problems and risks. Despite wars, immigration and terrorism in our region, Turkey will continue to grow, continue to gain confidence on the international platform. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers accept the service of our fallen relatives and veterans with great honor, we claim the trust of our martyrs. In every breath we breathe freely in this land, our martyrs and veterans who pay for their lives and blood have the right. As long as this nation lives, neither the rights nor the blood of any martyr will remain on the ground. Dear friends, this land has seen many traitors, but it must be known that the Turkish nation has buried them all in history. Let the friendly enemy know that our independence, our homeland, is greater than our pain. They never got tired of being sneaky. We, too, will never cease to resist, to resist those who disturb our peace, never tire. On this occasion, I strongly condemn the bombings that took place in Istanbul on the evening of December 10th. I wish God's mercy to the martyrs we still feel in our hearts, the immediate healing of our wounded, the patience and the condolences of our beloved nation. Once again, I wish our budget would be a blessing, and I salute your high council and our mighty nation.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0371par0165	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. And Mr. Cube wants me to say thank you very much. Afyonkarahisar MP Burcu Koksal is the second speaker on behalf of him.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0372par0169	Mr. President, I have made a promise on Article 3 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act. I salute the General Assembly. To our fellow police officers and citizens who were killed in the traitorous attack on December 10th, I pray for God's mercy and immediate healing for the wounded. Yeah, we're discussing the budget here, but what's important is the public budget. Let's look at it: let's start with our police budget. You can't just play in the bleachers with words like that. I don't know if you care, but our cops work on heads in the chaos that you bring the country into, say, 60 to 84 hours a week, and you see a lot of 3,600 additional indicators for them. Stop this discrimination that is incompatible with justice and social law. Give them 3600 additional indicators. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Do you consider the budget of our unemployed citizens? We've reached the highest unemployment rate in our Republic history, 11.3%. We have 8 million unemployed in this country, along with those who have lost hope of finding a job and have not applied. Between 15 and 29 years of age, the number of young people in both education and working life is 5 million 339, and unfortunately, 3 million 800,000 of them are our women and our young girls. Every day on the field, everywhere I go, on the ringing phone, dozens of people say they're unemployed, they want a job. You put the country in this state, you condemned them to unemployment, and your conscience is clear? Another issue is sugarpancar, from Anatolia, from the livelihood of our farmers. Consider the budget of beet producers: Mazota increase, fertilizer increase. Is it justice or justice that the beet producer should sell beets at the same price two years in a row when all production costs are increasing? Oh, my God! The potato maker lost it. While waiting to profit from the potatoes, unfortunately, the worker had to leave his crops in the field because he didn't pay for them. Last summer, the potato was sold between 15 and 20 cents a pound from the field. Can you imagine, a piece of gum at the grocery store is 50 cents, but the manufacturer of 1 kilo of potatoes sold it for 15-20 cents. Thanks to you, the potato maker's 1 kilo of potatoes were sold in this country for less than the gum at the grocery store. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We've been screaming about milk producers' problems from these podiums for about a year now, but you've blocked your ears, you don't hear them. One sack of oaths went from $51 to $53, but the price of milk stays where it is. The tradesmen and the manufacturers are hurting. And then what happens? The shopkeeper closes his shop; the potato, beet producer doesn't plant beets, doesn't plant potatoes; the milk manufacturer cuts the milk cow; and then the joke Minister of Family and Social Policy appears and explains that the citizen is becoming poor. What does the Minister of Family and Social Policy say? In 2002, social aid and services were earmarked for $1 billion 376 million, while in 2016, we earmarked $35 billion. So what this stands for is that we have made the people poor. It says, "We have made the country miserable, we have made the people needy." I suppose you'll be the first in history to boast that he's made his country poor. Because of your economic policies in the country, the citizen is no longer able to repay or collect his debt. Look, last year's January-June, the amount of protesting bond at a level of $7 billion was 8.5 billion during the nine months of 2016, and the return check was up from $29.9 billion to 23.1 billion during January-border period of this year. People are in debt. The subcontractors that you have promised, and the staff you have not given the staff, the temps you ignored, the teachers who have been waiting for years, the paramedics, the engineers, the victims who are living in retirement, the victims are in this budget. The only solution to your policies is the Republican People's Party. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0373par0182	How much was the budget, how much was the budget?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0183	Mr. Rootal, thank you. Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0375par0185	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0186	Ma'am, did you have something to say?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0375par0187	Yes, I'd like a moment's notice of my position according to 60.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0188	Here, just a minute. Please complete in one minute.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0375par0192	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have just made a claim that we're getting poor when the secretary gives us the 2002-2016 figures. I want to make a promise because I specifically want my statement on the record. The increase in numbers is not about increasing our poverty limits. The number of poor people under 2 dollars has been reset in the last 14 years, from less than 4 dollars to 29 percent per thousand. The increase in budget is due to the requirement of the social state principle. Due to the change in paradigm since the Ministry of Family and Social Policy was established, due to the need for social government policy, the budget of social benefits has increased due to the increased diversity and the increase of pencils and diversity in service pens, and I want to make a record of that.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0193	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0376par0194	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0195	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0376par0196	There's bullying, and I want a say in it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0197	No hard feelings.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0376par0198	No, no, about my speech...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0199	Mr. Rootsal, there is an explanation.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0376par0200	I have to make a statement about my speech.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0201	Look, there's an explanation.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0376par0202	No, I don't...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0203	Mr. Rootsal, allow me to admire it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0377par0204	Is he a member of the government, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0205	Please take your seat, no teasing.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0377par0206	A member of the government?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0207	I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0377par0208	The government responds, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy responds.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0209	Please tell me what you have to say in a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0377par0210	Then let's ask every speaker for an answer.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0211	Please enter a system first.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0378par0212	Don't turn down the opposition!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0213	If the opposition could get into the system, if he could do his job, we wouldn't turn his voice down. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0379par0216	Mr. President, now, these numbers are the figures spoken by the Minister of Family and Social Policy. Plus, when we think that 17 million poor people live in this country, and the national income per capita was 9.265 dollars last year, and this year it was down to $7,676 dollars, and the public was poorer, it's still more likely to be tied to dollars, to tie it here and there, to the discretion of all our fellow citizens. It's clear what this country has become financially. The country has fallen into ruin, and it has fallen financially; the country has become poor. To ignore the poor people who live in this country, sir, is entirely the usual AKP policy to try to change the resources they set aside for poverty in their own budget, one way or another, to explain it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0218	Thank you. Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process. We're ten minutes out. We'll get the questions in five minutes, and the Minister will answer the questions in the next five minutes. First, Mr. Özdemir, as usual, please come in.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0380par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary that the recruitment of graduates with expertise and merits who can be employed in government staffs is unfortunately not available. Only one of the jobs of real estate and real estate graduates is being bought by Tapu Kadastro. It is not recognised, however, when there is an opportunity to be employed in the National Property Directorate, Agriculture Reform General Directorate, the municipal real estate managership office, and all official institutions with a real estate pen in them. In addition to the eight thousand-year-old real estate and real estate management graduates, they've also requested hiring in these areas of employment...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0374par0230	Thank you. Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0381par0232	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to ask the government: How much is not used in the budget for investments in the 2016 budget? What's the split on the investments in Balıkesir Province? What's the ratio compared to other counties? Have you set aside an additional budget for the income of the municipalities born in the Metropolitan Law, and if you have set aside the total amount? What's the distribution like with the counties?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0382par0235	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0383par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance: We had citizens who were injured during the fight against terrorism who were not counted, and we often expressed it here and in the Commission. The Prime Minister said, "We've given instructions and work to many ministries about this." Do you have a budget for this in your Ministry, Mr. Secretary? Question two: our disabled citizens who want to retire go to the tax office. The IRS does not accept the old report and sends it to the hospital again. 40 per cent and more reports are being sent to Ankara, but the central health board is lowering this report rate. I'd like to ask you, on what grounds the Ministry is dropping this report. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0384par0240	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0385par0242	Mr. Secretary, as we all know, you're 65 years old as an election bribe before an election. And then, on the social response that came in, you helped people in this transportation industry, you contributed with a law -- the Ministry of Family and Social Welfare -- and you transferred it to municipalities. However, the first payment was a year and a half later, and the next payment is four months apart, five months apart. Here's the thing: they carry 600,000 people a day, and they carry 140,000 people either on sale or for free. Indeed, a passenger bus is filled with pensioners or fills up with pensioners on the bus, where even a member of parliament is given for free, according to the word of the social state. They don't have a chance to cover their expenses. Every one of them has a record. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is clear whether a citizen who printed his card was a martyr, a martyr, disabled, or retired. Why don't you pay these fees on monthly periods? Are you going to make an arrangement about this?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0386par0246	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Tor...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0387par0248	Mr. Finance Minister, on 18/8/2016, a tax and premium pardon issued in the Official Gazette ended on 25/11/2016 to benefit from Law No. 6736 regarding some other penalties. My questions are related to Law 6736. Question number one: How many people have benefited from the tax debt configuration process? As a result of the configuration process, how much money has been obtained in total through installments or in advance, as the first installment, how much will be in installments? And my second question is, with the configuration, how much is pardoned for past interest and delay increases in debt related to the past? I want details. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0388par0252	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Ahrazoglu, here you are.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0389par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, how much property has been sold to foreigners in Hatay, and how much income has been made from this sale? Also, have the owners been given Turkish citizenship? These sales were made for which citizens of the country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0390par0257	Mr. Secretary, please. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0391par0259	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Özdemir has stated that our students who have studied property in particular have been employed in Tapu and Kadastro, but other ministries do not have the same opportunities, there are demands for this issue. And we'd obviously like to employ our friends, who are trained in the Ministry of Finance, especially in the value point of real estate, and who are trained in real estate management. But our friends, as I understand it, are friends who are trained in two years of pre-license program. But after all, I'm going to make a special effort at the point where our friends can also work at the Treasury Department. I believe that these friends will make significant contributions to the government, to the ministry, in a real parallel to their education. We're getting close to it the same way, but it's a bit technically useful to work on it. But of course, the year goes on, and we're in December. The overall use of funds in investment funds is 95 per cent. It's natural that some institutions, of course, can't use the funds because they can't make the tender, but it shouldn't seem to be a problem that any of these institutions have been left in the hands of this grant, and I'll tell you that in particular. I don't have any information about the questions you're asking about Balıkesir, and I will share them with you when I have some information about them, if you will. Mr. Hurriyet, you've asked me a question about being a veteran of our citizens who were injured in these terrorist incidents, but I need to look into this. I'll let you know when I know more about this, okay? I don't have any information at the moment. On the other hand...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0392par0265	It's about the disabled, Minister...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0391par0266	Now, you've made an important point. Indeed, because of their disability, we believe that those who receive reports from the competent health boards will receive pension rights in accordance with legislation. The application has made arrangements for authorized health boards in the secondary legislation. I don't think it's related to retirement, but even if our citizens get reports from health boards in the minimum income reduction, these reports are coming to a central council at the Treasury. We have specialist doctors on the central board of the Treasury, who are studying reports given by hospitals. They look at the harmonisation of the reports with legislation, and it can happen from time to time, so it can be identified and sent back to bookkeeping, from the wrong implementation of legislation, from the wrong implementation of the study. I spoke to the Ministry of Health here recently. So surely, and surely, a citizen of ours, if he has received a report from the hospital, another commission must not look at him again. So, what needs to be done here is that if there's going to be an honest inspection of the citizen's report, it has to be done at that location. So, frankly, I don't think it's right for such matters to come to the Ministry of Finance. Of course, it's a very ancient practice, a practice that's been going on for years, but I believe where we come from, we have to put it away. It's about our citizens over the age of 65... you know, we've all arranged for them to move for free with the approval of our Parliament. I think all the party groups supported it. It's very accurate in terms of social government practices. But, of course, in practice, our citizens have some demands, and there are some difficulties with the implementation. As the practice continues, our special public bus owners have rightly stated that some of their costs have been created here, or they have lost their income. So we, the Ministry of Finance, have worked with the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and with the Ministry of Interior to participate in this study. We've received information from our municipalities, private public bus associations, and we've also made assessments as to what amount of support would be appropriate in the province's category.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0393par0269	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you time to complete, please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0391par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. And while we were doing these evaluations, we also had consultations with the associations of our private public bus owners. That's true. In fact, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in the process has been unable to pass that regulation for quite some time now that the law has been passed. There's also been an impact on some of the details of the work here from different cities, but in the end, what we have to do as a government, we have to finish it quickly; in that sense, I'm not going to find an excuse for it, this process has been slow. But, uh, the arrangement came out, and after we left, it was backwards...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0394par0272	But it's still going on.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0391par0273	My dear Regent, my dear President, we paid backwards after we left. After that, we regularly present it to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy every month.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0394par0274	Well, that's not true.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0391par0275	But, in general, of course, it's best to reassess the matter of free transportation together. On the one hand, we need to provide free transportation for our elderly citizens, and as a government, we've taken an initiative here, and you've all been supportive. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit06spe0395par0278	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0395par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 40th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Decisions relating to Budget Order and Application MADDE 4- (1) The rules of this Law have been shown below: a) The distribution of grants given by article 1 [[A]] B) revenues to continue to collect according to legislation related to public administrations under central administration [[B]] C) Basic provisions based on the income of public administrations under central administration [[C]] ) Baseds on the use and expenditure of some funds [[E]] D) Adds to Law 5018 (II) and (III) estimates that the management and institutions, which are included in the ruler (III), will be used by the means of cash. [[F]] e) daily and compensation in accordance with Article 10/2/1954 and Article 6245 [[H]] f) Financial and other limits that should be shown in budget law according to various laws and regulations [[I]] g) In addition classes, conferences and overwork fees and the sums of other fees [[K]] đ) Boarding fees from students of the school boards, run by the Ministry of National Education, dated 11/8/ 1982 and under Article 3/8 of the National Ministry of Boarding and Boarding and Boarding, under Article 3/98 [[M]] H) The purchase value of animals, dated 7/6/1939, and under National Defense Responsibility Act 3634, will be taken through national defense. [[He']] I) Under Law 3634, the average purchases of motor vehicles via the national defense contract and the daily rent costs [[P]] i) The type of transports available to public administrations in Tables (II) and (III) are available in the year's course of service, the type of vehicles available to them, and the price of purchases of vehicles that are subject to car 5/1/1961 and subsidiaries that are subject to Car Law 237 during the year. [[T]] j) Home service monthlys bound by laws and decrees [[V]] Mr Mustafa Kalaycı will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 4. Here you go, Mr. Kalay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0396par0040	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the 4th article of the budget bill of 2017, which includes additional ruler. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation. Law 5018 envisioned the placement of the Covenant of the Budget Law. However, the tablet (E) is a secret bag of laws. Many of the topics on the 90-point ruler are provisions that require a separate legal arrangement rather than extenuating and facilitating provisions for the implementation of the budget. It is clear that such an application is incompatible with Articles 88, 89 and 161, and contrary to the Constitution. According to the budget's (I) ruler, the total number of appointments is 9,000 in 2017, including 4,000 professors and 5,000 officers. While some qualified staffs such as disabled people, judges and prosecutors, physicians and pharmacists, police and military personnel are not subject to a limit, the government has also announced the total number of appointments to be made, including these, as 60,000. No separate number has been given for the appointment of teachers. Therefore, the needs of teachers and the hopes of non-assigned teachers have not been met in this budget. As the National Movement Party, we submitted a motion to have at least 20,000 teachers appointed in February. We were able to offer 20 grand because the current grant could only cover so many numbers. We expect your support on behalf of non-assigned teachers who will be voting shortly. Again, many public administrations will be understaffed and underprivileged. On the other hand, in 2016, in the hope of a public job, about 6 million people took the KPSS exam for graduates of secondary education, pre-license and licensing, so 6 million people took the exam to become civil servants are the only 5,000 officers the government will appoint. Millions of our young people are looking for work, demanding a human job and a means of income without need for anyone. Today, teacher candidates are unemployed, economists, entrepreneurs, unemployed, engineers, veterinary physicians, technicians are unemployed. The government doesn't care about unemployed young people, who are actually our strategic advantage. However, Mr. Prime Minister has explained that within the scope of ISKUR's active labour force programmes, there are measures to increase employment and employment in the private sector to employ 100,000 people in the public sector. In fact, this measure involves abuse rather than employment. The government has already found a mine. In 2015, more than 400,000 people were hired under the name of the Program for Community Help and the AKP channel before the June 7th and November 1st elections. It has been seen that state resources are being used to benefit the party rather than to benefit the community. People's unemployment and desperation have been exploited. Again, how will you repay the millions of unemployed young people who are waiting to be assigned to the KPSS, who are not in line, and who are being replaced in other ways? Why don't you hire subcontractors instead of hiring them? Let the government first keep their promise to subcontractors. We work all the time, it's the end. Words like that are spoken. When it comes to taxing, the government immediately displays, at jet speed, and relentlessly increases taxes, adding tax hikes one after the other. What has he been working on for months? That's enough, stop making fun of subcontractors. Subcontractors, pilgrims are waiting for the road. Whatever you're going to do, bring that arrangement. And do not plot in it, but be just, and be just. Still, all subcontractors who worked a while ago should be provided with the means to provide. The AKP has victimised many public employees. The AKP is the one who signed a protocol that temporary and seasonal workers will be extended, promising, but failing. The 4/C victims are deputy imams and honorary Koran course instructors and deputy midwife/sisters, family health workers, the AKP (AKP) who does not put master teachers on staff and discriminate. It is the AKP (AKP) who does not employ staffs as much as he needs to, but has depressed the candidates for teachers waiting to be appointed. These are the AKP (AKP) who has given the Syrian staff even while waiting for the staff, who has signed with the party reference, subcontractor and ISKUR recruitment. Dear lawmakers, instead of their relevant laws on determining wages and salaries paid to some areas such as the disabled, security guards, veterans who are in need on the K table of the budget, the indicators are being laid out on this table. The Constitution is to replace what is proper and true with a separate legal arrangement of the indicators of the relevant laws. In addition, payments on indicators on the ruler are very inadequate, and they also have problems facing solutions. In January 2017, the government envisions an increase of $6.5 for a 65-year-old month, 10 lira for a disabled month, 19 lira for combat veterans, 32 lira for security guards. The government may brag, but even when I say it, I get bored. They won't take this money if you give it to your kids for an allowance. The salaries and rights of these segments must be improved. On the other hand, on the basis of his family's income, you are not in need. The disabled, who have been cut off because of his family's salary, are left in need of their families even though they are not legally needy. An adjustment to the basis of its own income should be made in the binding of a disability pension. In addition, those who are disabled must be considered disabled before they are born or are employed. One of the most important problems of the disabled is unemployment. The disabled must be ensured to be put to work, to participate in production and to be brought to society. For this purpose, the public must increase the quota of disabled people and be quickly appointed to the disabled quotas. While security guards have been paid a certain amount of salary while on duty and leave, they have been practically illegally employed for years without social security rights, such as the green card service. Security guards must be taken into the social security system and provided with the rights and resources given to the insured. Some of the veterans are paid a net minimum wage, some per month over 6503 indicators. It is not acceptable to differentiate the criteria for service to the congregation, which is the reason for the monthly bonding of honor. The same amount of honor must be paid to our veterans, regardless of income and employment. In addition, the demand for medals from combat veterans must be eliminated and given the medals they will proudly carry. Our combat veterans should also be able to benefit from employment rights and interest-free mortgages. The government's distinction between martyrs and veterans has hurt their hearts, their consciences ache. What book does it say in which to separate the martyrs from the martyrs, or the martyrs, without duty? How can the 44 martyrs we just buried be looked at differently? First of all, it's disrespectful to our martyrs and veterans. In this respect, the monthly and compensations organised by the Court of Law 667 must also be taken advantage of by martyrs and veterans in the fight against terrorism. As the nationalist movement party, we submitted the law proposal we prepared last week to the Speaker of Parliament. Our offer of the law for the removal of inequality and discrimination must be brought up immediately. We also rightly boast that our security forces are our heroes. Our security forces must be allowed to lead a peaceful, respectable, safe, human life. Especially now, let's solve the economic and social problems of our retired police. As the National Movement Party, we ask the government to raise additional indicators of law enforcement and give 3600 additional indicators to our police, allowing them to relax at least a little bit in retirement. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0397par0057	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0398par0061	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey has turned into a house of mourning. I condemn and curse the terrorist attack on Istanbul on December 10th, World Human Rights Day. I pray for God's mercy to all our citizens who have lost their lives, my condolences to their grieving families, and to heal the wounded quickly. I wish you the same healing wishes for all our citizens whose hearts have been hurt by such attacks. We've been discussing the budget for days at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Why are budgets discussed for days, and why is the introduction of the country's budget considered one of the main functions of the House? Because the budget is more than just an economic plan, it's a very fundamental indicator of a government's priorities, preferences, where it wants to take the country. In other words, the budget is the country's compass. However, your compass is lost. Dear friends, as a friend who devoted his life to the struggle for democracy and human rights, I know one thing very well: because he is human, there is nothing left for a political mindset to give the country, neither economic nor political, that doesn't care who he is or where he lives, but simply because he is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. Today, there is no need to be a budget expert, an economist, to know that AKP will not be able to carry a budget. Because we now know that the first condition of economic prosperity and progress in today's world is social peace, freedoms, law state and democracy. Dear friends, what do the structures of power that have lost the capacity to solve problems and create problems do? The world's political history is full of examples. He becomes more and more authoritarian, he divides society, polarizes, makes enemies of each other, betrays everyone, declares everyone a terrorist, even further, and acts both inside and outside war policies. This is the view Turkey faces today. After June 7th, we saw the environment created either by chaos or by sovereignty. We're dealing with a sense of power that's willing to set the country on fire to stay in power at all costs. Therefore, hundreds of people lost their lives to build the authoritarian presidential regime, soldiers, policemen were martyred, unprecedented human rights violations were systematically implemented, journalists were imprisoned, newspapers were confiscated. Dear friends, we need to face this fact first, the power, all of us, and we need to take a political stand. Turkey is no longer considered a democracy in the report of any respected international organisation today. Look, I'm pointing out that I'm not saying advanced democracy, liberal democracy, Turkey is not considered a democracy. In human rights reports, unprecedented violations are said to be a government policy for officers who have committed these violations to be left unpunished. And what is this whole situation created for, for? The terror, the helldek, Russia, the traitors, the external forces, the conspiracy theories, the acceptance of what was done for them. Let's not kid each other, we all know what the real reason for these policies is, the issue is to build an authoritarian regime that is trying to protect the Turkish Parliament, the AKP, the government, the judiciary. But let us see this: The price of this authoritarian regime has now reached an unmovable point for all Turkey. Come on, don't sacrifice 78 million for your ambition for power. Let's look at the Kurdish issue, my dear friends: the conflict is over, everything will be a rose. Go to the places you call God's name. Please go and see what remains of the cities, of the lives, of the hopes of our people. We said from the very beginning: the approach to solving the Kurdish issue in the political way is correct, but this approach needs to be sincere. This issue cannot be solved with a person-oriented process. We said that Turkey's fundamental issue cannot be solved, focusing on one person's political accounts by exclusion of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, politics and society. You didn't listen to us. Then, when your political account failed, you caused irreparable damage to our culture, to our social peace, to our culture of living together with an unprecedented policy of conflict. Dear friends, is the Kurdish issue so different in other areas of democracy and human rights? Today, journalists who try to free themselves in media environments are likely to lose their share of employment, unemployment, and possibly jail time. Many journalists and writers are in prison. There are two reports published today. Turkey has increased world statistics. Cumhuriyet daily employees have been arrested for over a month because they have revealed the facts that the government does not want. The courts are transformed into the private tool of power, serving the AKP, rather than passing the law. Hold it. Let it go. Let it go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0399par0069	HDP says don't do this, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0398par0070	On the other hand, despite the crimes of public officials working for you, you have made it a tradition to protect even though they have gone outside the law, and the tradition of punishment continues. There's a new era on the subject of the unknown. It's been over a year since the Tahir Ambassador was murdered, and there's still not a single suspect. The only thing left of AKP's democracy was to get out of the chest and be elected, and thank God you finished it. Today, trustees are appointed to elected municipalities, the MPs of this House, elected by the people's votes, the party's presidents, are in prison. This is clearly called fascism. Today, Turkey is trapped in crowded areas, in fear of bombs, in the danger of being raped in isolated places. Thousands of our people actually died for reasons that could have been prevented, but not a single person is resigning. So, who's in charge? Who is obliged to protect the people, to maintain security and peace? But you do know how to tie every terrorist attack to the virtues of the presidential system. Remember, you can't solve problems, whether it's terrorism or the economy or the presidency, by shouting "Fittrat", by bringing out a gag order, you're just making a lot of noise. You can't solve any problems if you're so closed to dialogue, mutually speaking, and you think you're the only one right. Dear MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is responsible for building a solution to every incident in our country, and that's why we're here. This Parliament faces the greatest responsibility in history. We have to develop a solution to violence, terrorism, death. We shouldn't let our young children fall to the ground every day. As we prepare to enter 2017, we must place our hat in front of us and account for our situation. All the MPs in this parliament must ask themselves, what should we do to stop this progress? I repeat your life -- as someone who dedicated his life to fighting for human rights, for basic rights, for democracy and freedom, and who saw the coup of September 12 and the 1990s: there is only one way out of this terrible clamp: more democracy, more justice, more freedom. The only thing that gets us out of this vortex is not the autocracy, it's the democracy. I'd like to tell you one last thing. After the terrorist attack on Beşiktaş, the trolls who acted as if suffering and suffering were in their monopoly openly slandered me. I point out in parliament that there is only one reason for the slanders published about me -- my democratic, human rights, freedom, and the identity of a Kurdish politician who advocates peace. A number of social media accounts that have been using President Erdoğan's name have repeatedly shared the following news about me: اCHP MP Sezgin Tanzkulu and CHP attorneys are going to the Çağan Courthouse to investigate those detained during the Istanbul attack. When I was exposed to this slander, I was at my late father's condolence in the vineyard. Finally, I must say that I have not yielded to these vile threats, slanders, and insults, and I will no longer submit. I will continue to call it democracy, peace, law, justice, freedom and human rights. For these reasons, we'll vote against this budget as CHP. We will continue our fight to bring Turkey to social peace and liberal democracy with all our might. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0400par0082	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Şanlıurfa MP Kemalettin Yilmakkin will speak on behalf of him. Here you are, Mr. Yilmaztekin.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0401par0086	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on Article 4 in the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill Talks. I salute you all. First of all, I know that we owe our heroic police and civilians, who were killed in the low attack of the traitor PKK on the evening of December 10 of İstanbul, to the martyrs who stood firm like mountains against the invasion of puppets and charlatans on the night of July 15th, to the faithful martyrs who sacrificed their lives for their moral and treacherous alliances, and to the righteous martyrs who offered their lives to the immoral and treacherous alliances of Aleppo. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs, Turkey is going through a very important and vital process. The wild West has been accustomed to Turkey's constant and non-questioning obedience to everything, which is why it's been aggressively attacking us lately. With a national stance and reflex, Turkey, which is hoping for broad geography, which has returned to its core and has given it hope, is getting stronger every day and is on its way to its rightful place in the history scene. I am proud to be an Arab from Şanliurfa and also a citizen of the ancient state of the Republic of Turkey and a member of this honorable nation, to be the hero of this struggle. I swore I'd carry on this glorious struggle everywhere, and I swore it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Since the day the nation's party came to power, several coup attemptes, e-monomies, party closing cases, travel bullshit, December 17th-25th coup attempt, the last attempt to crown our country, which has been sought to crown it with a July 15th invasion attempt, is recently sought to continue economically. While the Turkish people are trying to cash in and contribute to their economy, we see and follow those who withdraw their dollars from the market, who are involved in any actions that are not in Turkey's best interests. We have noted those who have dropped our credit rating three or four days after the coup, who have taken note of those who have put Turkey into danger country status, who have taken refuge behind these malicious rhetorics, who have sacrificed the country's fight for cheap political ambitions, and who are political leaders with the mouth of the enemies of Turkey, and continue to take note. Turkey is now in a period of irreversible reconstruction. This period of modern-day restructuring will be built by the will of the Turkish people and will directly take its legitimacy from our nation. No matter what you say about the presidency, the party presidency, or what you call it, we're all going to witness the launch of a new history scene in Turkey, which is in line with the development of this system in our country and in our region. While we take every precaution, we will ignore the efforts of the colonists, their servants, and the non-national focal campaigns that have had their backs on them, their efforts to discredit them, their lack of democracy, their efforts to lock the entire system, and we will leave them behind and continue on our way with a disgrace that will even be tested in history. We'll do it for big and strong Turkey. We're going to do this for many underdogs who have given hope to the great and powerful Turkey, and we have to do it. Dear MPs, we all know what happened in Aleppo. In one television channel, we all know that the local people there are terrorists, and those who call the invaders there the rescuers. No country cares about the hundreds of thousands of people trapped within six square kilometers of Aleppo today but Turkey. Neither the modern Western democracy, nor the human rights declarations of Western democracy, nor the scream that rises from Aleppo, which we are asked to put on our backs, which cannot be told, are not so ancient and superior as to listen to the scream that trembles from Aleppo. It's the civilization of this country, and it's the values of the nation represented in the Veteran Assembly, and that's exactly the values that will prevail, our own civilization and personality. And I will not fail to mention that my Lord will surely avenge Aleppo, and the world will be ready for it. The children of Aleppo are now God's, and they are with God. But the tears and blood of these children will burn the world, but the world doesn't know it. While Allah (CC) avenges Aleppo, all will receive their share according to their sensitivities, only the children of Aleppo will be saved in Aleppo, Arakan, and Africa. And I say, O man, so-called man, you have lost, the children have won. In the sight of God, children will win, and so-called human beings will lose, and they will lose. With these feelings and thoughts, I end my words, wishing that the 2017 central budgetary arrangements would bring blessings to our state, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0402par0099	Thank you, Mr. Yilmakin. On behalf of him, the other speaker will be Mr. Mustafa Tuncer, MP of Amassian Congress. Here you go, Mr. Tuncer.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0403par0103	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge as part of the budget talks in 2017. I salute the High Council. On Saturday (December 10th), Beşiktas curses the terrorist attack on our police forces and our people, wishing our martyrs God's mercy and immediate healing for our wounded. We must not forget the terrorist attack on Beşiktas, as the martyr's father said. Like Suruç, Gar, Merasim Street, Kızılay and Sultanahmet, the Beşiktaş attack is an opportunity not to put it on the dusty shelves of history and not to forget it is an opportunity to prevent new ones. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to talk to you today about our chiefs in the 2017 budget talks. I'm going to talk about the state of our chiefs in the Turkish administration system, whose existence and absence are unknown, so to speak, as we like to call them. Dear lawmakers have played a bilateral role since the establishment of chiefs. On the one hand, the locals are trying to perform their public duties by taking the role of representative of the state where they are. Our Mukhtars are not only acting in the village, but in the village's issues, such as health, justice, education, and family problems, they are, in turn, making peace with their doctors, judges, teachers. Our chiefs, an important unit, have, unfortunately, significant problems. First of all, his problems: I just mentioned them. Although they are elected and have authority, they are treated as unauthorized people in the face of politics and state institutions. The smallest unit chief is to be ignored even by his officer when they demand his services from relevant locations. It is as if the services they deserve were a blessing to them. It's that the appointed official doesn't recognize the elected chief. But I don't want to have the presidents run over by the appointed. He's waiting for his word to be fulfilled. While the village chiefs have the authority to represent the village's corporate personality, the neighborhood chiefs have neither a corporate personality nor a budget nor staff, they are stuck between the locals and local executives. Our neighborhood chiefs should be given a public corporate personality as soon as possible, the law on community policy should be passed, and the neighborhood chiefship should be restored to a strong status. Again, our chiefs have serious financial constraints and demands for the rights issues and the solutions to these problems. These are simply: the demand for increased monthly state grants, which are being implemented in 1977, which are underprivileged today. What is very old is the request for the change of Village Law 442, which does not respond to today's needs, and to expand its powers. Again, our chiefs expect the roles of representations in city councils to be strengthened and represented at a meaningful rate in the executive body of councils. As it is known, our chiefs are included in the SGC during their duties, but they pay the SGK premiums themselves. However, the elected mayor's bonus, the MP's bonus, is paid by the relevant institution. With a change to be made, the SGK bonuses must be paid by the Ministry of Interior for the duration of the mission. During their duties, they demand that the gun licence fees that were not taken from our chiefs should not be taken after duty, and that special passports be given to the chiefs who have been more than a semester in charge. Dear lawmakers, there is a long year ahead of us to identify and solve problems such as this and such as these, and it is possible to solve these problems together under the roof of the Supreme Assembly. Finally, in the first election after the first election in the District of Çine, Karpuzlu, Aydın Province, in 1933, I honor and salute the first woman in the republic's era, Gul Esin.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0404par0112	Thank you, Mr. Tuncer. Congressmans, we have now come to the question-answer section. Our time is ten minutes again. I promise the MPs who ask questions in five minutes. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0405par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you made a statement about 2/B. It had become gangrene, you made it legal. That's right, we made a law here together, and we supported that law. The forest-related part has been resolved, so the sale of land out of the forest has been completed, but the problem with farmland is still going on in a lot of places, and it's useful to sell these lands before they come in. In Adana, Ceyhan had a great deal of trouble. I shared it with my bureaucrat friends. If you can help me solve this matter quickly, it will be very good, because it will be a huge contribution to the country's economy, and our farmers will be able to buy it. And, Mr. Secretary, they're holding the cost too high. It's the cost of...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0406par0121	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0407par0123	The Osmangazi Bridge cost $1 billion 200 million, guaranteed 40,000 vehicles per day. As a result, we pay the interested firm, the company that builds that bridge, $3.5 million per day -- 3.5 trillion per day -- for cars that pass and don't cross. This bridge was built in Abysseli. In order for a citizen to use this bridge every day, he has to pay about $4,400 a month, so when he passes from one side of the Gulf to the other side of the Gulf -- if he works there -- he must pay $4,400 a month. Question number one: do you intend to provide a social aid so that this citizen can use this bridge? Question two: Do you plan to seize this bridge as a state and prevent the damage of the treasure under the State of Emergency?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0408par0126	Thank you. Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0409par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister a question about the disabled again. A 25% discount to disabled people only on Turkish Airlines planes is not allowed to buy economics and online tickets, I'm afraid. After all, these people are disabled, and they buy tickets online because they can't go, but they're not made when they're online. That's also true of the roller coasters. We're asking for your support on this, just so you know. Again, even though some companies have the right to discount the disabled, such as TTNET, there is no need for us to give such a discount. That's a big deal, too. Our family minister is gone, but maybe he's here or you can give him the bureaucrats in writing later. Sociologists are waiting to appoint. In particular, is it considered to be a recent appointment of sociologists within the framework of this ASDEP Project? That's what I want to ask you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0410par0132	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0411par0133	I'm asking the Finance Minister. One: how many personnel have you suspended in your ministry as a result of the investigation? How many personnel have you exported? Two: What is the total number of employees expelled from all public personnel due to the investigation? How many personnel will be replaced by these? Is the way he was taken with the KPSS, or will there be an oral examination? Three: is there a staff set by your Ministry for non-assigned teachers and non-assigned agricultural engineers? Four: Will the promotions said to be given to pensioners by the end of this month be granted? If it can't be done, explain why. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0412par0139	Thank you. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0413par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the most important factors affecting the quality and quality decline of the PISA report is the teacher's salaries, Mr. Secretary, when we discuss our decline in quality and quality in the educational system. According to OECD data, in Turkey, we are number 24th among 35 countries at the starting level of teachers' salaries, and we are ranked 31st among 35 countries, even in the highest salary rankings taken by teachers. Do you plan to arrange for teachers' salaries to adjust to the OECD countries average at the point of improving the quality and quality of education?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0412par0143	Thank you. Mr. Grandson...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0414par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, thousands of people in the public have been fired as part of the investigation into the coup attempt on July 15th. In this context, how many employees will be employed in the civil service, contractual and labor staff in 2017? Are you planning on taking a written test on these personnel? Or are you just going to take a certain KPSS score and settle for an interview test? From July 15th, we've all learned how to recruit staff to the public, what criteria to consider, through the painful events we've been through. Are you going to consider the merits of hiring from now on?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0415par0148	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0416par0151	Mr. President, thank you. In addition to the sale of the 2/B land, Mr Varlı has touched on the sale of agricultural land to farmers who are also a user. When we made the 2/B arrangement, we actually passed through our Parliament a legal arrangement that allowed them to sell directly the agricultural land our farmers used. So that our farmers can have the land they've been using for years, work as their own land, grow and grow jobs here. We started this project with that thought. So far, we've had 225 thousand citizens apply, and we've determined that we can make a non-moving sale of 218,000 of them. Again, sales began in 34 districts, which were being sold as a result of the work. So far, a total of 6,600 people have been sold at an estimated 85 million liras, without a total of 8,000. At that price, 41.5 million were collected. You know, as in 2/B land, we collect from citizens at 50 per cent of the rail price detected in the sale of agricultural land. In fact, if he pays in advance, the figure can go down to 35 percent, up to 36 percent. In fact, even though the application period is expired, we have granted a new application to our citizens who are in this situation with a legal arrangement later on. This application period will also expire on September 7, 2017. Here, the cost assessment is done by the bookkeeping of our ministry's rural organization. As you pointed out, if there's a mistake at the price, if there's a flaw, we'll look into it. But as the Ministry, we're always considering objections, so let me make that very clear. With a very accurate determination, Mr. Akar accepted what an important project the Ottomangazi Bridge is for this country. Really, it's a vision project for Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0417par0154	Yeah. But he's robbing the country.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0416par0155	Mr. Akar has again determined that it is not only for our citizens of Marseilles, but for all of our citizens who want to travel in that region, it is a very comfortable, very comfortable way to travel.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0417par0156	We can't use it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0416par0157	Today, our citizens are taking more and more advantage of this project and using the bridge, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0417par0158	I didn't ask that, I didn't ask that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0416par0159	Look, during the AK PARTI administrations in Turkey, we carried out vision projects one after another, and the Osmangazi Bridge is one of them.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0417par0160	Answer the question I asked.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0418par0161	He asked for the cost, Mr. Secretary, the cost.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0416par0162	It's a project within the framework of public-special cooperation projects. You know, this project, the Osmangazi Bridge Project, is actually part of the Istanbul-Izmir Highway Project. So, in the coming months...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0417par0163	Can't we drive?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0416par0164	You're not gonna use it, it's a citizen. He's happy as a citizen, the citizen wants to use more.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0417par0165	He can't use it, citizen, that's what I'm asking, Mr. Secretary, he can't use Bigeli.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0419par0166	Mr. Akar, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary, please give me your answers.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0417par0167	He's not answering my question, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0419par0168	He's answering in his own way.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0420par0169	So the Ottomangazi Bridge is really one of the vision projects that has been given to Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0417par0170	How much do you pay a day?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0420par0171	Don't worry, today, you'll see, the total cost of this project will certainly be very random, very efficient, and let me make it clear.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0417par0172	You want to bet?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0421par0173	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0420par0174	I'll bet. I'll see you in ten years.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0417par0175	You want to bet?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0420par0176	I'll see you in ten years. Guys, don't worry. Look, there's a completely rational, feasibility-appropriate project going on. With every passing day, the number of citizens using that bridge, using the Osmangazi Bridge, will increase, and will continue to increase, no worries.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0417par0178	Oh, come on! The Ministry responded. Mr. Secretary, the Ministry of Transport has responded, and it's going upside down.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0420par0179	Mr. Hurriyet said our disabled citizens have not received a discount on online sales from Turkish Airlines. I'll take a look at this, so it's very important, very accurate. If that's not the way to do it, then I'll talk to my friends about this study in terms of our disabled citizens. Mr. Arslan, the information on the number of personnel discharged from the Treasury Department is now...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0422par0182	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you an additional minute, please complete.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0420par0183	Okay. The number of officers suspended is 431. In regard to the appointment of teachers, 512,000 appointments were made during the AK PARTY administrations in 2003-2015, dear friends. So up until now, in 14 years during the AK PARTY administration -- as soon as the AK POTI government came in, it was about, I remember, 450,000 -- 512 thousand teachers were appointed. Don't worry, we always do the teaching assignments, and we'll keep doing it. Our teachers' autonomy rights have been constantly increased over inflation during the AK PARTY administrations, and their prosperity has increased during this period. For example, in 2002 our teacher's salary was $659, and our teacher's salary is now up to $3,310, so it's up to 458 percent. How much inflation was there in the same period? It's 227 percent. So the teacher's salaries increased in real inflation during this period. We've always been there for our teachers, we've increased their rights. We've given all of our officers, our employees, our pensioners, our minimum wagers a share of the welfare the government has always provided, and we will continue to give. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0423par0189	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0424par0190	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement in accordance with the Civil Code 60. I need to make a correction.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0423par0191	Well, wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0424par0194	Mr. Secretary, in ten years' time, the money you're going to pay the company is $5 billion, 110 million. This bridge cost $1 billion, $200 million. The money you're going to pay in ten years is $5 billion 110 million, $35, plus VAT, plus 40,000 passes. It doesn't go up like you said. As a man who lives in the area, he can't use his people -- if you say he shouldn't use it to the people of Kopeeli -- he can't use it -- he can't use it, and he's falling down every day. I have the official data from the Ministry of Transport, and I ask every month, and it's like that period of selfie, it's not free, it really can't pass, citizen. It has to be studied, it has to be opened to the use of the citizen; it's being paid anyway, and somehow I'm saying that we should sit down with these companies again and review this contract once again. So let's open the bridge to the use of the citizen.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0425par0195	Mr. Secretary, cheapen the price, win from my pack, try a little bit of that.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0423par0196	Thank you. Congressmans, there are four motions on Article 4: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second and third sentences be removed from the text of the article, which is included in the first sentence of Article 66 of the current 2017 Central Management Budget Act. Zechariah Maziel Musa Pine Ancient Don't Stop Akif Ekici Mehmet Bacheloğlu Ali Yiğit Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 23 of the current 2017 Centre Management Budget Law Bill... "In the event it's acceptable to the High Planning Board" and the second sentence "... We propose and propose that the High Planning Board remove the declaration from the text of matter. Zechariah Maziel Musa Pine Ancient Don't Stop Bihlun Tamayligil Akif Ekici Cetin Arık Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill, which is being discussed, we propose and propose that the 77th article of the E Cetveli be removed from the draft text. Zechariah Maziel Musa Pine Ancient Don't Stop Bihlun Tamayligil Akif Ekici Cetin Arık Ali Yiğit Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Kazım Arslan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The meeting is based on Article 4 (I) of Article III of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill (I). We propose and propose that a total number of civil servants be replaced by 25,000 ▪ 20,000 teachers and that the increase in expenditure depends on this change should be paid for by paying staff costs. Mustafa Kalaycı İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Usta Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0426par0233	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0423par0234	Government?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0427par0235	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0423par0236	Members of parliament, the 162th amendment to the Constitution's budget talks... The amendment motions are also read and voted on. I am reading the grounds for the motion: The appointment of 20,000 teachers is expected in February. As the current grant allows only 20,000 teachers to appoint a limited number of teachers. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill, which is being discussed, we propose and propose that the 77th article of the E Cetveli be removed from the draft text. Zechariah Mazeel (Izmir) and his companions Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0428par0245	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0423par0246	Government?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0429par0247	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0423par0248	I'm having it read. In violation of the Constitution's 161st Article (E) rule on the 77th article of the ruler (E), it is stated that the budget of co-finance, which cannot be met for these projects, has been imposed on the budgets of governments (06), and (07), which have been earmarked to support projects that are entitled to support by development agencies of public administration, according to Law 5449. The use of resources assigned to the project by the development agency and its utilising public administration is authorized by the Ministry of Development in the framework of the decisions of the Council of Ministers, dated 6/6/1978 and dated 7/15754, under the scope of the project, to employ personnel, function and accounting of the private account and determine the procedures and fundamentals of other issues. With the provision in question, a new spending law is being created, the current budgetation, the outside of the public financial management and control system, as well as the way to spend budget funds used by transferring to private accounts, accounting and auditing. The amount of funding in the budget is being excluded from the budget system, and the way to use it is not subject to the rules set by the current financial management and control system. In addition, there is no clear regulation on the audit, accounting and external audit of the expenditures made from the private account and how to account for the account against the TBMM. The budget costs of the administration's budget, including the central administration, and the budgets of other administrations that receive the transfer must be accounted for as budget revenues. There is also the risk of misreportation by not being fully involved with budgetary budgets in the public administration budget, which transfers in the event of a special account method. In fact, there are some special conditions and conditions covered by Law No. 5018 and the Law on Accounting Number 1050 that previously applied; the private income record, the grant of private incomes, the transfer to the next year, the registration of donations and benefits, and practices that do not disrupt public spending discipline, and are budgeted and computed without prejudice to the principle of transparency. However, "private account implementation" which has recently been tried to place in the public financial system against the Constitution and against the law does not have anything to do with such solutions. It is impossible for the budget laws to be enforced by the budget law or by any law in which the issue must be regulated in accordance with the constitutional rules that separate budget laws from other laws, to be changed, removed, not implemented, or incompatible. According to the Constitutional Court's established rulings, it is the age of law enforcement authority to leave an unlimited and uncertain area in order to govern without setting up the basic principles, without drawing up the framework. In addition to the 2017 Central Management Budget Law, the 77th amendment to the 77th amendment of the Constitution shall be submitted to remove the clause from the draft text, which is contrary to Article 124, 88, 89, 89, 124, and 161. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 23 of the current 2017 Centre Management Budget Law Bill... "In the event that it is acceptable to the High Planning Board" and "in the second sentence..." We propose and propose that the High Planning Board remove the declaration from the text of matter. Zechariah Mazeel (Izmir) and his companions Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0430par0265	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0423par0266	Government?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0431par0267	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0423par0268	I'm reading the reason: In violation of the Constitution's Article 161st Article 32.01 of the Ministry of Development budget, referred to in Article 23 (E Cetveli) in addition to the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill. 34. 00-01. 3. 2. 04-1-07. Turkey's Development Bank will be transferred to Anonym Corporation for implementation of regional venture capital, with the appropriate amount of funding available to the Higher Planning Board, from the grant in its 1 scheme. The method and basis for the allocation of the grant, transfer, use, hiding, monitoring, monitoring, and return of the balance will be determined by the Higher Planning Board. Article 22 of the Ministry of Development, dated 3/6/2011 and under the Law Decision on the Offices of the State and Missions of 641, which regulates the duties and powers of the High Planning Board, has no regulation for the Higher Planning Council to decide whether it should be issued as a grant without limiting the budget of the Ministry of Development. This task cannot be given to the High Planning Board with a clause or a declaration attached to the budget law. In violation of Article 161 of the Constitution of E, the provisions are 32.01 of the Ministry of Development budget. 34. 00-01. 3. 2. 04-1-07. It is contrary to the 7th Article of the Constitution, since the transfer of the grant to the Turkish Development Bank Corporation, the allocation, the use of this grant, the use of it, the hiding, the monitoring, the supervision of the balance and the ability to return the balance, without any framework, without any constraints, and without any constraints, to be given to the High Planning Board. He was not given any duties or authority in the law, while the Ministry of Development budget was 32.01. 34. 00-01. 3. 2. 04-1-07. The amount of funds to be transferred to Turkey's Development Bank Anonim Corporation for the implementation of regional venture capital, including the amount determined by the High Planning Board on the basis of the 1 arrangement, is an allocation, transfer, use, storage, monitoring, monitoring, and incumbent on the return of the balance, and the establishment of the High Planning Board under the central management budget, and the establishment of all public administration and social security institutions for all revenues and expenditures on behalf of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and the establishment of the account and the account and the process of responsible. The Court's control authority cannot be restricted to a provision added to the Court's Law on Budget E, in violation of Article 161 of the Constitution's Article. In this regard, the Ministry of Development, which is in the budget of the grant arrangement, is the public administration of the Council of Ministers (I), which is part of the Court of Law No. 5018 (I). Financial management and control of the funds assigned to the ministry are subject to Law No. 5018. Therefore, he needs to use the budget-substantiated resources within public spending law and give his account to the TBMM. Since these declarations are contrary to the Constitution's 7th, 87, 88, 89, 124, 160 and 161th amendments, this motion is made to be removed from the text of the substance. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the second and third sentences from the item text, which is included in the first sentence of Article 66 of the current 2017 Central Management Budget Bill. Zechariah Mazeel (Izmir) and his companions Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0432par0283	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0423par0284	Government?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0433par0285	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0423par0286	I'm reading the reason: In violation of the Constitution's Article 161st Article of the Constitution, the provisions referred to in the E Cetvell of the 2017 Central Management Budget Charter (E) of the Constitution are at 0700.00, with the intention of working as part of the 100th-year memorial activities in the prime minister's budget. 02-01. 1. 1. 00-1-05. The grants imposed on the 2 structures will be transferred to private account, with the amount recorded in the prime minister's budget, and the expenditures made from this private account will be excluded from Law 5018 and Law 4734, and the procedures for the use of the amount transferred into private account will be determined by the Prime Minister's approval. With this arrangement, the funds in this arrangement will be excluded from the budget system and transferred to private accounts and spent in special procedures. The Prime Minister is authorized to determine the procedures and bases for the use of the amount transferred to the private account. At the same time, payments from the private account will be excluded from the Public Contraction Act and the implementation of the Public Financial Management and Control Law. It is also unclear whether the private account will be subject to the Court's audit. It is also possible that the "special account" application is intended to ensure the pursuit and use of funds in accordance with the purpose of transferring funds, but it is possible that it is legal for public administrations of 5018 to be used in accordance with the budget of the prime minister's budget, and that the control of its use of its purpose, which will be "opened in the budget and that it will be made available for the purpose that it should be paid for its own purposes." The spending of budget resources using private accounts without subject to basic fiscal legislation provisions encourages escapes from budget discipline and enjoyment in spending and prevents budget practices from being transparent, open and accountable. Under constitutional rules that separate budget laws from other laws, there is no way that a matter that should be regulated by the law should be regulated by budget law or by any law that is in force to be passed by budget laws, whether it should be removed, not implemented, or in violation of regulations. The second and third sentences in the first sentence of Article 66 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act are referred to in the first sentence of "E Court" and are in violation of the Constitution's 2, 7, 87, 88, 89, 124 and 161. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit your votes on the 4th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. MADDE 5- (1) Payment to Cover Staff Expenses: If public administrations and budgetary funds under the general budget are not seen to be sufficient for the budgets of private budgetary administrations, the budget of the Finance Ministry will be opened to the current or new arrangements for the costs required by its relevant legislation, 12.01.31. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. To make a transfer from the grant in the scheme of one, 12:01.31 of the Finance Ministry budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. From the six-securities, the public administrations within the general budget and the budgets of private budgetary administrations (01), (02), (03), (05) and (08) in the very urgent and mandatory conditions (06) and (07) in the economic codes that include economic codes, 12:01.31 of the Finance Ministry budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. According to the conditions of the 2017 Year Programme, Co-ordinating and Watching Investment Programme in the 2017 Investment Programme, it is necessary to step up investments in primary sectors, or to transfer them to the current or new structures of public administrations under the general budget, according to the emerging conditions in the primary sectors and lower sectors, and to increase the funding for projects that need to be new to the programme, according to the conditions of implementation. (4) Payment for Natural Disaster Expenses: 12:01.31 of the Finance Ministry budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. To transfer the funding in five settings to existing or new arrangements to meet all natural disaster costs for public administrations and private budgetary administrations under the general budget, as long as it is associated with the investment-quality investment programme in terms of investment-quality costs. The Minister of Finance is in charge. İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu will speak on behalf of the Milliyetci Movement Party Group on Article 5. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0434par0311	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group that Article 5 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Turkey's economy is today in a situation where unstable growth continues, macroeconomic goals fail to meet, Turkish lira loses too much value, unemployment rises to double digits again, and there are high increases in borrowing. These conditions also make it difficult for the implementation of the envisioned goals in the budget bill of 2017. The 2016 budget spending, which will be at 581 billion liras, is estimated to increase by 11 per cent in 2017 to $645 billion. Budget spending consists of interest-free spending and interest expenditures, as well as principal pens. The budget deficit, which was $23.5 billion in 2015, is expected to increase by 46.9 per cent in 2016 to $34.6 billion. Again, the 2017 budget deficit is estimated to be $46.9 billion, with an increase of 35.6 per cent, according to the 2016 forecast. On the other hand, corruption in public finance, the most powerful aspect of Turkey's economy, attracts attention. The revised data for 2016 show that the public deficit has increased according to 2015 and will be far above the goals. The overall state balance, except for interest and privatisation, is broken by 2 per cent of national income in 2015. This data, unfortunately, supports concerns about the health of the public finances. In 2017, since 2000, the start date of economic programmes, apart from the 2009 crisis, was the first time the programme was envisioned open in non-responsive public balance. This negative development shows that the public finance needs to be dealt with with with delicately. In the coming year, it is imperative that the financial discipline, which is the only basic anchor the economy is based on ahead of the global financial storm that awaits developing countries like Turkey, should be strengthened. However, the 2017 budget deficit target appears to be based on a level such as 1.9 per cent of the GDP, and far from the quality of spending that has been expected to be reformed for many years. About 15 billion lira capital revenues, including privatisation revenues, are targeted in 2017. This goal suggests that the government's estimated budget deficit will actually be greater due to its risks. Tax revenues, based on budget revenues, are expected to increase by 13.9 per cent in 2017 compared to the previous year to $511.1 billion. The $354 billion of this figure is made up of indirect taxes, and it shows that it is possible to hold goals by increasing the tax burden on citizens. As it is known, investment is needed to increase domestic savings in order to increase investments. Because the savings rate in the countries we're competing in is 30 percent. However, an estimated 16.5 per cent domestic savings rate for 2016 has been revised at 13.5 per cent. It must be remembered that the savings level in 20 percent has been reduced to these levels by AKP authorities. With this savings rate, it won't be easy to achieve the expected investments. In the third quarter of 2016, the economy narrowed by 1.8 per cent compared to the same period of the previous year. During the same period, public spending increased by 23.8% compared to the previous period. In fact, this increase in public spending has prevented the growth rate from becoming even lower. In recent years, it has been a 3.2 per cent reduction in the spending of households, one of the most important reasons for economic growth, as of the third quarter of 2016. On the other hand, exports of goods and services increased by 7 per cent in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the same period of the previous year, while imports increased by 4.3 per cent. It seems that the next days will be difficult for all parts of society, with farmers, tradesmen, workers, civil servants, pensioners, industrialists and households, and societal anxiety. As a matter of fact, the consumer Trust Index was reduced by 6.9 per cent in November compared to the previous month, making it 68.93. Within the same index, the expectation that the overall economic situation will be better in the next 12 months has been reduced by 6.5%; the hope that the household's financial situation will be better by 5.4 per cent; the expectation that unemployment will be reduced by 7.6 per cent. The unemployment rate rose to 11.3% during August 2016 and to 19.9% in the young population. According to the same period of last year, the decline in young employment is alarming. On the other hand, the percentage of young people who are neither employed nor employed has increased to 27.2%. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important anchors for the health of the economy is, most importantly, the stability of the exchange rate. Turkish lira is losing value, while our people are getting poor every day. The violent surge in the wolf is a sign of negativity all over the world. In light of these developments, the government must review many goals, especially targets for middle-term growth, employment and inflation. Although the measures will not change the indicators for this year, the measures for 2017 are important, given that 2016 is only a short period of time remaining. For treatment, it is important that the diagnosis is correct and the wound is wrapped without deepening. Basically, the main element behind Turkey's budget deficits and the current deficit is the foreign trade deficit. The measures must be taken quickly so that Turkey does not face the risk of a twin deficit and a current deficit in the coming period. The current account deficit was $1.6 billion in October 2016, while the twelve-month current account went up to 33.7 billion. This number is already over $31.3 billion, the target of 2016. No doubt we can't increase our income and prosperity by opening up the business. Our country's debt level is constantly increasing. Turkey's external debt, mainly from the private sector, increased to $421.4 billion as of the 2nd quarter of 2016. In 14 years, our foreign debt has increased by 225.2%. The debt of our citizens has also increased at high rates in the same time. Dear lawmakers, ambiguities cause investors to be blindsided. The disarray and uncertain interest in the schools increase input costs, instability and loss of confidence deter the investor. Turkey is losing competitiveness every day; it is ranked 63rd and 69th in the World Bank's ease of doing business index. As a matter of fact, Turkey's share of direct international investments is still below 1.90 per cent. However, in developing countries, we have a higher rate of 3.7 in Brazil, 2.5 in India, 1.7 in Mexico, 1.1 in Chile. In order for Turkey to emerge from this vicious cycle, it is imperative that it immediately take steps towards social sectors such as law and justice, public administration and education, health and social security, along with macroeconomic measures, create a new story. In a situation where these are not done and macroeconomic indicators are broken, employment will become narrower and poverty will deepen. Therefore, building economic trust is an inevitable obligation to boost investments, to create a productive economy. Dear MPs, despite all of this, we believe that the Turkish nation and the state of the Republic of Turkey have the power to overcome the political and economic tribulation, to rid the scourge of terror, and to establish social peace and prosperity. The National Movement Party will continue to support the welfare of our nation, as it has been so far. As I finish with these thoughts, I wish you all the best in the 2017 budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0435par0332	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Seyit Torun, MP of the Army, will speak. Here you go, Mr. Grandson.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0436par0336	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on Article 5 of the 2017 Budget Law Bill. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. First of all, I pray to God for the mercy of the police and civilian citizens who died in Beşiktas on December 10th, their place will be in heaven, and the wounded will receive immediate healing, and I hope we don't suffer this kind of pain again. With this clause, we authorize Mr. Finance Minister to transfer funds if public administrations, budgetary budgets for private budgets, staff costs, if the SGO premiums can't be paid, if investments need to be accelerated in primary sectors, if there's an emergency and mandatory situation. Okay, let's authorize it, of course the state can't say I can't pay. However, we don't know where the Minister of Finance is transferring from where, why the funds aren't enough, and why it's being forced to transfer, what primary sectors and projects are being funded, or we don't know who's going to be given funds based on who's priority. Dear lawmakers, the picture is grave at the point where those who have ruled the country for 14 years have brought Turkey into existence. What we've won in 80 years and lost in 14 years will never come back, dear friends. For 14 years, we've lost industrial facilities, mines, water, almost all of our ports, public facilities, land, everything we've got. What did we lose these for, guys? Is there income justice in Turkey? Is unemployment down? The officer, the worker, the tradesman, has prospered? Are young people looking to the future with confidence now? No, on the contrary: agriculture is finished, our manufacturer is bleeding, citizens have been left behind the border of hunger and poverty with the wrong economic policies applied; half of 78 million are active; we are dependent on all sides; imports are encouraged instead of exports; terror drops fire on the furnaces every day; no one's safety is left; foreign policy is exhausted, our friend is gone, the outside world is making fun of us; we have become a country whose reputation has been reset. What haven't you done yet: academics of Turkish soldiers, police forces, who have been disgraced with false evidence, whose reputations have been destroyed, academics whose suicides you've caused, hundreds of honorable people, the ones you've been holding hands with for years, the ones you've carved under the state, the law, the ones you've been screwing over the Turkish nation, and you've gone on without account of any political responsibility. You're moving on, and for ten days, your ministers, your lawmakers have been drawing, drawing pink paintings here, but there's no pink paintings in education, in health, in science, in technology, or in industry that you've described. The market, the market, the citizen's situation is different, the citizen's den is moaning, dear friends. In the budgets you've been doing so far, you have to ask, what goal have you achieved in inflation, unemployment, growth? Growth is 2.9; hunger limit is $1.417; we have 6 million unemployed, 20 million poor; our women are forced to commit suicide; our children are engaged in sexual abuse in the dorms; their hair is burning with fire; our people are tested with fear, terror, and death. You said you were with the farmer, the peasant for years, which is a huge lie. We became importers in agriculture; the farmer is miserable, can't produce, sells what he produces at less than it costs, sells his tractor not enough, and the shopkeeper closes the shutters every day. In short, when many people in this land are unhappy, unemployed, without food, without education, their basic human rights are in vain, how long will you continue to dream of happiness in the corners of your homes? Why are we like this, precious MPs? You know why? Because, for 14 years, you've created a bad relationship with hot money, and it's because of the runt economy. At this point, the results are reflected in all the indexes. We're 72nd among 188 countries in the order of human development. We're in the 92nd place on the axis of democracy, dear friends, behind Nicaragua and Uganda. You've changed systems 13 times in 14 years in training. The PISA results are out, the painting is pathetic. The Minister of National Education has found the culprit: vocational and technical high schools. In the meantime, I'd like to show you an article, valued lawmakers. This is an inscription that was hung by a science teacher on the walls of the 2nd floor of a secondary school in Goatören. See what it says: the chemical bond formation is assumed between amethal metal, between amethal amatel, between metal metal and zinhar is forbidden. I ask you now, Mr. Minister of Education: That's what your science teacher says, and you're looking for criminals. Don't let the PISA look for the culprit of the results, Mr. Secretary, because you're to blame. Let's move on. And you have not failed in your tongue that you are in the presence of the poor. You've finally put Turkey almost at the top of the world corruption index. We're number two among the OECD countries. It's creepy, we're at the end of the "Law Superiority Index" and "The Freedom of Press Index." Dear lawmakers, Turkey hasn't been really well managed in 14 years. We can criticize this budget in many ways, but we have something more important than all of this. Today our country's unity, integrity, economic future is in grave danger and threatened. Our country's primary agenda is terrorism, our bankrupt economy. You have the responsibility of burying the bodies of our policemen, our young people, who we lost three days ago in Beşiktas, in the middle east, in the direction of the leadership of the region. Dear friends, please understand that we are alone in the madness of changing one person's regime with the reality of Turkey that has led to disaster in every area, and now this person is talking about raising the number of cities that are 30 to 60. We don't even know if the government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Internal Affairs and Urbanism, knows about this. But we know one thing: it's a trick. You've passed a freakin' 6360 law. The city borders have been built; the city's private administrations have been closed; and our citizens living in the municipalities and rural areas have also been victimised. The village's corporate personalities have been terminated. Their common goods were taken away, and the meras were opened, and the town halls turned into neighborhoods. The citizen cannot have the service advantage of being a municipality, and the closest example of this has recently been expressed by Mr. President Ankara Metropolitan Mayor by scolding him on a matter of transportation. Dear MPs, it's called national will, national will. That's a big lie. Let's take a look at the national income of national will, how revenues are distributed. Look, this map shows us a truth. When we look from the west to the east, it's 10 grand in blue, but when we go east, that $10,000 goes towards $2,500. So it appears that Asia Minor has become unclaimed, my friends. Do not think that they have forgotten Asia Minor.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0437par0346	They've got incentive packages.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0436par0347	And those incentive packages only stay in the package, Congressman. Do not suppose that they have forgotten the Anatolian, and love Istanbul, and love Marmarah; no, they love the rant. I'd like to remind you once again why we call it Central Turkey. A cry of a citizen rises as he passes the third bridge. He's paying big money, indexed to dollars. Why? Because that's how the firms that they're giving these contracts to profit from. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there is nothing left that this government has not harmed. Our most beautiful city in the world, Istanbul, was the eighth in the world congressional rankings, according to 2015 data from the International Union of Congress and Conventions. As of 2016, he fell to the 50th place as a result of the cancellations. Now take this picture and apply it to whatever sector you apply it to. On the other hand, our president, Europe, is jealous of our success as the cries rise from all over the country. So, let me tell you about a so-called European achievement here: our mayors, unfortunately, haven't been able to go abroad in a while. 170 of the 190 mayors' applications were rejected by the Ministry. These mayors of ours are going to make grant deals, interview meetings in Brussels and other European cities, but it turns out Europeans don't care. The motive is explained: savings measures. That's not true. If you have other accounts, do it in other places, with your own mayors. When it comes to saving, you know where to start. None of you have the right to humiliate Turkey like this. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to bring another important matter to your attention. At the point where we're here today, really, the status issue is very important. The first and second-degree sites are being tried to destroy. It seems that the sites will also be opened to construction, and they will be used again for tourism, for housing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] A vast natural reserve of 2.5 million hectares will be lost, unfortunately.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0438par0353	Thank you, Mr. Grandson.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0436par0354	Finally, I'd like to say, dear lawmakers, that this country is ours, that we must truly live in peace, in peace, for this country, and that we must look out for the rights of workers, the poor, the labourer. I wish the 2017 budget to be a blessing to our country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0439par0358	Thank you, Mr. Grandson. Mr. Baki Simsek will speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0440par0362	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the central budget of 2017. Before I begin my words, I begin with the mercy of our heroes who died in the brutal attack in Beşiktaş district of Istanbul on December 10th. I'd like to share with you an article written by a Chief of the Riot Force about the Istanbul attack. I can't stand it, my chest is tight. I'll tell you what the riot police are: 20 to 25 years old. Most of them are kids like filintas, tall and old man. The day off is short. When they're on leave, if you see them in civilian clothes, they'll stone the touch model. They are poor children, most of whom come from a village, a village, a town, and a town in Anatolia. They all praise their homeland, and they're all country and country-loving, nationalistic children. They want to live in Istanbul. They're white kids like milk and spotless, maybe smoking is the worst habit of their shiny lives. They've never been a bum in their whole lives, they don't know what a crime is, they've never even been in front of a police station before they became a cop. Two or three people keep a damp house, each room separate and festive. Their little sleep is their great guardian, and when they are asleep, someone will make a sound. There's always someone in every house who makes a raw meatball, and their greatest pleasure is to have the whole team in the same house eating raw meatballs. Their mothers keep calling: My son, my child, are you all right? What did you eat today? Most people lie to their mother. There's nothing here. We're comfortable, we don't have a security problem. The married ones are very few. Some are engaged, some are verbal; they save money for the wedding. They serve by eating cans in the cold. Sometimes it takes 20 hours, but on buses, they joke with each other. Most of them have nicknames. Those chore assignments that had nothing to do with that can... they serve in football games, basketball games, concert halls, no charge. All they care about is home, no harm done. And they slew them, and cut them to pieces this day, the lambs of their mothers. They couldn't pick up their mommy's phone this time. Let our blood dry if we forget. What did you want from these young, shiny children who didn't live their lives? What do you want? At the age of 24, police officer Adem Serin was killed in the attack at Beşiktaş. Our martyr was going to ask for a girl the night of the attack. Martyr Police Officer Adam Oğuz was the only son of the family, married for two years, had a six-month-old son. What do you want? Again, Ankara Elmadağlı is Cetin Sarıkaya, whose funeral I attended two days ago. She studies physical education in Iconium. He grew up an orphan from the age of five, and his mother raised him as an orphan. He can't be appointed, can't be appointed, then becomes a police officer, and is also a martyr in Istanbul's bitch attack. Oğuzhan Senar was 22 years old, but the scoundrels slaughtered this 22-year-old sapling without mercy. It was Oğuzhan's birthday on December 28th. His family would surprise him, and he would visit Oğuzhan (Oğuzhan) in Istanbul, but they could only reach his coffin. Minister, actually, we had a lot to discuss with the Ministry today, but I wanted to talk to you about this attack, about our martyrs. We need to take care of our martyrs. The city of Mersin has given homes to all the families of the martyrs who live in Tarsus, to the families of 68 martyrs. I expect this to set an example for all Turkey. I expect our municipalities and the TOKI (TİKI) to take care of their martyr mothers, their martyr fathers, to save all Turkey from that shame, and to repay our loyalty to our martyrs. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0441par0376	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Once again, we ask God's mercy on our martyrs, and greet them with love and respect. Now, there's a question-answer process. Mr. Liberty, please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0442par0380	Mr. Minister, the legal arrangement for the payment of the transfer fee required by health workers in the state ambulance service command control centre and A1, A2 and C-type 112 emergency health care stations from January 2016 was made nine months later. For this reason, health workers were found to have a total loss of $1,728, approximately nine months. I'd like to ask you whether the price of this deed will be paid collectively, whether it will be paid in interest, whether it's the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Health.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0441par0381	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0443par0382	Thank you, Mr. President. According to TÜİK., in October 2016, you said that a four-man family's poverty limit -- together with food, clothing, housing, rent, water, fuel, transport, education, health care and so on -- was a total of 4,577 euros in total, but you just said -- as a pride of your laws -- you provided our teachers' salary for $3,310 -- would you please explain to our teachers what prosperity you've provided with this salary?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0441par0384	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0444par0385	I'm asking the Minister of Finance, and I want his answers clearly from Mr. Secretary: 1) How much money has been invested in Denizli province from the 2017 budget? 2) How much of the 2017 budget will be spent on investment, on personnel? 3) In 2016, how much have the President and the Prime Minister spent on covered funds? 4) How much did the amount spent on the palace so far be on the dollar? If there's going to be any more spending, how much more spending will there be? 5) Do you think the mayor's social security premiums will be paid by the treasure? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0445par0392	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0446par0393	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the OTV increase was given, and after the raise you made this statement: we expect $3 billion in income, but we didn't do it for income. You said that. I'm waiting for you to explain why you're doing the OTV raise. From when will the farmer receive cheap diesel and cheap fertilizer? Now that the crops have been planted, it's time to plant fertilizer, the rains have begun, and in Çukurova, the farmer is waiting for an urgent answer. You're talking about an interest lobby in Turkey. Who is this interest lobby? You have the interest lobby, you have all the resources of the state, who manipulates dollars, euros, interest, we think the interest lobby banks. Banks are the largest interest lobby in Turkey, which victimises people with credit cards, credit card interest, and victimizes people with loans. And I expect you to take precautions about that, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0447par0397	Thank you. Mr. Master...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0448par0399	Thank you. Mr. Minister, this is Samsun Wednesday Airport's track repair business. There's an offer on this. The bidding's been made. I'd like to ask you this question in particular, since the Public Contractory is yours. The tender will start in October 1, 2016; it will be completed in October 2017; it will last a year; and within a year it will not be shut down; the track will not be shut down, and traffic will not fail. The Minister of Transport says now: let's start this on March 1st, do it in three months and close the runway. Of course, Samsun stood up. I'm not asking for the Samsun side now. Is that legally possible? So there's a fundamental change in the basic terms of the tender. The job shouldn't be interrupted in a year. There could also be public damage here because there's been a year's tender. He'll hire workers there for a year, keep the machine park there for a year. Now, you're cutting him down to three months, so there's a real treat for the company. How do you view this as legal? Can you enlighten us? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0449par0403	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0450par0404	Mr. Secretary, again, one of the most troubled profession groups in society is the truckers who are doing logistical work, because of the height of the costs, the mazotin, the K documents, the car renovation costs. At the same time, the costs of crossing the new bridges have been reflected in their backs as a new financial burden, and their costs have increased. As a result, our truckers are waiting for you to give them some good news. For example, do you have any work on the transfer of K documents? Because like cabbies, they want to hand over K documents. Again, do you have a study in K1, K2 -- I call them kazik1, I call them kakzik2, I call them "kazik3" -- to be discounted in these K documents? Or do you have a subsidies about diesel because they earn their bread here because they're involved in this logistics business? I mean, I'm not talking about people who drive normal diesels, I'm talking about people who work and make their living.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0449par0406	Mr. Akar, thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0451par0409	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Hurriyet, at the Ministry of Health, I understand they've mentioned a time delay with our friends working in 112 emergency rooms, perhaps from the collective contract, concerning the arrangement, but I don't know the details of the matter. If you don't mind, let's get some information from our friends at the Health Department.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0452par0412	It'll be in writing, okay.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0451par0413	So I know you're making a special effort at the point of no delay, but let's get this straight, we'll give you the necessary help and contributions. And I'll give you the information.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0452par0414	I'd love to.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0451par0415	Mr. Özdemir, they talked about the cost of life. So I told him about the teacher's salary. So all of the numbers that I use are both official figures that the Finance Ministry has explained, as well as the official figures that TÜİK has explained. Thus, all public employees, including our teachers, have received higher rates of inflation that actually took place as of December 2002-2016. And in terms of TİK, I specifically asked my friends today, in 2002, for example, to compare the numbers to today's consumption basket, for example, with the lowest officer's salary. Those numbers say really positive things, too. Now, I'm not going to sit down and repeat that we've actually applied a price policy to increase the well-being of our public employees, our workers, our pensioners. But what do we all want together? Let our employees earn more income, get more out of prosperity. You and I have the same common goal. We can approach the issue differently from this point of view, but the point we're trying to reach is that as a result, the welfare of the citizen is increasing, there's no hesitation here. Mr. Arslan, they asked how much budget did you put into the investment budget in 2017?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0453par0417	For Denizli?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0451par0418	I don't know about Denizli, but I know about Turkey. So it's not the number we've set aside for Denizli, but the investment funds all over Turkey are 78 billion dollars. The funding in the 2016 budget is 60 billion liras. I also expressed this in my General Assembly speech, and I said in the Plan and Budget Commission, that in 2017 we actually increased the funding from the budget to investment spending by 30 per cent, especially in transport, infrastructure, irrigation projects, and in many areas, we really saved more resources than budgets. On other matters, of course, even a penny from the public will be accounted for to the House. In the Plan and Budget Commission, every final account bill reveals accounts for every penny of the institutions, and you have the Parliament's budgetary rights audited by you. So, what is the amount of each grant, the relevant institutions came in, made their statements here, and we all listened to these statements, in the context of these explanations, of course, the society, the nation will decide. About our mayors, you know, we've made significant improvements to their rights, their wages. In January 2016, we raised the deposits to $1,300, which was a thousand sum, so let me put it this way. Mr. Lightning told me about the OTV raise. That's right, when we say the EVT increase, we've made an arrangement in the vehicles about the OTV, so far we've changed the system of taxation based on the volume of the engine cylinder, where we've brought new taxation parameters. We've created new tax parameters based on the price of the vehicle and the properties of the vehicle, and in line with that, do it immediately. We've made an arrangement to consider the market's expectations. By creating price groups, we've increased the SVR in high-priced vehicles, but I'll tell you two things: in the OTV arrangement that we've done...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0454par0424	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0451par0426	40 percent of the vehicles sold in the market, so there was no increase in cars in the low and medium price group, and the increases in medium and high-priced vehicles, especially in the middle segment, were between $2,300 and $4,200, and I may not remember the numbers exactly. For him, the purpose of our arrangement here was to actually implement the taxation system according to the price groups that the market has long been waiting for, and we've already made these arrangements in consultation with the sector. Let me put that in perspective. Our Department of Agriculture will do a program to explain the gas payments to our farmers. Normally, that kind of payment is made in February, March or April, which I generally remember. What Mr. Master asked about this Samsun runway repair project, of course, is a matter of contract legislation. Frankly, it's not right for me to give a legal opinion on something that I don't have the right to agree to, something that I don't know about, something that I don't know about. And that's not the position of debate here.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0455par0430	The terms are clear, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0456par0431	The truckers are staying, Mr. Secretary, the truckers are waiting for your good news.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0457par0432	Mr. Secretary, perhaps you could instruct him to bring in that information tomorrow. Samsun is waiting for this.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0458par0433	Okay, I'll get it looked at.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0459par0434	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Transfer, add, reset and abort operations ADADDE 6- (1) in order to ensure effective and efficient use of the funds given by this Law, the surplus funds of public administrations over the year will be used to ensure that other public administrations will be used to meet the need for grants, or to ensure the use of the grants in priority services, or the budgets of general budgets in the general budget, and the budgets of private budgets (02), (03), (05), (06), (07) and (09) in the public budgets, or the budgets of the budgets of the budgets in the public budget, or the budgets in the budgets of the budget, or the budgets of the budgets of the budgets under the general budget, or the budgets of the budget (06), (05), (06), (06) and (07). B) As a result of the restructuring of public administrations, I would like to make arrangements for any budget and accounting transactions that may be considered necessary for the implementation of budget laws and the preparation of final accounts, The Minister of Finance is in charge. (2) The public administration, which will provide services from public administrations under the general budget, is authorized to transfer funds regardless of the budget of the administration that will run the service during the year, regardless of the functional classification distinction. (3) Public administrations under the general budget are authorized to transfer their funds to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation budget as part of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, dated 29/6/2011 and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation, under the Law on the Institutions and Missions of the Environment and Urbanism. (4) The National Ministry of Defence, the General Command of the Brigadier General Staff, the Security Directorate and Coast Guard Command are the institutions concerned with transferring the grant between the functions, if a function of supply and supply services, which should be run from one centre, should be conducted by another function. (5) The public administration is authorized by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance to include the budgets of the administration and institutions in the current or new regulations, which exceed the net financing amount mentioned in the table marked (F) with revenues on the estimate specified in special budgets and regulatory institutions (B). The special budgetary administrations that received treasury assistance were used in 2016 to provide funding for the budgets of the budgets for the budgets of the budgets of the capital and the budgets of the capital transfers, in line with the implementation, Coordination and Watch, or the need for funding of new projects, in accordance with the decision of the 2017 Annual Programme. (6) Source transfers between public administrations under the general budget are made by transfer of funds. Other resource transfers between administrations and institutions under the central management budget are carried out through due process. The sums collected in response to these transactions come to a table marked (B) by the relevant public administration, while on the other hand (A) are registered to the tablets marked. (7) The national Ministry of Defence, the General Command of the gendarmes, Coast Guard Command and Security Directorate budgets (e.g. private grants and 3.9 Treatments and Funeral Expenses) with the economic code.03.1.1. 01 Security Directorate Security Services Investments (except for the structures involved in the operation) (except for the financing costs and capital costs) the part of which are not spent within the year to ensure the continuity of the service to these arrangements is to save a transfer to the budget the following year, not to exceed 30 per cent of the budget allocations assigned to the budget. B) The second joke of Article 21 of Tourism Instigation Law, dated 12/3/1982, is 21.01.36 of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism budget. 00 and 21.01.36. Parts of the grants, which were not used to promote the economic code (03) under the 63 institutional code, were used to save credits for the same arrangements in the following year's budget, C) 40.08 of Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency budget. 33. 00-01. 4. 1. 00-2-07. Parts of the budget that are not spent on the grant, which is part of the plan one, are to record a transfer to the same budget in the following year, ) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry budget 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 02-1-07. 1, 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 04-1-05. 4, 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 06-1-05. 4, 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 07-1-05. 4, 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 08-1-05. 4 and 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 09-1-05. Parts of the funds that are not spent on the four structures will be recorded in the same arrangements of the next year's budget, D) 7.82 of the Treasury Undersecretary's budget. 32. 00-04. 1. 1. 00-1-07. 2, 07.82. 32. 00-04. 1. 1. 00-1-05. 6 and 07.82. 32. 00-01. 2. 1. 00-1-08. Parts of the grants that were not spent on the two structures are to record a creditable grant to the same arrangements of the next year's budget. (e) Police Department General's budget.03.1.1. 01 Security Directorate Security Services Investments, which are not spent on investment grants under the function, are to save a grant for the same budget in the following year, f) The amount collected to save private income according to its relevant legislation, shall be used by the budget budget (B) in order to use the budget's budget for the purposes set out in these legislation, to save revenues on the marked ruler (B) and to transfer funds that are not spent within the year (including those who have passed through 16 years), to set up procedures and basiss for the transactions under these provisions, The Minister of Finance is in charge. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 6 Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor of Kahramanmarash will speak. Here you go, Mr. Tor. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0460par0458	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on Article 6 of the 2017 Budget Law Bill. Article 6 of the bill is related to transfer, addition, revamp and cancellation of funds given by budget law. The issue has been discussed enough this year in the Plan and Budget Commission, as it is every year. Of course, raising our income is a happy occasion. I would like to address the extent of taxes collected with a great deal of difficulty, of which the citizen has been forced to pay, more than the amount of income, because the money entrusted to the government's trust is sacred, and the government must tremble when it spends. So I'd like to present a concrete example to the conscience of our valued MPs. I hereby salute the General Assembly. I ask God's mercy on our martyrs and for our wounded to heal quickly. Our example is about Victory Regional Airport, Kütahya, Afyon, Uber... If the airport, mentioned as an airport, was tendered for the first time in 2010, it was not offered. After revisions on the project, the tender was re-arrested, although a single bid was bided on the tender -- a separate issue where competition was not provided -- was approved for twenty-nine years and eleven months in terms of operating time. The project's investment cost is 50m euros. The airport opened on 24/11/2012 and ended its operating time on 21/02/2044. During the operation, the administration guaranteed the company 2 euros as an in-line passenger service fee and 10 euros as a passenger service fee for the foreign line. Dear friends, during the operation, the company is guaranteed passengers in certain numbers, except for a fixed service fee per passenger and passenger abroad. The number of passengers guaranteed for the first year is 500,000 for the interior, 350 for the outside lines. The number of passengers coming and going will increase every year. In the tenth year, the same number of passengers were guaranteed after the tenth year. The number of passengers guaranteed in the tenth year has risen to 775,137 on the domestic lines and 542,596 on the outside. That means the number of service fees guaranteed at the airport is going to be paid when there are no more requests for passengers. Dear lawmakers, the number of outline passengers guaranteed in the first year, taken into operation for Zafer Regional Airport, is 350, and the number of offline passengers is 350,000. When we divide 350,000 foreign line passengers into three hundred and sixty-five days, the average number of outgoing passengers will land at the airport in one day is 959. There's no need to extend, no need to be an expert, no need to work for the state air squares. If you ask a citizen in the village of Sirkeli, a village of Chubuk County, on average, 950 passengers will not land at this airport in a day, foreign passengers. Strangely enough, this was founded in 1933, and this was his job, and the 85-year-old State Air Squares doesn't know that. Since Boeing 747-400 Big Ball won't land at this airport, 959 foreign passengers a day means six planes out of 150 passengers, five planes out of 200 passengers. Who believes that five or six planes a day will land at Victory Airport? I'm not going to tell you for long, it's not different on the inside. The average number of passengers to the airport is guaranteed 1,370 per day. That's eight or nine planes loaded to the airport in one day. Could it be? I don't think it's gonna happen, I don't think it's gonna happen, I don't think it's gonna happen. Where would it be? It's only in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0461par0463	Only the AKP people believe that.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0460par0464	Whether he believes it or not. Dear lawmakers, to sum it up, can 8-9 domestic airliners, 5-6 passengers full of tourists take off in one day at Zafer Airport? I'm asking you, he can do it. If anyone says he can do it, he can do it here. In an institution founded in 1993 -- let's just say it's a rookie -- is it that clumsy? Of course not, it shouldn't. I don't want to burden you with numbers, but I think we need to give you a few more stats. In 2013, the airport served 32 thousand passengers on the domestic lines. The guaranteed number of passengers will be 550. The rate of fulfillment is 6 per cent, and the error is 94 per cent.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0462par0467	For the first year.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0460par0468	The number of passengers guaranteed for the first year on the outside is 374,500, which is 11.325, which is three percent, and the rate of error is 97 percent. Can those in the executive office be mistaken? Can it fail, if not consciously? I say yes to them, as long as they don't have to. It may or may not be in the human place, it may be in the wrong. However, there is a limit to what is missing and what is wrong. Let's say you're 3-5, 10% wrong, let's say you're 15 percent wrong by going further, or even 30 to 40 percent wrong by pulling strings. For God's sake, 94% on the domestic lines, 97% off the outside lines? Could it be, I'm asking; let's just say it here, I want answers. Mr. Secretary will answer here, but I'll give you the answer because they can't. No one can say that they can be, no one can. Such a mistake, dear friends... it's a shame about Turkey. Misunderstanding is money, and it's a lot of money. Let's call it wrong. As a result of such a mistake, the company, which operates as an internal and external line in 2013, averaged 12,704 euros a day, which is now worth 45,734 Turkish liras. I mean, we paid the firm $45,730 a day, Turkish lira. That's from you, me, the shopkeeper, the clerk, the worker who can't pay the premium. Is there any serious reward? I'm afraid not, as a passenger. Dear friends, let's say the airport is open to new business, citizens don't know how to get on a plane, they don't have that habit. A year later, in 2014, what happened? I'll give you the numbers: the number of passengers on the domestic lines has declined according to 2013. Because of the guaranteed numbers, I'm jumping by -- an average of 13.525 euros a day was paid in 2014 -- 48,690 TL in Turkish lira. Dear friends, the construction of Ankara-Izmir high-speed railway lines continues rapidly. See, when the high-speed train opens to run, the domestic line to Zafer Airport will be even lower, so the amount we pay per day will be more than 50,000 TL. For this airport, the company will be paid around 66-70,000 dollars per day in the 10th year, with 775 thousand or so passengers on the domestic lines, 542,000 passengers on the outside, if the trend continues like this. The firm will run the airport for nearly thirty years, twenty-nine years and eleven months. I sat down, I did an account based on the current data, and you can take it out; according to my account, the company will be paid 190m euros for the duration of the operation, 190m euros. The cost of the airport is 50m euros, and the company will finance investment costs in at least eight or nine years, considering other revenues. There's no such thing as a honeyy do-gooder anywhere in the world, and there can't be. In about thirty years, what happens if the firm doesn't hand it over, it'll already be old. The purpose of the do-and-run model is to build, run, earn money and hand it over. The reason for this model is the government's lack of financing, the state doesn't do it, the private cut does it, operates it, then transfer it. Victory Airport is scarce enough to say there is no demand for passengers. The demand for 3-5 percent was not enough for an airport; the stone we threw should have touched the frog we had startled. If our government had built this airport, 140m euros -- see, again, except for the cost of 50m euros -- I mean, 504 million Turkish dollars today would be in the pocket of the state. I'm not talking to the firm here, anyone would jump at a job with this kind of honey. Good-bye, citizen, and be happy on the plane. My promise is that today, when unemployment is a record-breaking record, when young unemployed people hit 20 per cent, that is, the man needs dry onions, and in the present day, public resources have not been shown the necessary sensitivity to use them. The firm will win, of course, but there must be a measurement of the profits. If the measure is missing, the person who did it must not get away with it. But the sad truth is, whoever does it gets away with it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the truth is as I speak. I told you, I'm free of the plague; let's see how those in the position of responsibility will survive this plague, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0463par0476	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Aytun Çıray will speak. Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0464par0480	Mr. President, members of the Veteran Assembly, budget work offers the opposition the opportunity to raise the balance sheet as a whole of power. For example, in Turkey, where you took over 14 years ago, terror had come to an end, and the wounds of the biggest earthquake in history had been wrapped up, and the economic decisions had been made, and you had increased liquidity in the world, with 34 per cent of the vote, and you were in power alone with 65 per cent of the MPs. With the presence of the 57th government, Cyprus was removed from the prerequisite of the European Union, and you took over a peaceful Turkey with its neighbours, not a party in the Middle East, but an intelligent Turkey. So where have you brought Turkey today? It's a total terror balance sheet. Average growth rate is at 4%. This was 6.3 per cent during the Menderes period, an average of 6 per cent during the Demirel period, and the average of the entire Republic period was 5.2 per cent. The unemployment is in double digits. You dropped the national income per Fert, and there have been 24 major explosions in one year, and you blame the outside forces for that, but you're the one who took the outside forces with you in Oslo and sat at the table with the member of MI6. You have placed the PKK in the southeast, and then I will remove it. You have destroyed the homes of our Kurdish citizens. In order to fulfill the Ihvanist ideals of the Davutoglu-Erdoğan duo, you are involved in the Syrian business, which is not our national cause. You made secret oil deals with the Barzanis. You put Turkey, the giant country of its region, behind the S.U.S.O. junkies, and entered Syria, where they fled, where our sons and Turkishmen were martyrs. As we walked into the same range, you gave the city what they wanted, and we ended up in the disaster of July 15th. That's how we came up with a history of betrayal, a myth. It's a reckoning of the most terrible enemy of our religion, the religiousists, martyring Muslims. July 15th, 246 of our citizens, have fallen victim to dark plots. And this alliance of evil, which hath justified all manner of plots for the common range, hath set figs for the furnace of our prophet. Fortunately, the July 15th ring of treason was eliminated by the noble cooperation of heroic Turkish soldiers, heroic police and victorious Turkish sons. The esteemed members of the Supreme Assembly, in fact, July 15th, gave the AKP leaders the opportunity to return to secular democracy and constitutional order, which would repent. In fact, after the June 7th elections, the President also had a sign of silence and a return to constitutional borders, even contributing to the establishment of the research commission for the July 15 coup attempt. Until Mr. Gardenie shows up and says, "Come, let's make the constitution in accordance with the actual situation." And that's when the coup commission went battal, and then the president went back to his wart. A few days ago, he ordered the investigation of the alleged coup attempt against himself because he was disturbed by the fact that it had begun to emerge. Now the referendum is being held when Turkey is fighting in four places, with the opportunity to have fair propaganda and the public has no right to know. If successful, there will be a constitution that has no legitimacy, not even the constitution of September 12th coup. To do that, we have to face the fact that a 21-point constitutional amendment is going to cost us a lot of money. First, with this constitutional amendment, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will completely lose its historical meaning. Look, this great Parliament is where both the War of Salvation and the future Turkey were established and ruled. So our first government is Parliament, and therefore the head of government is Ataturk, the Speaker of Parliament. Therefore, the government of the House is a nation without a condition. The word is neither a wish nor an idea, but a political structure itself. However, the 21-point constitutional amendment will make this great roof of the Turkish nation an organ of the entire single man state. Dear lawmakers, this is the removal of our state form by the hand of Parliament. In order to camouflage such a system to be established, you will see that the president of a ruling party is called president, which will categorize disaster. Now, if you have a particularly positive view of this, I would like to address my friends from the MHP: Have you considered the meaning of this in terms of the values of Turkish nationalism that you believe in?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0465par0484	Very.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0464par0485	On what grounds will you consent for the state of the Republic of Turkey to become a single man state?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0465par0486	Our minds are enough, keep your minds to yourselves.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0464par0487	And who are you going to give your consent to, to fill your mouth on May 5th, 2013? We're putting Turkish nationalism under our feet.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0466par0488	The mind of the MPP is self-sufficient, and you are in no position to reason.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0465par0489	You say a few words to HDP, MHP knows what you're doing.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0464par0490	Dear friends, suppose for a moment you donate to Turkish nationalism and countless insults to nationalists, will you forget that this power has given life to PKK in Turkey?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0466par0491	The MPP didn't call the coalition for 35 days, you did it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0464par0492	What about the testimony of the martyrs we gave when we shouldn't have given away just because of these false, divisive, misguided policies?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0466par0493	You'll tell that to the people who went to the PKK's funeral.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0464par0494	Can you erase the Turkish nation's name from your memory? Wasn't Mr. Gardener the one who asked for the presidency? Are such rudeness to Mr. Bahçeli and to the CHP during these processes? No way. I refuse to say here what Mr. President's advisor and text writer has said, because of my respect.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0467par0495	Yeah, go ahead, bro.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0468par0496	Yeah, you're being a pain in the ass, and you don't want to say it, and you don't want to! You're throwing the fit, there's no harm, and then I'll do this, and I'll do the satire. You're saying!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0469par0497	Don't demagoji, we call it my country, then my people.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0470par0498	My dear friends of the MHP, the high-profile archeologists; you know me, you know me, I have no intention of offending you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0471par0499	How do we know, how do we know? What's your specialty?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0472par0500	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0470par0501	But for all of this, we've been asked to...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0471par0502	Guys, let's all talk in class. The guy who's gonna blow the leader on this stand, just think about it for once, please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0472par0503	Mr. Chiray, please talk about what you promised before you left the subject, please don't pick on me at this time of night. Please continue.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0473par0505	These people know you. You're doing the math that your path to power will be shut down forever.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0474par0506	Dear lawmakers, Turkey will face a new de facto situation. We'll see that Mr. Recep Tayyip entered the November 3, 2019 elections with a new promise of a non-Turkish and completely new constitution.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0475par0507	You're lying, for fuck's sake.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0474par0508	Now, we've made predictions so far, we've come out, we wish, we wish, it won't come out; we'll be glad if it doesn't, we won't be sorry.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0475par0509	You're full of shit.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0474par0510	Gentlemen, our young men will be crushed and destroyed between the wheels of religious, ideological education. We won't survive because we're far from the world and science. We'll lose everything that makes us modern nations.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0476par0511	The religious ones are more modern than you are.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0474par0512	Dear lawmakers, accepting the actual situation means that we are incapable of protecting this Constitution. No matter what decision comes out of this place, know that those who say, "Happy is the Turk!" will defend the values represented by Ataturk to the death. This nation is a great nation, and Turkey is bigger than one man and his minions. What we've been through, the Turkish nation will get over it. Turkish man will not have to leave Turkey as the Jews left Germany. They're trying to breach the deed, the deed won't be breached. We're going to make the law superior.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0477par0514	Full-blown provocateur, full-on.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0474par0515	There will be foreign capital again. When the Turkish people came to Sakarya, how did the situation occur? If he didn't say so, he won't say so. We're gonna make it, and hopefully, we're gonna make it to history before the one-man government gets built. Let's do this struggle for democracy and civilization with a very political understanding. The truth against the lie, the truth against the false.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0478par0516	You're not gonna lie, you're not gonna lie.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0474par0517	...substantial loyalty against ingratitude. Let us set new hopes, new goals for Great Turkey; the Turkish nation expects that of us. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0479par0519	Do politics with the people, do it by the people.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0480par0520	You're full of shit.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0481par0521	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0482par0522	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0483par0523	Mr. Ersoy, please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0481par0524	I want word on behalf of our party group for bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0483par0525	Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] You have two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0481par0530	Honourable lawmakers see clearly where the National Movement Party stands, short-sightedly looking at its 47-year-old memory. This great House is having a major crisis over the legal situation, the MC government and pre-1980. Tours, tours, hours, days, months pass, and for four and a half months, Turkey cannot be elected President of the Grand National Assembly. Why? The Prime Minister was immediately given the authority to form a government after the election, and the General President was formed, and Turkey was not elected President of the Grand National Assembly. This actual situation is being noted, and then it is decided that the Parliament shall be appointed first, and that the government shall be appointed with necessary appointments in the process after that. And while the streets are polarized, while the right-hand side is seriously fighting each other, while the Republican People's Party Cahit Karakashana, leader of the nationalist nationalist movement, Basbug Alparslan Turkesh, votes and solves the crisis. The National Movement Party is a party that can pre-empt crises, crises, chaos, for the rest of the nation, for the state.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0484par0531	They don't understand, they don't understand.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0481par0532	And he's determined his preferences.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0485par0534	You're in charge.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0481par0535	Maintaining parliamentary system. Don't let people overstep the bounds of unwarranted debates while we don't know exactly what's going on here. Let's each take a look at our own privates. Although the HDP has fled from the MHP and the AK PARTY, the voices, the voices, the applause from the CHP's rows; the republic has not acted in line with the principles of its establishment, and is a highly respected MP in front of a CHP such as a blind elephant recipe, let them not lose the measure by drawing the issue to other points.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0485par0536	To the head of this country...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0481par0537	If anyone has a problem, let the plan come not to the budget debate stand, but to the press conference room, to argue with us in front of the screen if he can afford it. There's no time for a nationalist ulterior motive with polemics. The country will do what's right for the people's love, and it hasn't said its last word yet. The leader of the movement, which will say its last word, is a person from within the 47-year-old MHP memory.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0486par0538	The HDP didn't run to us, but he did run to you, it seems.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0481par0539	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0487par0541	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0488par0542	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0489par0543	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0487par0544	Mr. Turan has been up before. Mr. Turan, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0490par0545	You did it, Marshal...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0487par0546	Mr. Saribal...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0491par0547	Mr. President, I'd like to answer the speech of the CHP MP, if I may.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0487par0548	Because of the bullying, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0491par0551	Mr. President, we're in the final section of the budget at 11:30 p.m. By being much more responsible, by exposing our vision, we can make our claims on behalf of this country, cheap polemics, shallow approaches, insubstantial stimuli -- approaches, different assessments of the two parties' reasonable talks... In fact, we all know that these are embarrassing ways when you look in the mirror. I wish we'd seen a more discreet, budget-related speech, but we've seen a conversation that embarrasses us, but unfortunately doesn't embarrass the owner. How did we shake you after the election? The idea that two parties gathered together today and could not possibly understand Turkey's claim to solve a problem. We don't expect those who always tell us that you're not agreeing with us today to sit at the table and understand our plea of agreement.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0492par0553	It's the country we're worried about, the country.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0491par0554	However, we, let alone the one-man dictatorship, want the presidency in the name of the future of this country alone. You always tell us what couldn't you do? Yes, we're compatible with the President, doing everything. That's not the problem, it's the years after us that we're trying to make sure this country doesn't have any potential risks.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0493par0555	It's corruption!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0491par0556	Once again, we're comfortable, friends, we're in harmony with our President. Well, it's not our problem, but in the years after us, as the judge just described, we'd like to make sure that the risks don't happen again based on past experiences.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0493par0557	Then solve unemployment, solve corruption.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0491par0558	You may disagree with that, you may not be supportive, but the allegations of contempt, the expression of the street mouth...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0494par0559	Is there a man who says, "We have always been deceived?"
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0491par0560	Yelling like that... that's not true.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0494par0561	I've always been deceived, the man who said. "We have always been deceived, " he says.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0491par0562	You can yell, you can say...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0494par0563	He cheats, he cheats.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0491par0564	.. We'll talk, we'll take steps.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0494par0565	He's always been deceived.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0491par0566	If you've said what didn't happen, it always has, hopefully it will happen. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0495par0569	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0496par0570	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0495par0571	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0496par0572	There are two separate taunts, and I demand separate words.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0495par0573	There is no such thing, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0496par0574	What do you mean, no? The National Movement Party clerk has a taunt, obviously, so I'd like to make a promise.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0495par0575	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0496par0576	By declaring that I would also demand a word to be picked on by Bulent Turan....
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0497par0577	I answered, Mr. President, and I barely answered.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0495par0578	Let's think about that later.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0496par0579	Everyone has something to say in this House.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0495par0580	I give you my word in return for what Mr. Ersoy said. Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0496par0582	We'll discuss the matter with you later.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0495par0583	We'll see about that later. We'll evaluate it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0496par0585	Now, Mr. Ersoy, I tell you that the HDP has escaped inside.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0498par0586	He didn't say "DYP" or "P.D.P."
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0495par0587	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0496par0588	When a bomb goes off every week in this country, 1, 2, 3 fatalities come in, and the daily is counted as a no-go, the Parliamentary Movement Party and the Justice and Development Party and the HDP and the Republican People's Party have a certain attitude and attitude.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0499par0589	We've seen the conversation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0496par0590	I don't find it right for opposition parties to argue among themselves. There's a power to fight in the middle, I'll tell you that first. Second: If we use this analogy based on the attitudes of parties, it will not end. We do it, we don't stutter.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0500par0592	Who started the conversation?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0496par0593	We're not stuttering, we're not stuttering.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0500par0594	Didn't Mr. Cree start it?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0496par0595	I'm not saying anything, just hear me out. Just hear me out! Listen to me!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0501par0596	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0500par0597	Mr. Cherry started it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0501par0598	This is Deputy Director of the Group, please...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0500par0599	But you tell him.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0501par0600	Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0502par0601	Are you their lawyer?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0501par0602	Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0503par0603	Mr. Cherry, Mr. Cherry...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0502par0604	You're the lawyer for the MPP?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0503par0605	...he started it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0504par0606	Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0505par0607	They teased us, too, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0506par0608	Mr. President, reboot my time, my knee's broken.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0504par0609	Okay, I'll give you the time. Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0506par0611	Shame on you! Shame on Parliament! There were 44 martyrs in this country just two days ago. With these polemics, we'll overcome terror?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0507par0612	Who are you talking to?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0508par0613	Who did the polemics?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0506par0614	Just today...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0509par0615	Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0508par0616	Who started the pollen?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0506par0617	We used to say the right thing, we'd say the right thing.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0508par0618	Who started the polemics?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0506par0619	Mr. President, according to the Civil Code, you must punish him.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0510par0620	Mr. Bronze, please.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0506par0621	We used to say it was necessary. If our friend had a slip, we'd say it was necessary.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0511par0622	Say it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0506par0624	We used to say it was necessary. Besides, our friend has made an assessment in good faith.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0512par0625	What the hell?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0506par0626	And I don't agree with my friend's assessment at this point: I don't believe this Parliament and this noble nation will give up democracy. Don't worry about it. There's no such thing. (CHP cheers) No one can convince me that this Parliament will give up democracy by its own hand. We'll see about that when the day comes, when this crate is put here. The nationalist movement party's attitude is his own business, and I have nothing to say about it.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0513par0628	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0506par0629	I believe that the nationalist movement party's position in this process belongs to the nationalist movement base, and I believe that the nationalist movement party base, if the incident passes through this parliament, if the referendum goes through it, will be formed there and formed in favour of democracy. Again, I warn Parliament that a summit has been held today. Today, the Prime Minister and the leaders of our party and the National Movement Party met. They're not here to eat pumpkin seeds. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0514par0633	I've given you one minute, Mr. Altay, and you'll be talking for four minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0506par0634	Give it to me again. It's important. I don't want to start picking on him again, let me talk to him here.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0514par0635	All right, I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0506par0637	In a painting like this, I wouldn't put these arguments in this Parliament. It's in the middle. 1950-2016; sixty-six years -- lawmakers, for sixty-six years we have been searching for democracy in Turkey, discussing democracy. In a painting like this, where democracy doesn't have all the institutions and rules, it's not internal, it's internal, it's adopted, but who you make president of the systems that it doesn't sit in, who you make president of, who I am, will be dictator, nothing else. Where there's no democracy, these systems become a major social disaster. We'll tell people when the time is right.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0515par0638	Why didn't you make a sound when the revolution was being held at 60?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0506par0639	I'd like to end the discussion by saying that the National Movement Party will also appreciate this attitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit07spe0516par0642	Thank you. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0516par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 40th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission is in place, the government is in place. On the 6th article, Izmir MP Zeynep Altukok will speak on behalf of himself. Here you go, Mr. Sixok. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0517par0012	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, our country is going through a difficult time when social peace, peace and prosperity are under heavy threat, as well as affecting the economy. Instead of listening to our calls to a common mind to create a cure in Parliament, we're talking about the budget instead of the burning problems of the country, with the government's attitude, which sees unresolvedness as a permanent opportunity. The country's economy, which has already gone very badly, has come to collapse under the influence of government policies, which have been fought under the name of terror, with the most fundamental rights and freedoms being ignored by an attack on democracy by the State of Emergency. There's a mind that waits on the citizen by abusing national and religious emotions that can't produce solutions, and there's a government that has no sense, priority, and no job, other than trying to make that mind one mind, one power. There's a government that calls on the streets to protect its citizen in the face of a coup attempt, calls on it to protect its own safety, sinks the economy into it, looks at the citizens' $3-5 dollars for a solution, and has no permanent solution beyond the daily graphics rise, and hopes for a change of dollars. Moreover, we are faced with a mentality that plans to serve only the new Turkey, which is independent of the quality and needs of ministries, presidencys, institutions. Pointing out some figures: The 2017 budget bill was earmarked to the Finance Ministry at the highest cost of $171 billion, $962m, while over 1 million of education workers were earmarked to the Ministry of National Education, which served nearly 18 million students. We owe the results of the International Student Evaluation Exam, which is the PISA, to this budgetary logic and to the systematic transformation policies of education. The budget of the Dianet Affairs Presidency, which operates as the official representative of its own religious state monopoly in Turkey and since its establishment, is raised to $6 billion,867m in 2017, leaving a large number of ministries behind. The budget of this presidency -- attention, presidency -- is more than the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the budget of 11 ministries in total. The main thought is that Istanbul University, Ankara University, Hacettepe, ODTÜ, is more than the total budget of 16 universities, which are the first eight placing the budget in the budget. There are 67 thousand schools, 7.520 hospitals and 85,000 mosques. With 77,000 doctors, I have 90 thousand imams. One hospital for 60, one doctor for 900, one mosque for 350, one for 780. The teacher's salary is $2.980, while the imam salary is $3.156. What can be expected of this country's present and future if the education system is not sound, when it is not invested in science, thinking, culture, art? A people who are carefully and consciously uneducated, unquestioning, pledging. It is a people who have been deprived and deprived of the kingdom of the palace by sacrificing men and money to power. How does the economy develop, how is growth, how is the future guaranteed in a country that doesn't grow and grow by scientific education and advance and produce instead of producing a society that doesn't produce all the resources? Because the village institutes raised in the light of the Republic, the intellectuals, teachers, artists, community leaders were slaughtered one day, victims of unsolved political murders, our children are drowning in the darkness of this day because they were entrusted to the imam-haters, Ensar Foundations, the Solomonians' homes, the congregations. The children are removed from training and sent to memory schools and madrases. The laws that will launder our children's lives, their bodies, their minds, the rapists, are the ones that make these budgets. Moreover, it is protected and protected by ministers who say, "Once nothing happens. " The budgetation mentality is not changing, but it continues by providing itself with funds from a citizen's pocket to further strengthen its position within the profit-oriented system. Regression and darkness are encouraged. I'm the unrestricted freedom of those who teach young children in elementary schools today, who have been handed a rope of execution, who have been handed a single string, who have been taught by the four-year-olds, who are trained in tessettures and Sharia propaganda. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ashamed to have this conversation with academics who are being punished on the other hand for seeking peace, like the academic Abdulkadir Shen, who calls for slaughter on one side.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0518par0020	Spoken like an enemy of religion.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0519par0021	Thank you, Mr. Sixok. Congressmans, we're now in the QA section. Mr. All, let's start with you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0520par0024	Thank you. Mr. President, we're discussing the 2017 budget. The budget does not just represent economic values, it also represents social values. The budget is a concept that concerns all citizens because it's made up of taxes from all citizens. I'd like to ask the government: when you're getting taxed on this budget, you see the Alekis as citizens, but when you spend, you don't see them as citizens, not giving a cent to the Alevis. When will you see Alevi as an equal citizen? With the religious budget, you're splitting $6 billion,867 thousand into a single faith group. Do you think that's conscience or justice? Why don't you make up for this injustice by saving funds for the Alekis and other groups of believers? When will you see all the people living in the country as equal citizens, will you explain that? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0521par0027	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0522par0028	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, citizens who are watching us at the beginning of their screens are asking: Will food, veterinary, agricultural engineer staff be assigned to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism in 2017? Again, teachers who watch budget talks on screens ask, "Will teachers be assigned staffs in 2017? Again, what about those of us who live in retirement, and what about those who live in retirement? Will there be an arrangement for those who live in retirement??" Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0523par0031	Thank you. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0524par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to ask the Minister of Finance two questions on behalf of our citizens. 1) Our young graduates from Laborant and veterinary health department have employment problems. Almost all of them are unemployed and helpless. If this department's graduates aren't going to be employed, why are these schools open or can't they be considered to be closed after that? My second question: it seems to be an important part of general health insurance debt, where millions of unemployed are victims. Citizens are already unemployed and can't afford such an arbitrary tax. Although there have been numerous pardons of interest, it is clear that unemployed citizens cannot pay these debts. Can't you think of a way for them to erase those debts and just take advantage of health care? I mean, it's just...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0525par0038	Mr. Kayan...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0526par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Finance: Mr. Minister, it has been two years since the construction of the 40lari State Hospital was completed and the equipment was completed. The hospital hasn't opened in over two years. Medical equipment is said not to respond to current electrical wiring. They say there's going to be a new plumbing project and renovations. What is this situation? When will the hospital be in service? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0527par0042	Thank you, too. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0528par0044	Mr. Secretary, do you plan to put in ten years, 20 years, 30 years of temporary workers who have been working in sugar factories for years, despite the need, at a time when sugar beets and its production are being added to sweetener today? Again, Mr. Secretary, all projects that have been tendered and completed with the do-and-do models have been guaranteed as passengers, vehicles and patients. The risk of these guarantees to the state is about $113 billion. A penny's rate difference costs about 340 million TL. Do you think about how to prevent loss in this situation, or do you have a measure of it?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0527par0046	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0529par0047	Mr. Secretary, a citizen in Emet district of Kütahya Province says that most of us are in debt to the IRS and those debts are bending our backs. Truckers' tenders and purchases are now made from Ankara. We want these purchases to be made from Emet, and to be developed by the Emet store and its farmer. I'm passing this on to you as information. Fifty percent of these boron beds are in Emet, and these beds are very important to the world, but Bor took them from Emet, and unfortunately, they didn't have anything to do with Emet. Is there a plan to establish a Bor organized industrial zone? The road to Gediz-Emet is very bad, is there a tender for this road project? The cuts for municipal debt are too high, sometimes even workers' salaries are difficult to pay. Is there going to be an investment in these matters?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0527par0049	Mr. Secretary, please. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0530par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. All stressed that budget spending means a great deal to the community and that the budget should have a service budget for society rather than a logic of numbers. Let me make it clear that the 2017 budget, as in the previous 14 budgets, has been a budget based on public service, and has put all our citizens above all else, regardless of their beliefs, regardless of their nationality, regardless of their nationality, without any distinction; more education, more health care, more investments. Look, we're allocated 122 billion dollars for education in the 2017 budget; without any distinction, all our citizens are benefiting from this education service. Again, we have earmarked $111 billion from the budget for health care, and all our citizens benefit from these services without any distinction. We've made some really significant increases in the real sector budget in 2017. We support about $32 billion in real sectors in the 2017 budget. In particular, we continue to implement minimum wage benefits in the 2017 budget to reduce the labour market costs of our employers. Again, in this context, we delay the social security premium payments our employers will pay in January, February and March, in October, November and December. These are services common to all parts of society, the same understanding, which reflect equally. Look, in the 2017 budget, we give significant support to the agricultural sector, to our farmers. Our farmer has actually benefited greatly from this, along with the new supports that have been growing year after year. I don't want to burden you with numbers one by one again, but let me say there's a budget here on the basis of the social welfare of the 2017 budget, where our citizen needs education, health, social state practices, and so forth.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0531par0056	Mr. Secretary, that's not the answer to what I'm asking, I'm asking about the budget of the dianetin.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0530par0057	This budget has also been an important contribution to the development of civil society in social areas, culture, art, education, cultural life.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0531par0058	Mr. Secretary, I asked you about the Dianet's budget.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0532par0059	Mr. All, please!
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0530par0060	The 2017 budget has actually been a budget that supports investment, production, exports, employment, and let me say that we've been able to separate really important resources from the budget in this sense. Mr. Pine has made an assessment of the vet, food engineering and teachers in particular. You know, every year the budget laws set the number of short-term appointments. This was also determined by the 2017 budget law, and the number of staff to be suspended in 2017. Thus, according to the relevant legislation, the Minister of the State Staff will determine which title, based on the Minister of Finance's joint work, will be appointed for public staff employment in which area we are needed. Of course, demands are important here, and the needs and expectations of society are important. As we have done so far, in 2017, we will take a approach that will take into account those expectations while building staff policy. On the other hand, we all know how important budget discipline is to all of us. Let me make it very clear that we've adopted an approach to discipline in the Social Security System and in Social Security policies that actually considers active balances. Mr. Kayan, they've made an assessment of a hospital in Centipede, but if you'll excuse me -- I don't have any information at the moment -- what's the situation with the Ministry of Health that you're expressing after doing the necessary research, and let's also provide you with information, shall we? Mr. Akar, really, sugar factories are very important to us. Sugar factories are important to our farmers who produce sugar beets with one side, and we're taking every precaution to protect our sugar beets producer, to increase his well-being, to increase his income in this sector. Again, sugar factories are an important source of employment for us. Today we employ staffed personnel, both temporary staff and in our factories all over Asia Minor. Our sugar factories are important to the market, and it's important to the consumer. That's where our citizen in particular...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0533par0068	Minister, complete, please. Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0534par0070	Mr. Secretary, you haven't answered my question. I'm waiting for an answer.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0533par0071	Mr. All, please. Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0535par0072	Let me make it very clear that we're also trying to provide sugar at appropriate prices.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0534par0073	But, as a congressman, I expect an answer to my question, so what's natural about that right now?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0533par0074	Mr. Alli, I'm listening to the Minister right now. I'm sorry, I can't listen to you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0535par0075	Mr. Hurriyet, as you can imagine, I don't have any available information on the boron beds. But let's get the information on road construction, and let's get the information on organized industrial areas here. But let me put it this way: if we're going to develop as a country, if we're going to expand industry, then organized industrial areas are very important. We're increasing both the number of organised industrial regions, and we're increasing the available land volumes in organised industrial areas, and we're especially investing. In this area, of course, there is always the necessary work done in this area if necessary. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0533par0077	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0536par0078	Mr. Secretary, I want you to answer my question.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0533par0079	There are two motions on matter, and I'm going to read them: [[The motion has been read by Clerk Member Bolu MP Fehmi Küççü]] ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In the accompanying article (2) of the 6th article of the Central Management Budget Bill of the 2017 Central Management Budget...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0537par0083	Mr. Secretary, why don't you hear me? When it comes to Alevis, Minister, you've changed course. I talked about the budget of the President of Religious Affairs, the Alevis, Mr. Secretary, didn't you hear that, for God's sake? You've never heard of it?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0533par0084	Mr. All, I'm meeting the agenda right now, please. Please stay in formation, Mr. Alli.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0537par0085	I'm speaking for 15-20 million people here. I ask the Minister, they are citizens of this country, they pay taxes in this country.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0533par0086	Please, I'm in charge of the agenda and I'm on the agenda, Mr. All. Please, don't disrupt the working order.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0537par0087	Sir, they pay taxes. I'm expecting an answer from the Minister. You're just going to cut back on one cut, but don't you get taxes from Alevi? Is that conscience or is that justice? You're not answering my question. I mean, it's a shame, isn't it? Would a minister ignore it?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0533par0088	Continue reading the motion. [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Member Bolu MP Fehmi Küçü]] ........ we offer and propose that the expression be removed from the text of substance, regardless of the functional classification. Zechariah Haziel Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Kazim lion Ali hero Ancient doesn't stop ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey With the meeting, the 2017 Center Management of the Year...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0538par0097	With this, we build democracy, embrace our people, 78 million? Is that it? Be sincere. It's a shame! [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Member Bolu MP Fehmi Cubic]] We offer and propose that Article 6 of the Law of the Union Article (1) (a) be removed from the text of matter, and the order of the dam shall be arranged accordingly. Zechariah Haziel Ali Hero Musa Pine Cetin Arik Ancient Bihlun Tamayligil Ali Ekici Kazim Azlan Mehmet Bacheloroğlu
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0539par0106	Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0540par0107	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0539par0108	Government?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0541par0109	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0539par0110	I'm having it read. The 1st Article of Law 6761 and the 21st Article of Public Financial Control of Article 5018 are made by law to transfer funds between the budgets of public administrations under the Central Government. However, by failing to exceed 10 per cent of the overall budget grants to ensure savings and a balanced and effective budget policy, procedures and procedures and fundamentals are determined in the budget law of central management, as long as it does not exceed 10 per cent of the public administration's budgets." Officials in the basic principles of Law 5018 and incompatible with the financial system established by the Minister of Finance (a) with the subroutine of Article (1) of the Central Management Budget Law of 2017; among the budgets of general budgets and the budgets of private budgets (01), (02), (03), (06), (07), (08) and (09) are being paid by the public administration budgets budgets, or by the Ministry of Finance's "7 per cent." In the latest joke of Article 5018 of Law No. 5018, the provision also ignores the "in the budgets of public administrations; in the budgets of staff costs; in the layouts of personnel costs; in the order to transfer from transactions and subservient funds" limits to other structures. The same powers were granted to the Finance Minister in the central management budget laws for more extensive years earlier. When reviewing the spending tables on the grants on the Court's general fitness notifications from 2012 to 2015, it can't be transferred to public administration's personnel costs and social security institutions from the layouts made from the "Personal costs" of Article 21 Against the rules, it is understood that after being transferred by the Finance Minister to the Ministry of Finance's "Responsory Payment," it was transferred from here to the public administration's service and capital costs, so that public administration was forced to spend on the staff costs, more specifically, as if there were legal rules for overpayment in staff costs, as if there were to be overfunded by the public administrations and social security institutions outside the will of public administrations. The Ministry of Finance also violates the 87th Article of the Constitution (the Constitution), which provides the right to "make a budget" by avoiding the obligation to organise the "equivocacy bill" using this method. It is also contrary to the assessment and explanations of the Constitutional Court's 26/05/2016 date and E:2015/7, K:2016/47, which evaluated the application for the cancellation of Article 6/1-a of the Central Budget Law on 2015. The Finance Minister cannot be given broad powers without a framework, unspecified limitation, and the transfer of law enforcement authority. The setting of a limit for the transfer sum, such as 10% of the general budget grants, does not mean setting a frame, drawing a border. The budget law is proposed against Articles 2, 7, 87 and 161. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read...
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0542par0122	We're rolling, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0539par0123	The motion has been withdrawn. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Mr. Horseman, it looks like there's been a disaster. Let's get some information.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0543par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, there have been two disasters today in Mersin. One occurred in our districts of Anamur, Bozyazı and Aydıncık. A violent storm broke out and a large portion of the greenhouses were damaged. We'd like to make the necessary assessments and give our farmers a hand immediately. Dear friends, today's second disaster occurred at the center. A professor today had a propaganda study of the presidential system at a girls' dorm in the Credit and Homes Association. The Republican People's Party tried to be taken into custody because the youth groups opposed it. We don't find them right, and if you clearly fail the AKP, remove the State of Emergency, and we'll fight on equal terms. Do not take refuge behind the State of Emergency. You're afraid of the people, the CHP and everyone. Let's fight on equal terms. The people will not open the way to dictatorship. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0544par0132	There was a natural disaster. I thought you had a demand for words.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0545par0133	He told you about the natural disaster, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0544par0134	Anyway, well, Mr. Altay, it happened because I didn't mean to offend you. If you ask me again, I'll give it to you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0545par0135	Mr. President, what happened?
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0544par0136	If you ask me again, I'll give it to you anyway, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0545par0137	No, our friend also told me about the natural disaster, and he also told me about the humiliation of the Loan and Homeland Foundation.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0544par0138	Well, if only he'd made that shit clear, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0545par0139	So, according to 60, you promise all the MPs, but don't offer it as if you've given them something big. He told me about the natural disaster.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0544par0140	No, Mr. Altay, if he had said that, I would have promised him the reason. I'm reading the 7th article: MADDE 7- (1) 38.01 of the budget for the chairmanship of the Board of Higher Education. 02. 00-09. 4. 2. 20-2-05. The grant included in the 2 (Student Development Programme) arrangement is paid by considering the number of students assigned to the higher education institutions that provide graduate education under this programme, the number of students assigned to purchase goods and services. This sum is paid, on the one hand, in the internal income of the concerned higher education institution (B), while on the other hand, the institute of higher education is authorized to register funds for the table marked "A" (A). (2) was the first joke (d) of Article 43 of Higher Education Law 4/11/1981 (d), 44th, 46th, 58th, additional 25th, additional 25th and additional 27th Articles 19/11/1992, under Article 7/43, and other revenues are not registered as special income and special allowance to the budgets of higher education institutions. The amount and revenues collected are registered as self-inflicted income for the related higher education institution budget. In return for these recorded sums, the funds put into the budget of the relevant institute of higher education are used on the basis of revenues. (3) In return for self-inflicted income, no transfers can be made between the budget (a) of the higher education institution (except the transfers between the grants at the fourth level of functional categorization (with the exception of the transfers to the grants imposed in terms of self-inflicted income under the function of 9.6.0-Education Services function). A) The amount paid by relevant states or international organisations in exchange for expenses to foreign national students and staff who have been educated and studied at the National Security Directorate's institutes, B) As part of an agreement made by NATO authorities to pay for maintenance and repairs of auxiliary airports, C) The amount for customs and Trade Ministry services will be paid by the institution at 2 per cent of the bandrol fees that were collected by Customs Administrations to the Turkish Radio-Television Agency. On the one hand, it comes into the general budget for the same purpose, while on the other hand, it is authorized to save funds for private arrangements to be opened in the administration budgets and to transfer parts of the funds that are not spent within the year. Mr Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 7. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0546par0158	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 7 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act. I salute the grand jury. The announcement of the Syrian Turkmen Assembly to the world's public: the world has disappeared before the eyes of the world, Aleppo, it's over. Women, children, old people, they were left to starve, then to die. The regime and all its allies have united together and covered every inch of it with blood, Aleppo. The whole world ignored the cries and cries of the oppressed of Syria. They just watched Aleppo's destruction, his destruction. The bloody past of Western civilization has been cleared of its own blood, in a sense cleansed of its hands, the Nurnberg courts, The Hague contracts, the Courts of Justice, the Roman status, and so many others were counted as destroyed for Syria, for Aleppo. The United Nations Security Council and UN institutions have again done nothing in the face of a massacre. The laws, the rules, the laws, which the West called international law, were run by the oppressor, not by the oppressed. What you call "Halep" is now a bottomless, blind pit of conscience. Aleppo, your great powers have fallen victim to the dirty games of sovereignty of regional forces, which are eager to become great powers. But let the whole world know that Aleppo is not the one that was wiped out today; he is mankind. Once again, with Aleppo, all the false ideology of the civilized world has been destroyed once again, a series of values of the so-called civilization. Aleppo is no longer just Aleppo. Aleppo is now Vietnam, Hiroshima, Crimean. Aleppo is Ahiska, Srebrenica, Gaza, Rwanda, East Turkistan. Aleppo is now a disgrace to mankind. We know there's no need for a call, no need for a cry, no need for a whore. The word is finished, but let the world that closes its eyes to this violence know that even if we fall today -- praise be to Allah -- that we will rise again one day, even if we are banished, we will return to our land, to our homeland. Because it's a defeat, it's not a defeat. What you think I won is never victory. With the grace of the oppressed, with the blood of the innocent, you have only scratched the history of persecution. Remember, we are the people of this geography, the rightful owners of this land. One day we'll get what's rightfully ours. We have not yielded to your dirty games, your hundred-year plans, nor will we bow down. We will never stop fighting for honor and freedom until our last breath. These words are the promise of Syrian Turks to the world. Dear lawmakers, the regime and allies in eastern Aleppo, which have been under siege and heavy bombing since July, have slaughtered many civilians, including women and children, for four days. Heavy air bombings are being carried out simultaneously by mass executions against civilians. In the meantime, civilians who want to leave Aleppo are not allowed. The various groups, including Turkmen, and tens of thousands of civilians, have taken refuge in two neighborhoods in Aleppo. Right now, persecution in Aleppo is an international war crime. Unfortunately, the international community still has no clear will over Aleppo. The process operates against civilians at any moment. In Aleppo, tens of thousands of civilians are allowed to contact their relatives as well as to expect death. However, Aleppo was provided. Although it was said, the massacre is still under way in Aleppo, and Iranian forces are trying to surround Aleppo. I condemn and condemn the human drama and massacre of Aleppo. Dear lawmakers, if we talk about budgets, the 17th article of the 2017 budget law shall be authorized to register self-inflicted income in the budget of the Council of Higher Education, the amount paid by the relevant states or international organisations, the amount collected under Articles 2547 of Law 3843 and other revenues taken under Law 3843, and the budget of other revenues taken by the Security General Directorate may be registered as self-inflicted, and the payment of the funds paid by the relevant state or international institutions, shall be made under the agreement made by NATO authorities. Dear lawmakers had been appointed to the SEC for students at universities under the rule of law issued under the state of emergency, but for 65,000 students who have been closed by SEC decisions, the victims have reached a severe stage. These students are in danger of extending their education by not counting the courses they have taken in the schools they have attended before. The SEC has also decided that schools that have been shut down in students' diplomas will be included. This decision violates the rule of law. Crime is personal, and criminal punishment only binds the perpetrator. They were also granted a degree in rank and status for those who have earned the right to a first degree by successfully completing six months of training to Petty Officers College, which was provided by the Army Command, but were first considered suspended. Here, too, many young people have been victimized, and their fate remains uncertain. Dear lawmakers, the National Movement Party wants to eliminate traitors who attempt to destroy Turkish state and Turkish nation, waiting to be fought until the last terrorist is destroyed, which is why we support the fight. However, we expect the government to take into account the intense disturbances and calls that the criminal and the innocent are mixed up. The teacher's training programme, launched by the YÖK in 2010, was provided to have a master's and a doctorate at advanced universities in order to raise academics for underdeveloped or newly established universities. In accordance with Law Code No. 674, researchers under the Teaching Council have been included in Articles 50/D of Law No. 2547, such as their staff, and their jobs have been taken away from them. The post-doc positions of the research staff assigned as part of the teacher's training programme have been abandoned to uncertainty. As is known, there is a search for grade averages, foreign languages, ALES points in teaching programme purchases. The average of these 3 points must be high in order for a person to gain access to this staff by cheating. However, by this verdict, the guilty were not discriminated against, but all CSI academics were victimised. On November 10, 2016, in talks at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the motion that we submitted as the National Movement Party Group on Article 49 of the Law Code No. 674 to end the persecution of academics was not accepted by AKP MPs. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish for our country to be at peace and to have the best of our country, our country, and our nation, before we take the law of the oppressed, and act against the Constitution and the law, but I don't want to leave without saying these words. Let the whole world know that we don't allow Turkish nationalists, especially the Nationalist Movement Party and its economists, to judge anyone's sense of nationalism.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0547par0173	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0546par0174	There's no one here to weigh our idea of nationalism. We've been paying the price, paying the price, paying the price, for over 50 years. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0547par0177	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Adana MP Zulfikar Inönu Division will speak. Here you go, Mr. Division.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0548par0181	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, my condolences to our officers, our citizens, and all our martyrs, all our people, their families, and Turkey, who have been killed in the treacherous bombings in Istanbul. The 7th article, which I have promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party, authorises the Minister of Finance to make technical arrangements for the use of the budget's funds and transfer some funds to the next year. The Finance Minister, who is tasked with managing the budget, must be granted these powers normally due to certain obligations, but some institutions cannot provide adequate services from lack of funds, while some institutions cannot. For example, there is not enough funding for education, health, culture, or local governments when the TRT is being transferred from all kinds of revenues. Unusable funds can be used to build student dorms, for example, instead of being transferred next year. As it is known, just two weeks ago, we were shaken by a fire that broke our hearts in Aladağ County. The house fire, where 12 of our people burned to death, including 11 children, made it clear that we had to face the facts. There are terrible consequences for children of elementary school to be forced to live away from their families in dorms run by various groups. As in the villages of Bridgecuk, Karahan and Wintery mountains, which lack transportation, education, health and social resources, the absence of primary schools in many of Turkey's villages cannot be based on reason. Because of the lack of school and teachers, we must prevent our young children from being sentenced to various dormitories. Schools closed in such places must be reopened. Children of national education should not be forced to live in dorms. Bless our children who have died in various cities in our country and in Aladağ. My condolences to their families, relatives, and our country. Dear lawmakers, aside from the general issues of the budget, I'd like to talk a little bit about my constituency. Its historical, natural, cultural beauty, geographical structure, climate, and the intersecting and intersecting of many civilizations are an important province that today maintains its economic and strategic appeal. Adana, who has subterranean and subterranean resources, has also acquired a certain industrial culture from hundreds of years ago, is one of our cities that has made significant contributions to the country's economy and potential for development, but unfortunately, our city is also struggling with many problems, as it cannot assess its potential. Returning to the story of the snake, Adana's light rail system has been deployed despite all its shortcomings, but has been promised, and has not yet been transferred to the Transport Ministry, so it remains the hump of our city. Because of the debts of the rail system, Adana's future is mortgaged. We demand that this matter be done over and over again as soon as possible. I'd also like to talk about Ceyhan's investments in energy-related industry and Ceyhan's organised industrial district, which is also suffering from a huge uncertainty. And there's no place for these investments that we've been looking forward to for years. In order for investments to be realized, the allocations must be made immediately. ▪ Location selection has been made and studies continue. No concrete step has been taken in response to the explanations. Moreover, despite the years that have passed, there is widespread speculation that investments have been blocked. Although Adana has the world's most fertile land, which can be bought three products a year, it is unable to assess its agricultural potential due to wrong agricultural policies. Agriculture may be the only industry in the region that can make its way out of the stalemate of the region's economy. For this, it is necessary to ensure the use of this potential with the regional incentive system for exports. However, the latest public-based agricultural support incentive system has been disappointing to the Çukurovan manufacturer. It is evident that this incentive system does not match the reality of the region in Adana, where the citrus and the age vegetable produce is heavily produced. In the region, you must go to a structure that meets producers' expectations and listen to the voice of farmers while planning national agriculture. In Adana, 539,000 hectares of agricultural land are watered by 46 per cent, or 250,000 hectares. The watering project of the Seven-Eye Dam must be launched as soon as 65 per cent of the waterable farmland is watered in Adana. Because it is expected to reach 85 per cent of the waterable farmland as the dam goes into operation. At the same time, the Lower Seyhan Plain Closed System Watering Project is vital to the Adanan manufacturer. In view of the decline of water in our dams, the efficient use of soil and water has become clear to us the urgency of closed-system projects in order to increase production. Members of parliament, Adana, who has hosted many civilizations throughout history, also has a high potential for culture, nature and sea tourism, but that potential is unfortunately unresolved. Although there is no significant investment in tourism in our province so far, it can be transformed into an advantage in the event of a future tourism plan. Important contributions can be made to both the city and the country's economy with a plan to determine the tourist values of the province, to promote and promote these values, to build investments such as housing facilities. The problems of the Syrians who fled the civil war in their country and took refuge in our country are also directly affecting the socioeconomic life of the city; their unregistered, tax, non-privileged businesses are causing serious problems in the Adanan tradesmen. Humanity problems with Syrian asylum seekers are considerable. Refugees who lack the most basic housing, health care, education, and transportation need to be seriously focused on their problems and produced solutions. It is also possible that there will be many different problems in Adana, one of the top five cities of the Syrians. You're also aware that if these facts are ignored, there will be difficult problems to compensate for. Respected MPs, Adana has many problems, such as unemployment and education, which unfortunately are facing solutions. It is among the provinces that take both migration and migration, particularly in the immigration province, causing infrastructure problems, economic and social problems. Adana has a higher unemployment rate than Turkey's average, and is behind Turkey in terms of participation in the labour force and employment rate. The city's labour market is very sensitive to crises. During the crisis, unemployment rose rapidly, reaching the highest unemployment rate in 81 districts. The problems in tourism are a separate source of sadness. Unfortunately, even the filly rates of hotels in our province are very low, and hotel investors are thinking about land and earth. With the diversity of production, agricultural potential, port, free zone, and external economic structure, foreign trade volume is increasingly open to development, but given its resources and geopolitical position, exports are hardly sufficient. As of the end of 2015, Adana exports, which are $1.7 billion, have a very low share in the total export of Turkey. Adana's exports and imports were both reduced in October 2016, while exports of 8.5 per cent dropped by 13.4 per cent last year. In the last three years, investment incentive documents to the province of Adana have been examined for fixed investments, and they face a grave picture. So it turns out that the local capital rate, 97.8 per cent in 2014, dropped to 35.7 per cent by the end of October in 2015. Dear friends, with all this data, our region must immediately receive its share of the central budget and find solutions to its problems. As we follow the promises, we will strive to bring the work that must be done to life as quickly as possible. We all have problems together, and I believe that we need to take steps without spending time together to solve problems. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these feelings and thoughts, he wishes the budget to be good for Turkey, and I wish all our citizens a healthy and peaceful day.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0549par0200	Thank you, Mr. Division. Mr. Leyla Şahin will speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0550par0204	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have been promised to speak on Article 7 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act. First of all, I condemn the traitorous terrorist attack that took place in Istanbul, our Indian martyrs, Emre Rooster, Metin Güçük, Oğuzhan Özar, to our heroes who died in the prime of their lives, I pray to God for mercy, immediate healing, and patience for our veterans and our families. Mr. President, we all see the point of the world today. On one hand, Turkey must be strong in the Middle Eastern geography, where wars, persecutions rule, a Europe that cannot solve its problems, is increasingly self-destructive. Of course, there are those who are disturbed by this power and dream of dividing us, tearing us apart, and invading our lands. We didn't give it a chance until today, and we won't give it a chance anymore. Terrorist organizations must know that no matter what they do, they will never break the unity and integrity of this country. No matter where they come from, they won't achieve their goals. I'm telling you today, you're still not going to be able to succeed those who think of themselves as intellectual, progressive, regressive, and dark in their so-called democracies and try to make this society something else. By the recognition of our nation as the EC PARTI -- look, this is very important -- despite efforts to block the custody focal points of our nation, when we come to work and declare our will to rule Turkey, where will you find resources for us? With this ideal, we have increased Turkey's resources to a strong and ambitious position in the world, which we have taken over in a major crisis, using our country's resources for our country. It's a success story of strange gurus, orphans, orphans, and oppressed people who have expanded their understanding of the social state to all Turkey, even to the underdogs outside our borders. We're a movement that takes a small hand that's in place, earns his heart, kisses the hands of our grown-ups, prays for charity, and moves on with this power. THAT'S WHAT MAKES AK PARTY DIFFERENT. Mr. President, we have shown the world with the democratic stability and construction of our country by not only solving our country's accumulated problems through the great transformation that we've built in 14 years, we've shown it to the world. It was under the leadership of our President, who raised the world up for Aleppo, whose entire world remained silent, who had not moved a muscle, and who called this massacre a halt. The important thing is, I invite all international agencies to fulfill their responsibilities in Syria to reach an immediate solution. We do not watch a film in the middle of the 20th century; we watch living people die of war, bombs, hunger, and cold. How many more children, women, innocents and civilians will you watch die, O Europe, who considers himself the cradle of human rights and democracy, O America, O Russia, O Iran? Do you wait decades to commemorate and condemn this massacre, as you did in Srebrenica? We, on the side of peace and oppression, will never shut up. I hold the quiet world responsible for what they've done more than they've done. Unless Aleppo is saved, the world will not rest until war is over in Syria. As Turkey, we, knowing our responsibility again, extend our hand to all the people who are fighting for life in Aleppo, and thank you to this great nation who are mobilising. I congratulate everyone who tried to live up to the people there with 60 trucks and 300 trucks from all over Turkey alone. By maintaining unity and unity in our service to the nation, we will continue to work with the same determination and hope for the oppressed. While our budget calls for good for our country, for our nation, for our economy, for God's sake, for the cradle of civilization, for the city of tolerance, for the city of Ionya, which is being held every year in our city, I offer my respects to the 743th anniversary of Vuslat International Memorial Ceremonies, and to the honorable delegation, awaiting the arrival of all our people and you.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0551par0213	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 8- (1) Added to Law 5018 (I) and (II) public administrations; A) Payments to people who will be bought or employed for a period of no more than a month in the year, provided they are limited to their beelike work, B) Payment to those who have been bought part-time service under the legislation concerned, C) 5/6/1986 payment to students who have vocational education in candidates, apprentices and businesses under Article 25 of the Code for Professional Education No. 3308, ) The payment to temporary staff, issued under Article 4 (C), dated 14/7/1965 and under Article 657 of the Law of State Officers (C), The budgets (01.4) can not exceed the funds in the economic code (01.4) and cannot be invested in the economic code, except in other schemes of budgets (except in the transactions between them and the transfers made under the second joke of Article 6 of the Article 6), and cannot be transferred and cannot be spent overfunded. However, due to privatisation practices, the Minister of Finance is authorized to transfer the amount needed to pay for academic jury fees from those who have been terminated under the provision of Article 4 (C) of the Law under the sentence of Article 657 (C). (2) The transports on this Law (T) table can be obtained by the Council of Ministers' decision on the proposal of the ministry regarding the emergency and mandatory conditions. The public administrations, which are included in Law No. 5018 (I) and (II), can employ permanent workers and temporary workers, dated 4/4/2007 and under Law 5620 (01.3) in the economic codes of their budget (02.3) and will not exceed the funds in the economic codes (02.3). The Minister of Finance is authorized to provide funds due to collective agreements on these workers, payment of information and severance pay, minimum wage and insurance premium increases. The economic codes mentioned in this joke cannot be paid for in any way (except between the transfers between the economic codes and between the units for these codes), as well as labour fees and/or overwork fees from other arrangements of the budget can't be paid. The restrictions on the transfer of funds in this joke do not apply to TBITAK on the condition that they be transferred from their budget arrangements. In addition to Law (4) 5018 (I) and (II) the expense authorities of public administrations are obliged to do business programmes on the basis of the grant provided by continuous workers and temporary workers in accordance with Law 5620, which they will employ for more work, not to overwork and/or overwork the next year due to extra work and/or overwork. There is no way to transfer funds to pay overtime and/or overwork fees, except for transfers related to the earthquake, fire, flood, landslide, rock falling, overwork due to overwork fees, according to the decisions of the Council of Ministers, which will be carried out due to avalanches and so on. (5) International agreements under the general budget and private budgetary administrations cannot be made by international organisations outside the international institutions, which have been adopted according to law and decrees, without the appropriate view of the Finance Ministry's grant, and no payment can be made under the name of membership due to its share of membership. (6) The 5th joke sentence is not imposed on international agreements, laws and decrees by the Ministry of Economics and the Undersecretary of Treasury, including the payment of participation in international organisations (including the payment of participation in the Republic of Turkey). (7) The education and recreation facility, run by the central administration of the public administration, is covered by the costs of homes, day care homes, day care centers, sports facilities and so on, and revenues from the operating of these private facilities. In these areas, new employees will be employed for the first time in 2017 to be paid for the return capital and funds with the central management budget. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, MP Mustafa Kalaycı will speak. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0552par0232	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 8 of the 2017 Budget Bill. In Article (1), the basis for the payment of public administrations in exchange for temporary service is subject to the ruling. Compensation for students who have vocational education and vocational training in candidates, apprentices and businesses is also organised under the Code of Professional Education 3308, which does not exceed the grants. Although there are millions of unemployed people in our country, our employers today have difficulty finding qualified employees they are looking for, even in some professions. In this respect, vocational education and training should be encouraged by various tools, training towards qualified human power-industrial cooperation policies must be supported. Apprentices and internships should be made especially meaningful in terms of insurance. There is a very intense and righteous demand that apprentices and internships be counted into the pension service, because their internships and internships have no meaning, no sense of retirement. As apprentices and interns, the hours they work for, while being called insurance card and insurance number, are not considered in retirement, nor are they allowed to borrow. However, there are some times in which insurance holders in Article 41 of Law 5510 can be borrowed without a study or insurance policy, but the period in which they are actually employed and internships is not taken into account. Mr. Secretary, it is clearly unfair not to consider the lengths of military service, doctoral or expertise without insurance, the lengths spent abroad as an official student without insurance, the hours of physicians as honorary assistants, the hours of law enforcement without insurance, the possibility to borrow without insurance, and the hours of employment and internship not to be counted from service, equality and rights. In addition to resolving the persecution of the Constitution by considering the principles of equality and justice, apprenticeship or internships should be considered to contribute to the incentive of vocational education and training, which should be given credit for past periods and should be taken into account in the history of insurance. The government is also doing a conflicting exercise in this regard. While the Social Security Agency does not count both apprentices and internships as services and does not allow women to borrow pre-insurance births, it allows them to borrow money from apprentices and internships. This practice reveals the contradictions and inconsistencies of the institution. Therefore, the legal arrangement for the service of internships and apprenticeships and for women to be able to borrow money for pre-insurance births must be made immediately. It must be considered that men should be allowed to borrow money for pre-insurance births as well as for women, as they are allowed to borrow military debts because they are away from their working life. Dear lawmakers, the clause also stipulates that the payments to temporary personnel employed under Article 4 (c) of public administration number 657 should be paid in a way that does not exceed the grants. The services of the 4/C are public tasks that are continuous. It is a fact that they have been employed for many years and have retired from this place, although they have been described as temporary. Therefore, the current practice is contrary to the rhetoric and spirit of the law. People of 4/C are being victimized, treated as stepchildren. The people of 4/C are unable to receive financial and social rights from their peers who do the same work. In recent years, contractors and employees of some proxy status have been taken into office, while victims of 4/C have been humbled. There should be no discrimination among public employees, no exploitation of the labor of employees. Those who have been victimized for years must be given their rights. Even religious officials are discriminated against. Acting imams are entitled to half the salary taken by staff members working under the same conditions. Fahri educators work for 600-700 lira a month, and the insurance premiums are deposited over ten to fifteen days. Half the salary they receive is not as much right as the ISKUR employees who work for honorary teachers who go for road money. Acting imams and professors of honorary Koran courses, with no job guarantees and limited social resources, are orphans of the unclaimed Dianet in their own institutions. It is either against the principles of justice and equality that the practice of our brothers who have either graduated from theology or graduated from the licensing theology or have a memory is incompatible with justice and equality. The deputy imam and honor teachers who passed through the merit filter before taking office, passing all the qualifying tests of the President of Religious Affairs and every year of their duties, are looking forward to the day when the government will take care of them. In Article (3) of the article, the number and duration of employment of permanent employees and temporary workers who are subject to Law 5620 are organised by the public administration. In various public administrations such as municipalities, sugar factories, tea factories, forest administration, agriculture and railways, temporary workers, regular workers, campaign workers, and seasonal workers have not been recruited for many years. When temporary and seasonal workers can't find work when they can't work, do you ever wonder how our friends, who have no unemployment allowances in the months they don't work, can support their families? In fact, most temporary and seasonal workers work in the noble work of the public. The strange thing is that when public institutions don't employ these workers, they tend to supply personnel with subcontractors and ISKUR employees. In the event of temporary and seasonal labor, there will be no need for a service tender, but there will be increased efficiency in the workplace, as the staff issue will be resolved. These workers who have been successful for years, who have been useful to the workplace with their knowledge, skill, and experience must be ensured. On May 30, 2015, the Prime Minister and Labour Minister announced in the presence of workers that the work limit for temporary workers will be lifted. The 9th article of the Public Community Business Contracts Framework Agreement Protocol was also convicted for this purpose. It has been announced that this matter will be presented to Parliament and that it will be passed quickly. Before the elections, the prophecy was given, but after the elections passed, temporary workers were ignored. Temporarily and seasonal workers keep calling, saying they've forgotten us. They're suffering and disappointed. I invite the government to stand by its promise to temporary and seasonal workers. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0553par0241	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan will speak. Here you are, Mr. Bilgehan.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0554par0245	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow congressmen, I salute you. The Justice and Development Party is holding the 15th budget talks at the Turkish Grand National Assembly of the ruling period. The budget has never been discussed under these conditions. Few of the MPs who brought the party to power in 2002 now see Mr. Ilılı. I really want to know what the ruling lawmakers of the 22nd term, who are not on the General Assembly today, think. I know that some of them are concerned and upset about the situation that has been brought into the country. I guess that wasn't their goal. Turkey was among the countries most damaged by terrorism in the world last year's terrorist attacks. We're in some Middle East and African states group. There were massacres in Egypt, Somalia, Nigeria and Yemen on the night of the traitorous attack near the Inönu Stadium in Istanbul Beşiktaş. In Nigeria, suicide activists were two girls of the age of 7 and 8. Our heart was torn apart for the little child of the martyr who asked, "Why is my father in that box?" It was the teachers who joined the riot squad because some of the young people who lost their lives couldn't be assigned, so that means that maybe they didn't even have any training in security. In fact, no one feels safe anymore, their children. Every day, the possibility of a variety of attacks is brought up, and how horrible it is that some of them are happening. Yes, terrorism is the biggest problem in the world, but in modern countries, in some countries, the people responsible for the damage done by citizens are wanted and are doing what is necessary. How did we end up like this? We were the only country in the whole Islamic world with a chance to join the European Union. Today, let alone the candidacy process, the negotiations have already been frozen in the last ten years, and we're not even missing the free movement that 60 countries have taken advantage of. More than that, even in the Council of Europe, which has been known as a founding member since 1949 and is known as the fortress of human rights and democracy, we lost face ten years ago. The European institutions, however, supported the initiatives of the Justice and Development Party in Turkey, reform packages, zero tolerance for torture, lifting DGMESTs, the end of the State of Emergency, amendments to the Penal Code, Civil Law. Although there was also a suspicion of a hidden agenda for those who were concerned about the corrosion of secularism and republican values at the time, but most importantly, friends, the era of coups was over. On the 15th of July, we saw with terror that while dealing with the republic's founding fathers who are no longer alive, today's rulers have been betrayed by those closest to them. All institutions of the Republic, especially the Turkish Armed Forces, ministries, judiciary, universities, have been occupied despite warnings from those who have been concerned for years about the existence of a secret organisation. Recently, Foreign Minister Mr. Sergeyoglu has announced that more than 500 employees in his Ministry have been suspended as suspects in the European Council. It's amazing what an important ministry like the State Department has become like. Well, when that happens, it's common to make mistakes after mistakes in foreign policy. Dear friends, in the Middle East, we were a respectable country that could speak to both Israel and Palestine. With the formation of the Republic, we once wished for success in determining our own fates for the countries under our dominion. Turkey, which won its sovereignty in the Liberation War, was a model country in the region. We weren't interfering with our neighbors' internal affairs, we weren't spreading things. We were able to wipe the devastating consequences of those eager for adventure in World War I in Lausanne. That's exactly what the President said today. That's nice. Yes, Lausanne was first of all a peace treaty. Our goal was peace in the dorm, peace in the world, and we had not strayed from that line until the last few years. But in recent years, we've had a fight with him, a fight with him, and then we've made up. What's happening is happening to our citizens who are victims of this variable policy. The bill for the Russian crisis is $10 billion. Yes, our growth rate once increased by structural and institutional regulations in the economy to 6%. Our contractors, our organizations, like Turkish Airlines, even our soap operas, became our best representatives in the world. The recession in the economy was presented by our friends with numbers. But even in such an important area, it's amazing what the authorities say. In the new calculations on the growth data, the Deputy Director of the Turkish Statistical Agency said they were working on international standards, while the European Statistical institution said that EUROSTAT experts took girls from us as evidence of their technical relationship with EUROSTAT. I mean, I don't know if there's a scientific explanation for this. Also, I don't think it's very good news, but according to the study of the Working Mothers' Thousand Day, one of the four women working in Turkey leaves after they marry and have children. Women's employment has increased in recent years, but it's still around 30 per cent, and the EU average is 66 per cent. We're the last of the OECD countries. It would have been midnight if it hadn't been for the CHP MPs. During budget talks, the fact that there are almost no women between the Council of Ministers and the bureaucrats already reflects the fact that there are no women. Dear MPs, the heart would love to discuss our problems here, as in any parliamentary system, and find solutions. On the last day of the budget, have we seen the right criticism of opposition lawmakers being taken into account? In the history of the republic, however, some ministry budgets have been rejected by lawmakers in parliament. Look, especially our friends have brought up their concerns about the level of education that the country has come to. When the PISA results came out, I was in Paris for the Council of Europe meeting. The government and the opposition questioned the system because France had only achieved its OECD average. Isn't it a good example to compare yesterday to yesterday, when a Saint Sancar (St. Sancar) who studied elementary school and high school years ago won Nobel Prize in science? Today, our children are no longer allowed to attend schools in their neighborhoods. There are hundreds of thousands of students who left 4+4 in the second half and were directed to open education. The fourth power of democracy is freedom of the press: Turkey, according to the latest international media watchdogs, is the country where the most journalists in the world are in prison. Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights has determined freedom of expression and the rights of journalists. In chapter one, it says that public information and journalists must be protected from all kinds of pressure. But the second part also highlights the journalist's responsibilities and limitations. The most important thing about this is to write the truth. According to the ECHR, politicians in particular need to be more tolerant of criticism than others, and they need to accept that disturbing news is part of freedom of expression. Meanwhile, journalism is considered one of the most dangerous professions in most of the European Council countries. In some countries, opposition journalists are killed directly, targeted in the field of conflict, no job security, auto-sensorship is extremely common. The role of the press in the fight against terrorism is also important, but the freedom of public information must not be restricted, especially from obstruction of journalists in the fight against corruption. The Council of Europe's Group of States Against Corruption (GRECO) stressed in Turkey's assessment reports that the failures expressed should be corrected. GRECO specifically points to ethical principles, the establishment of rules of conduct, obstruction of illegal activities, reporting goods and revenues on members of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, judges and prosecutors. Of course, our main problem is the independence of the judiciary. Are we a state of law or not? Several years ago, other journalists and lawmakers were in prison, and those who had been deprived of their freedoms for many years were wronged. They apologized, and we don't know how today's practices will be evaluated in the future. Dear friends, as a result, we must all find ways to live as brothers in this country. Today's meeting of leaders against terror wishes for a positive outcome, and I give you my regards. I was the last speaker, so good evening.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit08spe0555par0263	Thank you. Good night, good evening. Congressmans, I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article has been passed. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-14sit09spe0555par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 40th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since there is no other work available on our agenda, the programme says that on Thursday (December 15th 2016), it is 11 p.m. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00. Thank you, and good night.
