tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Have a good day at work, lawmakers. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Bursa MP Erkan Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have been promised the 42nd anniversary of Operation Peace of Cyprus. First, on the night of July 15th, I condemn the coup attempt on our democracy, and pay tribute to our great House, which stands firm in the face of these treacherous plans. The history of our Turkish Armed Forces, who are the center of criticism for a group of juntas' coup attempt, is full of glorious achievements. Harpte, we owe thanks to our hero Mehmet-dik, who put his life on the line for his country in the fight against terrorism, as we did yesterday. Once again, I would like to point out that we are proud of the overwhelming majority of the people who love the country, the nation, and the flag, of the Turkish Armed Forces, which our people call the "Greece." I hereby celebrate the 42nd anniversary of Operation Peace in Cyprus. In Cyprus, there was an understanding of our descendants, our children, our women, who brutally killed and slaughtered in the bathtubs, and in the face of that understanding, there was an understanding of the United States of America. The Prime Minister of the period that took Ayþe (Aisha) against his fleet on vacation, I also bless the late Bkent Ecevit (Ecevit). Along with him, I remember the late Deputy Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan, the late Turkish Cypriot leader Fazil Küçük, the 1st President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, the great statesman Rauf Denktas, with mercy and respect. Again, because their names were not found in the five-fingered mountains, which were lost during the operation, Mehmetchik, who wrote unnamed on the gravestones, remembers our name from here with mercy and thanks to our veterans. Dear lawmakers, before the action, the juntist Greek officers were holding massacres against Turkish Cypriots. Many of our citizens lost their lives as the head of the church, Makarios, contributed indirectly or directly to the massacres. The country, which was our government's garanteur at the time, carried out diplomatic efforts with Britain and many countries, but when efforts failed to respond positively, Turkish Armed Forces were ordered to act on 20 July 1974, and the operation soon concluded, peace and peace for both Turkish Cypriots and Greeks. In his speech from the bench on July 20, 1974, the deceased Ecevit expressed hope and determination to act on this platform, saying: "If perhaps, in the need of their regime, those who have strayed from the path of reason, if they do not act insanely, soon the island, our region, will have peace, and new possibilities for Cyprus will be opened." The faith of Ecevit (Ecevit), who was applauded standing up, was soon rewarded. And I'd like to remind you that at that time, especially on national issues, there was cooperation and tolerance in the House. It gives me hope for our democracy to see the same tolerance from last Saturday. Dear lawmakers, there have been frequent talks between the two communities to ensure lasting peace over the past forty-two years, but our people and our High Assembly do not have much knowledge of the bargain in these talks. What about Turkey's garantism after a possible deal? What will happen to the Turks living on the island? Will our soldier in the island be sent back? None of these questions have been answered, unfortunately. For once, Mr. Secretary of State must come and give our Parliament and our nation the information of the talks on this matter before this stand and satisfy the public. In the end, if there is an agreement, the right to say the final word, as a garantitarian country, is in our great nation and in our Parliament. I am also concerned that our parliament and our nation will meet the one that has ended because there are very rich sources of natural gas and oil in the Mediterranean, and many countries are also fueling their appetites. I'm saying that the State Department, the Foreign Minister, should be cleared of this situation immediately. And I salute our High Council with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0003par0021	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Erzurum MP Orhan Delibaş, who wants to talk about the July 15 coup attempt, its goals and its consequences. Here you go, Mr. Crazy Eyes.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0004par0026	Friend! Don't let the scoundrels into my house. Take cover. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, from my district of Narman, who has been killed in this treacherous coup attempt by the bomb and bullets, my neighbor, Fırat Bulut and my relative Lokman Býdýci, remember all of our sainted martyrs, and wish our wounded a speedy recovery from Allah. The Mutts who planned the coup on July 15, 2016 admitted that the people who launched the coup were the impostors of Hashashi, the traitor, the members of the Fethullahist terrorist organization, and the heads of foreign missions, nestled inside our Turkish Armed Forces. Speaking on Fox News TV on the night of the coup, former US military intelligence officer Colonel Peters.The situation is clear: This is the final requirement for Turkey to avoid being an Islamic dictatorship, so let's not make any mistakes. The men who played a part in this coup were good men. In addition, it is also necessary for an Egyptian journalist to use the expression "Obama" to speak to Obama. In 1099, he again entered Jerusalem on 15 July and slaughtered Muslims. This coup attempt is a continuation of the Crusade mentality, and it seems that the tail pain in Çanakkale has yet to pass. The purpose of these traitors is to divide our country, tear it apart, transform it into Syria, Iraq, Egypt, and hand over part of our homeland to the separatist PKK terrorist organization, and apparently the terrorist attacks and live bombs we've experienced so far have been supported by the same treacherous focal points. Our nation's determination and determination have been cut off in front of this treacherous group that is trying to prevent our national will and democracy. Because we're not going to leave our country to those who don't know what they're doing. What happened is a matter of country, and we will never leave our country. Our president's determination and determination, the faith and upright position of our Prime Minister, our ministers, you lawmakers in unity and unity, our police, and most importantly, our people have given terrorists the best answer. It is once again understood that this glorious nation is a great nation. I congratulate our people, who have fought one-on-one against traitors in the streets and pray in every corner of the land. I also want to thank the leaders of our opposition parties for their sensitivity to the coup. Our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has once again shown that he is a man of the nation, with the people's love and discretion, with the dignity, the upright posture, the tenacity and determination. During the coup attempt, we, our Minister of Health and Erzurum MPs, were all four of us at Erzurum. At the start of the movement, Nene Hatun. Her grandson, 150,000 Dadash, filled Erzurum Republic Square with a packed response to the coupists and prevented the traitors from moving in our city. On the fifth day of the initiative, the country's watch continues in Erzurum, as in all Turkey, with the same desire and desire. I'd like to thank the brothers and all of Turkey who have not left the squares empty. The Erzurum Congress of the Liberation War, which today defies the coup attempt, has only one request from our friends and our nation's great Parliament, that the execution be restored. We can't ignore the people's demand as Congress. This issue should be discussed in this Veteran Assembly, which has not been harmed even in wars, which is bombed by traitors. Fethullah Gulen, leader of the terrorist organization, must be handed over to our country by the United States at once. Is it holy that we have opened a breach in the wall, Oh, you bitch of a wind! No matter where you go, no matter where you go. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0005par0039	Thank you, Mr. Crazy Eyes. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak (Afyonkarahisar) who asked for a comment on the July 15 coup attempt. Here you go, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0006par0043	Ladies and gentlemen of the honorable Turkish nation, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. We've always greeted the Veteran Assembly on these platforms. Our coven is a veteran, but as of July 15th, this Veteran Parliament has once again been capricious. Once again, I salute the mighty Turkish nation under this lofty roof. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On the night of July 15, 2016, on the night of July 15, 2016, we encountered a coup attempt in the case of the building's extensions of the Turkish Armed Forces, which is a junta's national sovereignty, our national unity, our integrity, and in this direction the biggest of betrayals. So first of all, I'd like to stress at the beginning of my words that we condemn this relentless, yet relentless coup attempt, and that the responsible soldiers, bureaucrats, officials, politicians, whoever they are, must be called to full account. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, I ask the Lord God to have mercy on all of our martyrs who have received Rahmatirahman since then. To our veterans, to our wounded citizens, but also to our soldiers, to our police. I wish our nation patience because of our dead, fallen soldiers, our policemen, our citizens, and for the circumstances that have arisen. We, the National Movement Party, are a representative and a continuation of a movement whose approach is better than the worst democracy than the best blow. On the night of the coup attempt in this scope, I'd like to proudly express the most severe and clear attitude to this coup attempt, from the position of our leader, from his stance on that day, from his attitude, from his behavior on that day, that the impact has changed, the flow of water has changed. So I believe that every aspect of this grave event needs to be illuminated. And I stress that all of the data that has been obtained due to this event, which should be illuminated in every way, should be shared with us and with our beloved nation in all its dimensions, except for some exceptions regarding national security, public order and public interest. In particular, I would like to highlight some of our important views on what needs to be done after this process, under the headlines, since we can only express this much in a very long but five minutes. Look, respected lawmakers, the biggest damage the terrorist organization has done is to our justice. Therefore, in all the challenges that are going to take place from this moment forward, both in the administrative procedures in the bureaucracy, both in the ongoing investigations, and in the judicial activities that we believe will be carried out in a very short period of time, we need to take the basis of justice first and foremost. If we separate from justice and establish administrative action, if we put justice aside and conduct an investigation, if we ignore justice and judge, then that's when the coup attempt will be concluded. It's extremely important. We, the National Movement Party, have warned repeatedly and verbally since March 2011. Look, I'm sorry to have to remind you of that. While we were making these warnings, even the crows laughed at it. Now the crows don't laugh at the situation we're in, they're crying at 80 million. Therefore, we must remind you of this responsibility. What did they want, and what did they not give? What we've just learned today is that we're learning today that the Fethullah Gulen (Fethullah)'s salary has been cut, even though it's considered a 17-25-period coup attempt. Therefore, it is necessary to put up a proper fight, but never to leave justice, and to punish all those responsible in the most violent, most violent way to the end. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0007par0053	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. Congressmans, I'm going to promise the first 15 MPs to enter the system a minute of their position. Mr. Özdemir, come in.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0008par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. I curse the coup attempt of a junta and collaborators within our Turkish Armed Forces against our parliamentary democracy and the attack on our Turkish Grand National Assembly. I believe it's imperative that the ruling party make a self-criticism about the formation of this structure in state institutions so that we don't face any more events like July 15th. I believe the task ahead is to account for the coupgers, the rule of law and the strengthening of our destroyed democracy. The future of our country is in the principles of democracy and the rule of law. As the Republican People's Party and the main opposition party, we once again declare that we will continue to make every effort for the strengthening of our parliamentary system and for the liberal democracy of the republic.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0007par0060	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Mr. Yilmaztekin...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0009par0063	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to say, on behalf of this great nation represented by the veterans of the Veteran Assembly, the imperialists' servants and terrorists and the dark states behind them -- which we know very well who they are. We've crossed the ages, we've passed the climates. We've been sacrificed in the same direction and we've been running for our lives. The ones who ward off fear, the ones who kill death And we fell down in prostration. We have made a covenant with God. ... We're out of our depth. We're the ones who fell to the ground with a white forehead in the Turkey. Where death comes from, what death is now. Death was helpless in the climate of martyrdom.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0010par0075	Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0011par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. The leader of the traitorous terrorist organization is protected within 400 acres of U.S.A., and the organisation is run from here. As we as NATO members should be in solidarity, as we know as allies, you have doubts about the attack on Turkey's top office, the President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the leader of these villains who attacked the civilian population. Turkey cannot be a friend of Turkey's enemies. The United States must show that Turkey does not act with its enemies without spending too much time. Otherwise, we'll find it difficult to say that our U.S. friends, we can't explain it to our people, we need to fix his image as soon as possible. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0012par0080	Mr. Sertel...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0013par0082	Mr. President, once again I condemn the coup attempt with hatred. Turkey must now quickly enter normal life. Because of the coup, freedoms should never be restricted to human rights. The enemy of soldiers and soldiers must not be fueled. It has to be known that it is the commanders, the police, the soldiers, and our people who oppose the coup that prevents this coup. Families who have not heard from the soldiers are also waiting for an explanation. Six years later, the president of the Republican People's Party, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroğlu, handed a microphone to our president. Six years later, he remembers the head of the TRT Main Opposition Party, and hopefully he won't forget it again.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0014par0085	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0015par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. On the evening of July 15th, we faced a new coup against national will. The coup attempt on the terrorist organization has targeted our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our government, the Supreme Assembly and the national will. The bloodiest fethullahist terror organization that has ever struck the nation's weapons against the presidency, the National Assembly and our nation has committed the most treacherous coup. Our nation has protected the national will, which is based on the people, who believe in Hakk. The most bloody coup attempt in history has been repelled within hours. This date will be celebrated as the festival of national will and democracy. All of this commands us to implement the new constitution based on the unconditional domination of the national will and to purge all the elements from all institutions. On this occasion, I salute our martyrs with the grace of God, and the speedy healing of our veterans, and the great assembly.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0016par0090	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0017par0093	Mr. President, on the night of July 15th, our country has suffered the lowest, most ruthless and most bloody coup in the history of the Republic. We had a dark night in which our commander-in-chief Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our commander-in-chief, had pointed a gun at the saintly Turkish nation, massacred him, bombed the Veteran Assembly in no time in history. On that night, I thank our leaders and imams, who read and read the minarets, our floods. They were not the night of July 15 but also the milkmen of the Battle of Salvation. As Turkey learns the details of the coup attempt on the night of July 15th, it is clear how much danger Turkey has endured. On the night of the 15th of July, our beloved nation, our heroic police, our proud Mehmet-chik, who resisted the junta, taught the world a lesson of democracy. That night, no matter what the world's view, everyone held democracy. The testimony of the chief of staff's traitorous aide is the clearest evidence that this is the case.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0016par0096	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0018par0098	Mr. President, I wish you well in our country. May God have mercy on our martyrs, and speedy healing for the wounded. The bitter experiences of military coups have created a sense of democracy in the public that would oppose military coups, no matter what the opinion. This is the guarantee of democracy. To approve a coup against elected political power, to accept it, to remain silent in the face of the coup attempt, is contrary to the democracy we defend and believe in. Now, the mission of the House must be to strengthen the democratic parliamentary system immediately. Our people deserve to live in the republical regime of a liberal, democratic, secular and social law state. It is the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to ensure that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0019par0102	Thank you. Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0020par0105	Dear President, we all curse the coups together, but what's as important as this is to be fair in the ongoing trial of the coups, starting with the investigation process. If we give up the principles of justice and make torture and abuse a method of investigation and implementing it, it is not possible to achieve a legitimate outcome. Today, my fellow lawyers complain of failing to perform their duties, of witnessing torture, and of being provoked by the police. The administration must act quickly to stop the torture. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0021par0108	Thank you. Mr. Green...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0022par0111	Mr. President, thank you very much. I condemn the coup with the curse of the coup on July 15th, but while defending democracy, there should be no understanding of taking some democratic rights today. There have been 294,000 e-mail correspondence about WikiLeaks (WikiLeaks) published, but immediately, WikiLeaks was blocked from Turkey's access to Turkey. Isn't it a transparency, antidemocratic attitude that prevents access to a website while we stand up against the antidemocratic character of coups as a society and take a stand for unconditional democracy? Isn't this forbidden understanding disregarding the will of the nation, who has made it clear that he wants democracy and transparency against the July 15 coup attempt? What is the real purpose of blocking the site mentioned? Is he afraid that his connections will be exposed? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0023par0115	Thank you. Mr. Boyraz... Don't you know, I've got a cat to piss in. The Prophet is a guide, a mighty lord. Did he not bring Joseph out of the well? Is not the night for the day, Will not the steeps meet? He drinks from mercy to thirsty blood. If the Great Creator closes a door, It opens up thousands of doors. He pierces the marble, the poor man's wife, It's the glint of heaven that shakes. No fear, no mourning, no sadness, As long as you lean on your Lord, who created your back. And as for him who is a friend to a servant, he is the Maker, There's gonna be a lot of trouble. Don't worry; what goes around, what goes around, what goes around, that goes around. The squares are not empty. We're on watch. Take the flag. We're light-headed, we're white-faced, We're white on the side, take a side. It's our bread and bread for the rest of our lives. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0024par0143	The coup against our parliamentary democracy on the night of July 15th was opposed by all our people, especially our Grand National Assembly of Turkey and all our political parties. However, the lynching, torture and persecution of the security forces, which somehow became part of the coup attempt, without even knowing what they were assigned to, has made our society guilty. This coup attempt has once again made clear the importance and meaning of parliamentary democracy, freedom, especially freedom of the press. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy to our soldiers, to our policemen, and to the people who lost their lives during the coup attempt, and to the wounded with immediate healing. Also, today is the 42nd anniversary of Operation Peace in Cyprus. Our former Cypriot leader and prime minister, Bulent Ecevit, Rauf Denktas, and our heroic soldiers, who were martyrs in the Battle of Peace, are mercifully and gratefully remembered.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0023par0145	Mr. Özkaya...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0025par0147	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I ask God's mercy to all our citizens who have died because of the low coup on July 15th. This great tragedy, led by our President and the conquest of our beloved nation, has been prevented and stopped by its power, it has been repelled, it has been defused, it has failed. As one of the people who lived in the AK PARTI headquarters and then stopped all the tanks at gate 1 of the presidential community, the people who were scanned from the helicopter, and the people who were with him, who were then among the people who were killed by the bombs that were thrown out of the plane during the morning prayer, I believe that this rogue terrorist organization must be punished in absolutes and that the High Council should consider the death penalty if necessary.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0023par0149	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0026par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. And I strongly condemn the July 15 coup attempt. We all went through what happened that night together. I was out of Parliament when it happened, one of the first deputies to arrive. That night we saw how a House, a Parliament, the Veterans Assembly were bombed, both here and in other parts. By the way, we've seen how low the strays have gone to bomb it. Dear President, by the way, the trial of those responsible for the coup is of course essential, there is no hesitation in this matter within the law, but my constituency, which has nothing to do with the coup, is unfortunately in Hopa, and unfortunately, nine young people have nothing to do with it -- we just submitted this list to Mr. Secretary -- because of attempted coup attempt to change constitutional order. They really have nothing to do with it. A major legal error has been made. That's what I draw the public's attention to. Once again, I pray for God's mercy on our martyrs who died of a coup, and I pray for immediate healing for our wounded.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0027par0156	Mr. Yavuz...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0028par0158	In the warmest hours of the vile coup attempt, on the road to Parliament, in the vicinity of the Energy Ministry, the road has been blocked. The blood on the flag that makes the flags, The land, if you have died for it, is a homeland. I have brought you up for these days by returning to the three sons of a father who are with him consciously; either you remove this barrier, or you die here. You can now return to your homes, those brave men who led to the removal of the barrier in that place, as in all parts of Turkey, in Sakarya, and in a short period of time, I salute the people who have gathered in front of Sakarya's government with hundreds of thousands and thousands of men who have cleansed them of them today, as well as Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0029par0161	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Tezcan...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0030par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. The FETO terrorist organization has turned the tanks, planes, weapons that belong to our nation, into our nation's institutions, especially our Veteran Assembly, and into our President's. Once again, I condemn and curse those who are involved in this vile enterprise, who have supported this coup attempt on various occasions. We need to shake off all the leeches, the parasites, all of us, and shake off our backs, and our humpbacks, all of us, all of us, who are trying to absorb our souls, blood, blood, and riches. Together, we must unite ourselves together, gather our strength, correct our spirituality, as good men, and set right the wrongs. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy to our citizens, to our police, and to our national soldiers, who were killed in the coup attempt, to be patient with their relatives, to heal the wounded. From the very first moment, we were encouraged by his upright and prosperous posture...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0031par0168	I want to thank my congressman friends.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0032par0169	Let him continue, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0033par0170	Let him continue, Mr. President. The House is holding on to democracy, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0031par0171	Yes, the House is holding democracy. That's what I agree with, but we've been talking to the members of the group. So for your information, I'm sorry. I'd like to thank our congressman friends again. Now I'm going to make a promise to our group presidents. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0034par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. The July 15 coup attempt, by God, failed. With the determination of our nation, Turkish Armed Forces, Police personnel, power and opposition, political leaders, media, and Turkey's Grand National Assembly, this coup attempt has been prevented and our country has returned from the brink of a cliff. However, our nation and the Republic of Turkey are still on their backs. It is more important than ever to walk away from the struggle to seize opportunity from the crisis and to build up social peace, unity and unity, actions and rhetoric that will strengthen trust, and this opportunity must never be wasted. The coup attempt is an attempt at state destruction. On the night of July 15th, the attacks were committed directly to our beloved nation, the Republic of Turkey, and its institutions. Terrorists in military suits who attempted a coup wanted to turn the soldiers against the police, the soldiers against the people. What we've seen on TV is not the kind of thing that can be digested as Turkish nationals, where they're laid down, their hands are up, their hands are up, their hand is on the floor, their hand is on the floor, their hand is on the floor, their hand is on the back, their hand is on the back of the gym, and they can't be digested as Turkish nationals. A coup attempt should not and should not be allowed to be hostile to enemies of the state. From the coupters and their supporters, they must be dealt with as quickly and as best they can, and they must be punished immediately. In other words, while these activities are being carried out in our society...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0035par0181	Mr. Akçay, complete, please.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0034par0182	...a witch hunt should not be created. We benefit from the suspension of about 50,000 public personnel in two days, and from the public's enlightening and disquieting explanations. I'd like to point out that our president, Mr. State Bahçeli, called for the halt of this community activities in 2011, while the Prime Minister and ruling executives of the period opposed our President, and very controversial remarks were expressed. As we arrived today, Mr. President's right is once again revealed. I'd like to point out one last thing: we're carefully following the efforts to create a new de facto situation after the coup attempt. We're in the middle of... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I finish?
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0036par0187	Sure, I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Akchay. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0034par0189	...except for a delicate and difficult day, and the fact that we're trying to harvest a real situation will be difficult to make up for. There's no way out but democracy and law. Just as we opposed the coup d'états' efforts to create a de facto situation yesterday, we oppose today's efforts to create some kind of actual situation, and tomorrow we will oppose it, and we must all stand together. The unity of the 15th of July is that we shouldn't waste the air of unity, and that's what our nation's greatest expectation is. On the night of July 15th, we must maintain this attitude as we have all held democracy together with his power and opposition. The real success will come with this struggle that we're going to have in common. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0037par0192	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0038par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to begin by saying that I honor and cherish the decision makers of the Cypriot Peace Operation 42 years ago, Mr. Bulent Ecevit, Mr. Necmettin Erbakan and the leaders of the Turkish community Mr. Fazil Minor and Rauf Denktas. Mr. President, as the Republican People's Party is going through an important process, as a party member who has a very clear attitude towards the coup attempt, we would like to stress that the real danger may come from now on. It is vital that a coup attempt be met and prevented by all political parties with both the public and the Parliament, a great gain for democracy. But the next step is just as important as preventing that blow. Many different places are now being expressed a lot of discomfort with some of the practices that are being done. For example, the Institute of Higher Education has asked all deans to resign. Now, in a painting like this, all the deans are under suspicion. I mean, for what reason did the NGO launch such an initiative? And interestingly, he's verbally conveying this request, not taking responsibility in writing. But right now, with all the deans being asked to resign, we're going through a process where all the deans are under suspicion, one of the most typical examples. If anyone is involved in the crime, it's only natural for everyone to be tried, but I think it's important that everyone be judged in such a context that I think is the greatest danger of the future process. Again, our friends have expressed themselves, and we argue that everyone should be held in custody and punished by independent jurisdiction on the condition that they remain within the law. Any step away from this leads to some very serious discussion. The authorities, the rulers of the state, must escape from this with care. We say that Turkey is in a period where it should be very calm.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0039par0202	Please complete, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0038par0203	But, at this point, you have to be discreet, you have to be smart. So, when there are applications that will lead to other insights, which will cause unrest, it will bring with it other vulnerability. Our goal, however, is to bring Turkey into a calm state and bring further human rights to a democracy that we are trying to protect. So we're going through a process where the government heads have a very important mission to the ruling party. One must be very careful and avoid even the slightest error. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0039par0205	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0040par0208	Mr. President, thank you. Each blow is the work of the weak, for the people, whom they are unable to represent in the usual ways of the coup, want to take their will, and their weakness comes from here. These coupters are also weak because the threat methods they used to seize the will of the nation, the terrorist methods, have come before the public as proof of their own weaknesses, fears, and concerns. Those who were confident, those who assumed at least had power would not have bombed the House, they would not have attacked strategic sites, they would not have tried to reach out to the cause in a threatening way, they would not have driven tanks on the people, they would have treated themselves safer, but that trust would not have happened in these coupgers, nor would it have happened in other coupgers, no doubt. As the statements are published, it turns out that a deep construction that Turkey has been talking about and arguing about has organized this coup in the form of a terrorist initiative that has been donated within the military. It's called a parallel gang, which, on the one hand -- I can't say Islam -- it's trying to give him sympathy over an interpretation of Islam's falsehood. But let's not forget, that's not the main element, the main element is that he's trying to promise his supporters through socioeconomic construction. Since such a promise is no longer available in Turkey, it is absolutely doomed to collapse on its own, sociologically. Beyond that, the state of the Republic of Turkey, any people who claim democracy and the will of the nation...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0041par0213	Complete, please, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0040par0214	...in other ways and in other ways, the nation will always be vigilant against this structure and other structures that are constantly within it. Against this terrorist initiative, it's very important that our nation, our political elders -- Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister -- call on the opposition leaders, democratic institutions -- and the public to the squares. At the same time, in critical places, the patriotic officers within the military who do not know each other, open fire on the people. The men, the officers, must resist their orders not to surrender to the will of the coupters.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0041par0216	Mr. Bostanci, I'll give you a minute; please complete. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0040par0218	...the heroic resistance of the people in the police force, no doubt most important, the civil resistance of this nation, the people who were thrown in front of the tanks without blinking an eye, was the result of this coup. By God's leave, these coupters will surely be judged, and they will receive the punishment they deserve. There is no doubt that all of this will be done within the current legal order. At the last group meeting, our Prime Minister also demonstrated the profound difference between the coupgers and the state of law, in a manner that is in accordance with human rights and law, that all these investigations were carried out, that determined will to be done. Our nation may be at peace. On the other hand, it is in the best interest of the state to carry out the most active procedures in the background of this coup, and it is in our debt to the future of this country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0042par0223	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0043par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as we have stated before, I would like to say that we once again condemn the coup on July 15th, and I wish God's mercy to those who have lost their lives as a result of this coup, and to the wounded, an immediate healing. When we evaluate this process, we express once again how the coup was carried out, and the consequences of this coup were never acceptable, and I want to say once again that the way out of here is through the reconstruction of democracy and freedoms, and we want to make it clear once again that this is how the approaches should be done in the framework of the human rights, within the framework of the coup process. Likewise, in this five-day period, we believe that the approach to all public institutions, including public institutions, education, health, health care, and judicial bodies, will bring the country to some concern in the future, including the detention or dismissal of all those there. Because it's about getting those who are really connected here to get a fair trial. This also concerns people and the people of Turkey. I would like to state that this has to be explained immediately by government and state officials. Again, today is July 20th, the 1st anniversary of the Suruç massacre. Suruç....that the ISIS gangs have used against the young people there..
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0044par0232	Complete, please, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0043par0233	...with the bombing, 33 of our young people lost their lives in Suruç. Their demands were to support those in Kobani, the children in Kobani, and to help build new life there along with many young people in Turkey. To not expose these massacres committed by ISIS gangs in Diyarbakır, today in Suruç, Diyarbakır, Ankara, but not to bring it to justice is to ensure that this coup comes to this stage. Let's rephrase that. Because we've seen this, we've expressed these problems... many of our friends in this Parliament have seen these dangers here. But once again, we saw that none of this was taken into account, and once again we saw how right we were when we expressed our concerns, how right we were. Again, the same way...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0044par0236	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Ironel. Please, come in.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0043par0238	We still think this process isn't over. Because we've seen that there are still curfews in Cizre, Şırnak, and Sur. There are still blockades and dangers in many cities and cities. Yesterday, we expected you to explain to our fellow MPs and female friends that the coup attempt and -- let's say -- the blockade for our fellow lawmakers had been carried out, and that we still had no information as to who was being done by them as a result of our talks, and that you would also have to explain this behavior to our MPs, our women deputies, and that you would condemn it. Likewise today, when unions and rooms visited Parliament in private, Mr. Sırrıyya Leader gave a speech on behalf of our party... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0045par0242	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0043par0243	I'd like to express to the community that we condemned the first, that we didn't accept it, that a thought that could never be accepted, that the MP's opinion could never be accepted, and that the Parliament Speaker's colleague, and a friend of his own, who was on the Presidential Court, and Mr. Sırrıyya, after the Leader came out, expressed to the community there: You have given him his lesson. I'd like to point out that there's an unbecoming attitude and behavior to a Speaker. And again, by expressing that an idea that is insufferable and insufferable to the lawmakers who say their words is unacceptable, we expect democracy in private to apologize to the Leader of Sırrıyya and to all of our party, which is unbecoming the word of a parliamentary speaker in a country where freedoms can develop. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit01spe0046par0246	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having them read separately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the 1970s, Turkey has made significant breakthroughs in the white meat industry and has ranked top of the world's rankings. In the 1970s, family business was dominated by limited capacity, expensive production, replaced by structural change in the 1980s, modern, integrated facilities and the contracted production model, world standards were adopted in the 1990s, and production continued to increase steadily by the 2000s. In recent years, the rising price of red meat, such as the reduction of public acquisition power due to economic crises, has generally highlighted white meat, especially chicken production and consumption. White meat production has played a very important role in meeting the public's animal protein needs in recent years. This role is expected to continue in the coming years. Chickening within the white meat industry is a strategic product for Turkey, which has a very positive impact on expectations in the sector. In our country today, the production of chicken eggs is nearing 2 million tons of chicken. About 85 per cent of the produced white meat is performed in very modern facilities, and most of the facilities are much more modern than those in developed countries. The yearly turnover reached $6 billion, the producer pair, bait, medicine, side industry, vendors, tradesmen, shipping, marketing staff, and the industry face a number of problems over 2.5 million people. One of the most important problems in the white meat industry is external addiction. The industry is dependent on animal material, bait, vaccines, and many other issues. Feral chicks are brought from abroad. The competitiveness of such an external sector is weak with the U.S. and EU countries, which provide the lure materials and the need for breeding from their own resources. The recent political crisis with Syria, Iran, Iraq and Russia has also caused serious damage to the sector. The economic crises, the surplus of production, the fluctuations caused by the increasing price of raw materials due to the increase in the rate of courtship, are another problem. Another very important problem with the industry is the unlicensed henhouses. In our country, about 85 percent of the henhouses serve high quality, but are not registered. Since there are no building licenses, many henhouses are in danger of being shut down. The number of chicken coops in the province of Bolu, which covers about 35 per cent of the production across the country, is more than 3,000, and the number of undetectables is estimated to be 6,000,7,000. The license issue in the sector has been unresolved for years and has come to date. This sector provides jobs for 10,000 people directly in Bolu Province alone. In our country, 35 per cent of its population live in rural areas, where most rural residents are unemployed or without a secret job, it is important to create chicken farming jobs. In all these issues, policies aimed at the well-known and resolving of the sector's problems need to be developed. To this end, we respectfully present the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, the 98th Charter of the Constitution, 104 and 105, in order to establish economic policies that could be taken to end the problems of the white meat industry and in particular, to end the problems of chickenism, and to create economic policies that would lead to the development of the sector. [[Bolu]] [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] 9) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 10) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] 19) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] 25) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The unsolved murders are undoubtedly one of the greatest shames in Turkish political history. Unfortunately, as governments failed to take the necessary steps to prevent human rights violations, the number of unsolved murders has increased exponentially over the years. Many intellectuals, writers, thinkers, politicians have been victims of unsolved murders in our country. In particular, there has been a significant increase in unsolved murders since 1990. Muammar Aksoy in 1990, months later, Bahriye Threeok in 1993, Uğur Mumcu in 1999, Ahmet Taner Kışlalı in 1999, Necip Hablemitoglu in 2002, and the recent lack of full disclosure of Diyarbakır Bar President Tahir Elçi's killings are public reactions and questions. Although all unsolved murders have left unrecognizable traces in memory, the killing of investigative journalist Ugur Mumcu has shaken the Turkish community deeply. In the 1980s, Ugur Mumcu, the uncompromising defender of the Republic's Ataturk principles and revolutions, wrote more than 5,000 articles for gangs, political-commerce relations, unsolved murders, ties between terrorism and trafficking, the internal face of political powers that compromised religion or racism, while democratic, secular, republican, full independence, all rights and freedoms. In the past twenty-two years, not being illuminated in all aspects of the Mumcu murder, the fact that the criminals were not found and were never punished has left an unrecoverable wound in the public conscience. Many cases are expected to be resolved in commissions and the judicial process as the AKP government does not take the necessary steps to clarify unsolved murders. Due to the government's silence and lack of action, many unsolved murders, especially Uður Mumcu, and many suspicious death cases continue to exist on public conscience, are facing a statute of limitations. Unknown murders are unacceptable in countries that claim to embrace the understanding of the state of law, such as the Republic of Turkey. In this context, this dark picture in Turkish political history has caused the confidence of our citizens in the state and its institutions to become increasingly low in time and has had a negative impact on our country's ration of human rights and democratisation. Such a democracy is the worst legacy to be left to future generations. Given the briefly summing of the grounds above, I would like to propose the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of Constitution 98th, Turkey's National Assembly's Institution, in order to clarify the unsolved murders and the forces behind our country. [[Bolu]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] 7) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 16) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] 25) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, the Law 3294 helps our needy citizens, who have no social security, and those who have been accepted into our country in 1986. Social welfare foundations are providing assistance to the rights owners by operating in all of our districts and districts. Poverty is defined by its simplest definition as not being able to meet the basic needs of humans. Regular hunger and poverty research is conducted every month by the Turkish-BiH. According to the report in November 2015, the hunger limit in Turkey is $1,391 and the poverty limit is $4,530. The minimum wage in Turkey is below the hunger limit. This picture shows that many people in our country are far from even meeting their basic needs. However, there are thousands of people who have no social security, living in need. Due to the intensity of applications to social welfare and solidarity foundations, many of the demands are not even returned. With such intense demand from our citizens, refugees from countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan are also being helped to provide for them through foundations. The number of refugees in our country, especially the Syrians, has exceeded the estimates of the AKP government, and remains uncertain as to how much longer it will increase. The benefits from social aid and solidarity foundations are based on what criteria are being made, and the aid is being made by public opinion, which raises questions in our people. It is also the duty of the social state to identify needy people and to perform the necessary work to provide help, regardless of the requirement of the state's application, due to the presence of such helpless citizens in our country. It appears that institutional servants who evaluate the applications of those in need of social assistance and solidarity are abusing their duties during the examination. In addition, it is worse for our citizens who are already in a difficult position to cut aid without cause and without full explanation. In this context, to correct negative impressions of our people and public opinion, aid needs to be investigated and investigated in all aspects of the matter to ensure a more transparent structure. Given the grounds explained briefly above, I would like to ask that Parliamental research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98th, Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution, in order to investigate and determine the measures needed to be taken in the aid of social assistance and solidarity foundations. [[Bolu]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Hatay]] [[Balıkesir]] 8) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] 24) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit02spe0046par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, the President of the Association of Bars of Turkey and our state bar presidents have now arrived in our Parliament. [[Applause]] I welcome them on behalf of our coven. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We're waiting for the Commission and the Government. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0046par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We begin talks with the International Labor Law Bill and the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Report, which ranked number 1. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 403 rows. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the groups, Samsun MP Ahmet Demircan will speak first on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Demircan.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0047par0013	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the majority of International Labor Law Bill 403. I salute you all with love and respect. First, I know it is my duty to remember the MPs who served in the Grand National Assembly on the occasion of the 42nd anniversary of Operation Peace in Cyprus, and the late Prime Minister of that day, Bkent Ecevit and Deputy Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan. I also wish long lives to the veterans, the survivors, who have brought Cyprus' victory to this nation, and to those who have provoked it and to those who have been martyred. Because of Turkey's Peacekeeping Operation in Cyprus, no one has been bleeding in Cyprus for forty-two years. This makes the best sense of what a strong Turkish ▪ in the region means. Secondly, on July 15, 2016, which is very important for today, I curse the people's will and freedom, the attack against constitutional order, the bandits who committed this attack, the murderers, all the coups together. Have mercy on our martyrs, my condolences on our nation. I wish our wounded a speedy recovery. It is every citizen's right and duty to maintain and maintain constitutional order against the occupations and coups aimed at destroying national sovereignty. On July 15, 2016, our nation took the right to maintain its sovereignty that was attacked and did its duty properly. He gave the whole world the best example of how national will is protected and how it's done, and he built a monument to honor. It's an event where by giving the lives of our nation, by giving the lives of all of us, by giving the lives of our nation, it protects the independence of the country, it protects its national sovereignty. I offer our deepest gratitude and respect to our nation. I reminisce about the martyrs. Yesterday we visited our wounded at Hacettepe Hospital, visited our veterans. Believe me, every time we walked into a room, every time we ran into a gas, we couldn't stop our eyes from rolling. The worker, the officer, the tradesman, the average of our people, the average of our nation, stood up there that day, when he heard the attack on the nation's will and the call for what it should have done against this attack, and stood up against those murderers who were attacking the nation's will, at the cost of his body being torn apart. Now while I'm there waiting for his wound to heal, I'll go again, I'll stand before them again, I'll shield my body, my life again. It really means a lot. They did their duty, our people did theirs. Now the mission falls to politics. Politics must put its hat in front of it, in silence, in my mind. What is this? I look back on it, I'm 63 years old, and I've had seven coups and coups in my 63 years of life. May 27th, the Aydemir revolution trial, March 12th -- there are two levels of March 12th, March 9th and March 12th -- September 12th, February 28th -- I was then in government, minister of state -- April 27th and now July 15th. We have to think, what is it? In this geography, in this country, something is wrong, something's wrong, which is either the coup or the coup d'état is growing here. In less than ten years, there are repeated blows. I think this has three main areas, the mindset that lies in the deepest part of it. I don't categorize it from any side, but I want to mention the understanding here -- they act when they find an environment that's available. The second is the system. How is it that in Turkey, Turkey has somehow taken over the Turkish Armed Forces, which are made up of people's money, people's taxes, Turkish Armed Forces, and is making moves to shape the nation through the Turkish Armed Forces, to end the nation's sovereignty, and the system is somehow laying groundwork for it, allowing it to do so. We have to question the system here. With such a system, Turkey can't walk into the future easily, my friends. The system was somehow designed on September 12th, but before that, on May 27th, it was designed with a coup d'état, a distance from national sovereignty, one of which was our army, which meant the power of the nation. The military's relationship with the will of the nation has a very healthy, very clear, very effective obligation as a system. If you can't build it that way, eventually someone will take action to get to it and take over, and that's kind of what's happening in Turkey today. When we interpret the impacts, when we're trying to understand them, we need to not only evaluate them from the internal context. In countries as important as Turkey, in the most important part of the world's geography -- in our country -- there's also a face for external conditions, there's a direction. That's the 60 impacts, that's the coup d'etat, that's the coup d'état, that's the coup attempt. We have to put our hat in front of us and make a very good use of it. Of course we're facing a hot situation. We're going to take measures to prevent all the damage to this hot event, and we're going to have to give the criminals the most severe punishments. It's not just the issue of power, we never look at it that way because the coup is a national issue, it's a national issue, it's a concern of all our political parties. If the coup had happened, God forbid, they would have picked us up one by one, and perhaps far beyond what had happened in the past coups, we would have been lynched on the roads before we reached our destination, perhaps executed, because a mindset that had led to fire on the people, a mind that had carried the tank on the people, of course, would have been harsher against the representatives of the people. This must not be forgotten. Now, the important task of politics has fallen. We must, of course, do the work that will cleanse the country of its warm effects, but let's not forget that the next time we wake up in this country's dream of a coup is a nightmare, and we need to take its precautions. The bill for attacks on the sovereignty of all these nations has been very heavy for our country in many areas. The country has been pushed back for years in each blow. Now, mind-set, of course, we need to take the precautions and remove this coupe-in-the-way understanding barrier in front of Turkey. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course we have blocked this coup by the power of the nation in the process of doing the nation's duty. The House has done its part. It is being passed through a historic period. I also commend the opposition, and our nation is closely monitoring the event with its power and opposition. The House is working, even if it's bombed. This is an indication of how powerful the will of the nation is, and here is where Congress has shown that it represents the will of this nation. I also have a duty to offer my humble appreciation to the House. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, the House continues its uninterrupted work. I'm here on behalf of our group on the grounds of Bill 403. What was the country's agenda? To remove the obstacles in front of investments, to improve Turkey's development faster, to make Turkey stronger; our work continued on this minor from the beginning of July. It's a law from the frame, a law from that sentence. We want to prevail in competition. Of course, qualified manpower is important in gaining superiority in competition. It's extremely important that we raise our own qualified manpower, but we also need to take advantage of humanity's savings. We need to improve our country more effectively by taking advantage of humanity's manpower, knowledge, capital power. We're making an arrangement to assess our country's qualified manpower, to take advantage of international power at the highest level. That is one of the reasons for this arrangement. It's one thing that we've been complaining about for years, we've been complaining about brain draining out of our country in terms of national and international legislation, establishing labor-force policies that preempt our country's needs, tracking them on issues of labour permits and exemption. This is how it is, and it is what it is. The responsibility, of course, is also on the lack of proper regulation of the system in Turkey. Why haven't we taken enough steps to educate the highly skilled people in our country? We have to throw it out so that the vision and development of talented people can contribute to developing Turkey. This is an example of countries who have done effective work in this field. One of them is South Korea. In the 1980s, South Korea developed special educational institutions for gifted children, and today its fruits are collected. Unfortunately, we were dealing with a coup in the 1980s, and we still can't get out of that coup. For this reason, we have brought in this law to authorise the Council of Ministers to grant a partial study -- which is to attract students at a pre-license level -- and to restrict work permits to increase direct investments -- to ensure that the investment climate is improved. Turkey, which is developing, developing, growing economy, is a Turkey that is growing in prosperity, which gives justice in the distribution of revenue; to do that, we need to use our resources in the best way, the most efficient way. Of course, Turkey's own savings are enough to finance the investments needed for Turkey's development, but unfortunately, our country's savings are not enough to finance our country's investments. For him, we do this work to ensure that foreign capital is brought to Turkey efficiently, and if there are any obstacles on this subject, remove them. Humanity's savings are not just capital, but a work that protects the best interests of the country so that knowledge and technology can be offered to the benefit of our country. Dear friends, of course there's always been capital, brain drains, skilled labour migrations. In the 1960s, our country was an exodus country. People from our country had to go to work in Germany. In these 1980s, our country was once used as a host, and our country came from outside and began to migrate out again to Europe. Now our country is the target country in the migration. There are two reasons: our history and geography give us both an advantage and a real challenge. One of them is the conflict that is happening in our region, which has a very direct bearing on the July 15 coup today, because global forces, the forces that seek to shape the world, are seeking to reshape the Middle East. In order to reshape the Middle East, they take steps that upset all stability in the Middle East, they activate the destructive elements -- the DAEŞ is one of them -- and they continue with it, trying to lure Turkey into a vortex like this, but Turkey did not enter into such a vortex, through direct, intelligent governments. This time, they took steps to motivate the collaborators inside, to bring Turkey into instability and even internal conflict -- I find it difficult to say. Yesterday's uprising on July 15th, the coup attempt was not just a move to take over, friends, it was a move to draw Turkey into such great chaos, and we have to think about it that way. For him, one reason for the migrations to our country in the region is that the new form that is intended to be given to our region is the obligation, the challenge. As Turkey, we have to take the necessary measures in this regard, friends, without damaging our national unity. Another thing we need to think about is... there's a situation that's developing against human labor. Unfortunately, technology should have yielded results in human service, in the direction of human needs, but the development in technology is in the best interest of capital; capital is being strengthened against labor, and we have to consider that. This is not just today's conjunctural situation, but the forces that control human labor in the control of the technology we call capital are being cornered by technology. One strives to provide for one's hard work, and we have to consider a development against human labor. Dear lawmakers, we've talked about the impact of events in the environment. I'd like to tell you the trend in the development of foreign work permits. In 2003, with Law 4817, we established a law on these permits. In 2009, about 10,000 employees have increased to 80 thousand employees in 2015. A new law was needed because of the inadequacy in the matter. That's another reason for this law. In this law, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security is authorized to create the international labour market. The ministry includes the International Labour General Directorate, which is being committed. With the participation of relevant institutions, the International Council of Labour Policy Advisory is formed. Under this advisory board, under the head of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, the Undersecretaries of the Ministry of the European Union, Foreign Affairs, Economy, Development, Internal Affairs, Culture and Tourism will meet at least once a year to review policies. In addition, with this law, we're bringing in a new system of study permits, which can have a positive impact on our country's economy and employment in accordance with international labour policy, which supports the development of our country, contributes to scientific and technological development, is developed in the field of education, with professional experience, R&D and innovation, and strategic importance in any area, in order to bring strategically prominent foreign human work force into our country. So, whoever brings human capital and financial capital, technology to our country is an important step in which to make it easier for them, and we're taking this step. I wish this law would bring blessings to our country and our nation. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0048par0040	Thank you, Mr. Demircan. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Rebel Yiğitalp will speak. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0049par0044	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party to discuss the entire Bill of Law 403. I salute you all. First, we strongly condemn the coup attempt on July 15th, stating that we oppose any military or civilian coup. I would also like to point out that we are opposed to personal weapons statements, execution statements, and the culture of lynching created in society. We also condemn lynching attempts on July 15th against young people who were only eighteen years old, against different groups of beliefs and ethnic identity. These events can only be resolved by the implementation of the principles of peace, human rights, democracy, and the rule of law. Dear MPs, yesterday, July 19th, was the beginning of the Rojava revolution. During the civil war in Syria, the Kobani People's Assembly took over the city and launched the Rojava revolution. I salute the fourth year of the Rojava revolution, which began in Kobani, with a wave of emotions. The people of Rojava are not alone and will not be left alone. The fight and decisive stance will continue until ISIS, El Nusra, and other gang supporters are completely destroyed from Rojava and Syria. Here they were last year in Suruç, 300 of our young people from all over Turkey, to show that the people of Rojava were not alone. Just before going to Kobani, they made a press statement in the garden of Amara Cultural Center. At 11:50 p.m., an explosion occurred in the middle of the crowd. The people of Kobani, and the children of Kobani, 33 of our young children, who sought solidarity with them, were killed by this blast, and more than 100 of our young ones were wounded. In particular, a day after the anniversary of the Rojava revolution, the target of Turkish revolutionaries who set out to stick together with Kobani was to break the solidarity around Kobani, to give up that solidarity. It turns out that sheikh Abdurrahman Alagöz, a member of the ISIS gang -- the suicide bomber -- has been missing for six months with his brother as a terrorist-qualified missing person, and his father reported two sons to the county police department two months ago. In fact, it has been said that the person who murdered 33 of our young people was taken into custody and released by the police. This individual's older brother, Jonah Emre Alagöz, committed the massacre of the peace rally in Ankara on October 10, three months later, where more than 100 of our people were slaughtered. Despite the fact that a year has passed, no serious action has been made regarding those who committed the Suruç massacre. After the Suruç massacre, the case was granted a confidentiality order. Once again, I honor all my brothers who lost their lives in Suruç. I'm stressing that we're going to live up to their most human solidarity, emotions, and thoughts in our struggle. I condemn the political power that prevents families from memorializing their children in Suruç, and other cities, and I say to you, as Loren Elva (who was injured in this massacre): I am not well, we will not be well, we will not be well. If you had lit up this massacre that day, we would not have experienced the other massacres or the present. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as you can see, we begin our talks by condemning massacres and attacks. This country needs peace now. In a country where there is no peace, in a country where curfew is imposed for months, in a country where cities are beaten with tanks and cannons, its job is to find a quick solution; it is not to prepare a law for brain migration from other countries. Now we're a country where people don't even go on vacation. Let alone come to work, let alone plan a long-term life, people don't come unless they have to. Turkey is a transit route for people who have escaped the war, and the one who has a choice doesn't want to stay here. Hundreds of people are trying to escape by sea with their lives in order to get to Europe. If we're going to keep these people here, we have to make peace. If I may say so, first of all, it is a universal right for each person to live in their own home in equal, human conditions and honorable peace. We, too, have to act as Congress aware of our responsibility for this matter. On the one hand we are discussing citizenship for Syrian immigrants, while on the other hand, we are discussing the International Labor Law Bill. While giving citizenship to the Syrians is the political aspect of the initiative, the bill we're talking about is about the labour market. In recent times, immigrants who have had to emigrate from Syria often attack their neighborhoods and homes as well as their workplaces. We have to take care of all these balances when we're setting up immigration policies. In both social life and working life, the rhetoric and actions that will confront citizens and immigrants must be given up; on the contrary, expression of peace and peace must be used. Four days ago, bombs were dropped where we are now. After this coup attempt, the attacks against the Syrians increased. Mr. President, this bill, referred by the government on 24 June to the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission, was discussed on 28 June in our Commission. The occupational organisations, trade unions and NGOs that actually constitute the backbone of the draft bill were informed just 24 hours before the meeting, not enough time was given for them to make the necessary preparations. The proposals and criticism of representatives attending the Commission meeting were not taken into consideration, especially as a whole, when the draft law should be co-organised with trade organisations. However, in order for adequate work on the bill to be done, a subcommittee should be set up, trade organisations and trade unions should be given time, their views should be taken into account, and the public should be informed enough. It is our humanitarian obligation to provide a secure working life and reasonable income to immigrants who were forced to emigrate because of the war and forced to come to Turkey during the time they are here, but in our country, broadly defined unemployment is 17 per cent based on non-registered work rate 40 per cent. It is also adopted a production model based on consumption and debt, not production and employment. As with this bill, an unscheduled and unsupervised employment policy for immigrants will not benefit them at all, but it will increase unemployment and informality in the domestic market. The employment under the definition of domestic and foreign labor force will result in a rivalry among the planned individuals and not the establishment of the public order mentioned on the grounds. However, what is right is to set up a production policy based on employment, and to place the need of resources on the shoulders of the capital cut, which has been rewarded with taxlessness and incentives for many years, not by the working people. The bill must include comprehensive arrangements for financial and economic planning. The bill we're talking about doesn't regulate many problems, but its goal is not to provide refugees with employment, but to provide them with cheap labor at all costs. We can also understand this from the emphasis of the secular labor force in the bill. First of all, it must be stated that drafting a bill under the concept of a dedicated labor force is discrimination among victims who have fled the war and come to our country. There is already an unemployed and qualified labour force. This shows that the purpose of the bill is not the need for qualified labor, but the need for cheap labor. The draft law on this aspect is the final link in the effort to overcome the current economic crisis with anti-employment policies. In some ways, there was a segregation of language used in drafting the bill, while in some ways a wholesaler approach was used. It's discrimination, because the definition of "soy" is used as a standard. Coming from any lineage does not guarantee being qualified and trained labor force. Therefore, it is irrational for individuals such as the race, race, ethnicity, to determine specific applications for work permits based on traits that they themselves cannot decide. He is a wholesaler, because he is mentioned under the definition of a foreign labor force, along with the concepts of immigrants and refugees. However, the concepts of immigrants and refugees differ. The bill is alsomelted because it does not include any articles or exceptions related to women, children, LGBTI and disabled individuals. When the attitude towards employment of foreign labor is determined, the principle of positive discrimination regarding employment of these groups must be observed. In the past few weeks, the 724 main legislation passed by the Commission included similar regulations. It can be neither human honor nor democratic values to make a run through war-torn immigrants, to discriminate against them, to separate those who are qualified as cheap labor. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to talk a little bit about the content of the bill. In drafting the bill, what sectoral data will be based on determining the need for labor? This matter has been obscured. Is there an institution in Turkey that holds this data? It is stated that the need for foreign employment and other issues under the law will be required by public institutions and organisations to ask for information from real and legal persons. The public institutions and institutions to request information should be made clear who are the real and legal persons involved. Again, professional organisations and state-owned unions who are excluded from drafting the bill must be included in the form of an institution. Because there is no institution that knows the quality of a profession better than the institution that represents it. Another article mentions that the opinion of public occupational institutions will be taken into consideration in cases required by the Ministry. What is meant by what is needed? These conditions need to be clearly defined. The benchmarks planned for the evaluation and selection of qualified labour force must be guaranteed to meet objective criteria, and these criteria must be set in a transparent and participatory manner. Again, it does not include professional associations or rooms for the permit of foreigners who will work in vocational qualifications in the bill. This decision is only left to the relevant ministries, which means the establishment of the authorities of the professional rooms and units. In addition, what profession groups will be considered a professional professional professional group in the bill? What is meant in the title of working for the public? Together with the bill, Turkey is granted permission to work for foreign architects, engineers or city planners. When granted a work permit, foreigners do not seek academic or professional qualifications. One of the most important articles of the bill is the 28th article. Article 34 of TMMOB Law No. 6235 has been lifted from the scope of the 28th Article (1) of the decrees lifted and replaced and the most important part in the section of the sanctioned provisions is that TMMOB will not be involved in any way. It will cause significant problems in practice in terms of professional competence. This joke must be removed from the article text. Again, in the 4th article of the same clause, the application for the SEC to receive an opinion from the Ministry of Interior is asked to be lifted. It is not appropriate for public servants not to have security checks. Mr. President, good lawmakers, there must be arrangements to prevent employers from using these people as cheap labor force in Turkey, especially by acting on the grounds of the troubling substance in the business bill, on the grounds of the attack and discrimination against immigrants and especially the Syrians, from the fact that people who live, are forced to live, especially from Syria, are part of the cheap labour market in Turkey. Non-discrimination practices for these workers must be prevented. In this framework, Turkey must approve the International Labour Organization's Convention on the Employment of Migrant Workers 97, so that a more effective fight should be fought against discrimination between immigrant workers and domestic workers. The important thing to be noted here is that regulations such as reciprocity, equality, control and discrimination bans are made and that trade rooms and trade unions participate in the process in the process. The issue of immigration labor is a very delicate issue. Avoiding universal standards regarding human rights and labour rights can lead to racism, alien hostility, and hate crime. All these sensibilities must be considered. As a result, all migrant workers, especially Syrian migrant workers who have become part of the working class, must be saved from inhuman working conditions. On the basis of the class brotherhood, all work must be done to benefit from all rights, especially access to public services, work under equal conditions and organisation. When the working conditions for immigrants are set, they should never be discriminated against by qualified labor force. In this sense, there must be a decisive struggle against racism, discrimination, and anti-immigrantism. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0050par0072	Thank you, Mr. Heroalp. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Aytuğ Atcı will speak. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0051par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a pledge today on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group, on the whole of the International Labor Law bill, which the government has brought to the agenda of the Supreme Assembly. As against all blows, military or civilian, armed or unarmed, I salute all lawmakers who do not think to be fed by blows, not just by coup attempters and parallelists, but by the secular, democratic republic established by Ataturk, who do not applaud those who go on a witch hunt to destroy all opposition factions. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the uncertainty of our country, which is being driven into darkness by a military coup attempt, is spreading. Our people are watching with great concern and are concerned about tomorrow. Today's national security committee has been informed that important decisions will be made, and our people are concerned that a state of emergency will be declared. So, given these concerns, if you'll excuse me, I've decided to do my speech in two parts. In the first chapter, I will try to evaluate the dark picture of the country and then the International Labor Bill. Dear friends, it doesn't matter who the coup is; there's no point in knowing whether they're civilians or soldiers; is the coup planned by a group or a single person, and that doesn't mean anything. No matter who's done it, no matter who's done it, we curse the coup with violence. The damage the coups have done to our country, I think, is well known to lawmakers who are sitting at the moment, unfortunately, who are over 50 -- a large majority -- who are about the average age of 50. We'll put that aside. It's not that hard to say you're against a coup, to curse a coup. The sane person, with a little bit of human love in his heart, with a little bit of democracy left, of course, will come out here and curse the coup, but it's the second chapter that matters. In the second chapter, why Turkey has become like this, we must investigate it. Today, we need to put this on the table, who fed and raised these cursed coupgers. Who gave these coupkers everything they wanted, and we must make sure that all of this is on the table, and we must prevent Turkey from ever coming to this again. There's been a lot of talk about the coup, a lot of speculation. There's still a lot of stuff going on in the dark. I won't mention any of this, but we all know that any scenarios that are going to be produced here are possible. Not through scripts, but based on some concrete findings, we're going to ask some questions. These questions are crucial to how our country will be managed in the process after the coup attempt, and how the safety of people's lives and property will be provided by staying within the law. Besides, if we can answer these questions in this situation, we'll see who might be involved, who might be to blame. Now, look, the Turkish Armed Forces' statement yesterday... the Turkish Armed Forces issued an important press release yesterday and made some important points. I'm only going to read you two articles from this press release. The Turkish Armed Forces in Article 3 says: "We are gathered on Friday (July 15, 2016) at approximately 4 p.m. on Friday (July 15th) with the knowledge of the coup by the National Intelligence Agency. (Friday, July 15th, 1600 p.m.) And the Turkish Armed Forces in Article 4 says that, in accordance with the information received, at the exact moment of the necessary warnings and orders to this vile and wretched enterprise/ to the responsible authorities... (Look, he doesn't say two hours later, he doesn't just say, "We spoke amongst ourselves." ...the relevant/responsive authorities were given the necessary warnings and orders immediately and in the broadest form. Now, this is a very important and historical document. The Joint Chiefs say: I heard the blow at 1,600, and immediately gathered, and gave immediate information to all concerned. Now, it's 22 p.m. after 4:00 p.m. when the first planes were heard. By the time it's been up to 100, it's important to know who's doing what. We'll put this on the table. I don't blame anyone after you, but in the past six hours, if this coup attempt could have been avoided, we'll have to put it on the table. It is clear from here that this information was delivered clearly to the President and the Prime Minister. After all this important information, I think it's imperative that the authorities explain to our nation what's going on in these six hours. At that time, we did not take kindly to being called "God's blessing." As we didn't welcome it, the public felt that if everyone knew, if the government couldn't prevent it, the coup was known to fail, and the attempt was allowed?
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0052par0086	Don't!
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0051par0087	This approach, this thought, needs to be disproved immediately, and it needs to be disproved immediately. The authorities, the authorities, will come out, they will tell our nation what happened in those six hours, and that doubt will not be eating away at anyone. Look, I said that any scenario is possible, but I'm not writing a script, so I'm warning you from here on the specs and the people who need to give us information. Yes, the land has been brought to the edge of the cliff, the stones of the coup have been laid for years, and thankfully, this vile attempt was prevented by the terror of our people, the media and all the parties, without any distinction, otherwise we would all be at the bottom of the cliff today. Okay, let's refresh our memory. For 30 years, what have we said about the intellectuals of this country, the Fethullah Laughing Congregation, and the Fethullahists? All the intellectuals were sent to say that they were not useful to the state and to the nation, that the fethullahists wanted to bring a law order and that they were nesting in the state, that all the intellectuals were burned, that all the intellectuals were punished, and that when the Justice and Development Party was told not to cooperate with them, let this longing come now from Pennsylvania. Now, unfortunately, this dangerous painting of the patriarchal patriots telling the tale of age has come to light. Now, if anyone wants to take advantage of this grim painting, any person, any political party, any group, if they want to take advantage of it, we will continue to stand against these people as we stand against the coupters, traitors. Standing against the low blow of July 15 is not about allowing democracy to be put on the shelf, it's about making universal law forgettable. We will never stand by and watch the regime be changed by resisting this coup. We will not approve of those who oppose this coup and seek to bring the law against the Ataturk republic. We will not allow torture against the coupgers or the people who have not yet been proven guilty by resisting this coup. The coupgers must be punished as severely as possible, no discussion, no discussion. However, torturing a person without a constant crime, allowing inhumane practices would never be appropriate for our great government, and we will not allow it.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0053par0094	Mr. Horseman, I'll add to your time, I have an announcement to make. Congressmans, the president of the Dianet Affairs and the chief of our county and the president of the High Council of Religious Affairs and its members are now here to welcome them on behalf of our House. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0054par0101	It is our duty to punish the traitors who are firing on the people in our High Council. However, We will surely question those who cause them to be cut off. We're not going to stand up to the July 15th coup and watch anyone who's attacked Alevis, Kurds, non-Muslims, Syrians or cut off our soldiers' heads. Those who allow such a blow, those who are involved in such a blow, will surely be punished with the most severe punishment. However, those who take advantage of this environment and try to live up to their own wild and immoral ambitions, my dear friends and friends, they are bound to be held accountable by this Parliament. I'm calling everyone from here. Such responsibility cannot be given to the government alone. Here with his power and opposition, we have more work to do than ever. Here, the government has to ensure the safety of the people's property and lives, and for that, it has to act hand in hand. It's a historical responsibility. The situation will be much worse with mass purges as we carry out this responsibility. The immediate liquidation of 15,000 people from the Ministry of National Education, the request for the resignation of 1,777 deans, the removal of more than 30,000 civil servants in total, is a collective liquidation. When did you take these off? Did you tag these? If you did, why did you wait until today? If you didn't plug it in, you're doing a total liquidation? It's wrong to do that, it's murder. You've had us memorize the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations 2911, and you've given us a lot of statements about this, but today you've used 2911 very well, congratulations, right; 2911 is legitimate and should be used. Here is the Republican People's Party on Sunday (July 24th). At 00, the democratic rally against coups will be held in all Turkey with a large and enthusiastic crowd. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, we said that those who attempt a coup and a coup should be accounted for, but the United States authorities say there is no demand for extradition on Fethollah Gulen. If such a demand does not exist, you will explain to our nation, and if so, then you will go out, and you will deny the United States here. We said resisting this job, resisting the blows, it's a tough unit, not arming people, so don't let anyone allow that kind of mistake. We find the call of the President's Chief Public Assembly to be armed. We find it very dangerous at the point and we want it to be removed immediately, and these words to be taken back. Now, dear friends, the bill that was brought before us was brought before us in the 24th term. His current name was the International Labor Act, and that's when he came to us as a bill for the work of foreigners. It's an unacceptable law with the number of lines written in its original form and the number of rows distributed to you. The Commission has been told many times that they have serious problems. So much so that the business was stubborn, that the commission had not even paused for iftar. After working until the middle of the night, the point of the bill was adopted by AKP members without changing the decimal. Now, an invitation from the government has been searched for a compromise. We thank the Minister for remembering such ground, but I wish this bill had been called upon and we hadn't been so tired during the Commission. Now, as a result of yesterday's meeting, our concerns over issues that have forced them into the Turkish Chamber of Architects and Engineers, which have caused them trouble, which have opened up some ways for giving citizenship to Syrian refugees, have been carefully assessed by the government and have been promised to make arrangements that will satisfy our concerns. This promise will surely be fulfilled. We haven't reviewed the new motions. I just saw the message, new motions have been made, sent. Now, as soon as I'm done talking, I'll look into it. I'm sure the promises are kept there. And that's how we're going to come up with a new bill that we're going to come up with with with a joint motion, and we think we're going to do a good job with a new bill that will be submitted to your approval. In short, what does this bill bring? It helps to establish a general managership in the international workforce. It allows the data to be collected here, analyzed. Some policies are being created to prevent foreign work off the books. These are important and necessary. Pointing out: certain arrangements are being provided to organise the work of qualified foreigners and to give them a turquoise card, and serious arrangements for permits for foreigners are being provided. There were two things we focused on the most: the first was a turquoise card, and the second was the decoding of our concerns about the citizenship of Syrian asylum seekers, and then the power of vocational rooms. The turquoise card was available to everyone the Council of Ministers predicted, or at least that's how we understood it. With a proposal coming in now, we are preventing the release of turquoise cards from Syria to those who are temporary asylum seekers, so 3 million people will not come from Syria with a turquoise card and become citizens of the Republic of Turkey. However, this does not mean that these people will not become citizens of the Republic of Turkey because the President gave them the good news that they would be granted citizenship - even from TOKI. Now, it doesn't make sense to give citizenship to 3 million Syrians while the people who fight for their lives in the preservation of this country, the people who fight for their lives, the people who pay their taxes, the people who serve them, and the people who do all kinds of service. We don't want anyone to misunderstand us. The Republic of Turkey is a great state and protects those who take refuge, helps those who take refuge; we have no objection.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0055par0113	Mr. Horseman, I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0054par0115	However, these people do not need to be citizens. If there are AKP people who know how to direct the president's statement, let each one of them take a Syrian into his population, so that they can become citizens and benefit from their heritage. That way, the burden won't fall on the poor citizen. Therefore, it is imperative that we help the Syrians to return safely to their homeland, knowing that they want their homeland, not citizenship. It's not too hard to do that either. Therefore, it is not right for us to attach citizenship to very cheap jobs. Now, here's to qualified labor. The government, who says, "I will bring in the skilled labor force." Firstly, it says that it is imperative that our own offspring flee abroad, preventing our qualified people from going abroad, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0055par0118	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor of Kahramanmarash will speak. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0056par0122	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party over the general bill of the International Labor Law, 403 rows. On this occasion, I salute and greet you with greetings and greetings from our beloved nation, whom I have always been proud to be a member of. Meanwhile, I congratulate you on the 42nd anniversary of the peacekeeping operation, which provides independence and freedom for Turkish Cypriots. I ask God's mercy to those who have passed on to eternal life, and to our living veterans for health and happiness. Dear lawmakers, July 15, 2016, the date of July 15, 2016 is remembered as a black day when a handful of bad people have taken the Chief of Staff, some military commanders, many public institutions, our Veteran Assembly, hundreds of soldiers, civilians, police, innocent people, were martyred, human values have been nullified. This vile attempt, this dark coup attempt, has not only targeted the elected government or lawmakers, but the entire Turkish nation. The attacks that took place on July 15, 2016 were as much a coup attempt as a bloody terrorist attack. Democracy is overturned, the virtues and relics of the national will are saved at the last moment. The black stain, which is intended for national will, has again been cleansed by our nation's determination and determination. Without any hesitation, without any hesitation, without any hesitation, without the slightest hesitation, that the worst civil administration is better than the best military administration, that the nation's will is better than the best military administration, that it should never be allowed to interfere in its will in illegal ways, that our esteemed president, Dr. President of the State Garden, who has sincerely believed in its understanding that it should never be interfered with the nation's will, would not be encouraged to send the MPs to the Grand Assembly, without expecting the initiatives to be seen in the sky by calling Mr. Prime Minister right away, without thinking of running away, without thinking of running away from the MHP headquarters. Our president's attitude has been the breaking point of the coup attempt, the lights of our headquarters have illuminated the citizen. It is our greatest desire for our nation to be an example of the great courage of our Mr. President, who has earned the appreciation of the great Turkish nation by leading our nation to a national will with flags in his hand. The heart would want many people in authority and influence to have a national will before any account is expected, just as Mr. President did. After the course of the incident is revealed, I strongly condemn those who are the apostles of democracy. This has once again revealed how corrupt his values have become. With you, the betrayals of those who serve as commanding officers are a clear and painful example. It is one of our greatest wishes and prayers that the Great Mevla could protect our country from such despicable attempts to deal with many enormous problems. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, by the way, I must point out that this big, low-life incident that a few people haven't planned in a couple of hours is a matter of important considerations, not a few hours before the incident, but days before the fact. The President's allegations that the Chief of Staff, the people closest to the Joint Chiefs, were not in itself, but in this attempt -- I'll underline it -- are not even acceptable. There are many lessons to be learned because of this foul attack and attempt. Although we're not saying that we're swallowing some issues today because of the heat of the incident, I'd like to point out that even though it was explained over and over and over again yesterday, we're also watching with caution that those who claim this mindset with our insults, with these statements, today, are doing democracy, as well as the human rights apostle. I pray for God's mercy to our security guards, to our civilian citizens, who have been martyred by these attacks, and to our wounded, and to their immediate healing. Our martyrs and veterans, our country, our democracy, have sacrificed themselves for our freedom and independence. I bow before courage, sacrifice, country and nation's love. Dear MPs, of course I strongly condemn the coup attempt, the attacks on the will of the great Turkish nation. But these events have shown that our great nation needs more unity and unity today than ever before. Therefore, all kinds of terror in the country must be avoided. Trust justice, law in the country must be established immediately. It must be given to the employees, it must not be discriminated against, it must be transparent, it must be protected from unemployment, it must be prevented from waste. The fight against corruption must be effective, and the Turkish nation has shown more than enough of its merit, with the support of its labor, day and night, leaving its power, and the value of that attitude must be appreciated. Honourable MPs, Turkey's resources are scarce. As active populations increase each year, the unemployed population increases by hundreds of thousands each year. The economy, the unemployed population, is unable to perform to absorb the population that joins the labour force every year. Our human being has become an expat abroad and abroad. Let's use overseas resources, of course, but let's keep in mind that the putr doesn't turn into a mill with water. As long as we care about unity and unity, our love and respect for each other, work, sweat, education, efficiency, we will surely go much further. The only source of development, progress, is internal factors. As we have stated at first, the arrival of a stranger in our country, his work in certain areas, of course, can be supported, but there has never been a country that has been developed by foreign admiration, depending on a stranger to help a stranger. We should do the same in foreign lands as we do in our people. We must not make Turkey a foreign waste. However, trust in our country must be maintained at the highest level. If we can't build trust, you can't attract foreign scientists and artists, investors, or even kidnap them. As a matter of fact, at this point, many foreign investors have begun to leave Turkey. Dear lawmakers, in 2015, foreign investors sold $7.6 billion Turkish assets. HSBC decided to sell its presence in Turkey, which it invested 25 years ago. Germany's Portago has ended its operation in Turkey. Companies, such as banking, are strangers in similar preparation. Citigroup sold their shares in Akbank. The French oil company sold Total shares. In 2006, the Austrian company, which bought the Petroleum Office for $3 billion, decided to quit distribution. Norway's Statcraft has decided to leave Turkey. Topshop closed 10 stores in Turkey. British retail giant Tesco has left Turkey. The number of direct investments entering Turkey in the first three months of 2016 was 2 billion dollars, down 52 per cent. However, that amount was $4 billion,236 million during the same period of 2015. The foreign direct capital entry is reduced from $3 billion to $1 billion, with a reduction of 70 percent. The economy will go much further if the measures are not taken quickly. Honourable lawmakers were presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 23/06/2016 by the International Labor Law drafted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. The bill was transferred to the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission on 24/06/2016 a day later. In short, the bill came to the Commission on Friday. The bill that came into the commission -- perhaps -- has been reported by AKP commissioners, lawmakers, but I know that the Commission does not know about the other members who are not AKP members. The bill was discussed immediately on 28/06/2016 and adopted without any changes as it came in. On the day the bill will be discussed in the Commission, I would like to state that we have been called to the Commission immediately. It is clear that a study of such an important bill must be studied. However, working on it has not been an opportunity to study the bill. The bill passed the Commission without a day's work before the bill was given to the Commission, after working on it for days as theorists and practitioners, after working on its expertise and relevant units. The swift admission of such an important bill to the Commission in a day or two shows that the opposition is ignored. It is not a participatory understanding when our country needs more unity and unity than ever, mutual love and respect, consultation, and the contribution of the opposition is ignored. Despite all that, yesterday, our Minister of Labour and Social Security, Mr. Süleyman Noble Bey, was pleased to give us a new assessment of the agreement. With its opposition to power, the goal is to ensure our country's maximum benefit from the legislation to be passed. The law on the work permits of foreigners issued in 2003 is lifted from the law. It also makes significant changes in the International Protection Act 6458 and in the laws of some professions. A general directorate is established in charge of the matter. For a significant change, a turquoise card is brought in. It specifically aims to bring qualified labor force to Turkey. The International Employment Policy Advisory Board is established. Although in some ways it is possible to take a positive approach to the bill, such hesitations have been resolved at the end of the consultation, when the bill has negative provisions against our country, our employees, our unemployed. Dear lawmakers, the bill has been brought in to form the International Employment Policy Advisory Council on the integration of NGO and institutions on this purpose, the establishment of international labour force policies, the removal of the authority to create international labour force policy in this framework to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security and the establishment of the International Labor Office, the establishment of information on international labour force, and the analysis of the necessary data on international work force, and the development of policies on preventing the non-registered work of foreign workers, the removal of obstacles to the labour market, and the establishment of a high-qualified human service system for the ministry, and the establishment of the establishment of the international labour system, and the establishment of the international labour system, and its responsibilities, and its responsibilities, and its responsibilities and its responsibilities are underprivitations. In the study of foreigners, instead of applying for permission, residence, many municipalities, the collection of power will reduce bureaucracy and speed up the process. However, the fact that the turquoise card brought in by law opened the way of citizenship to foreigners, that the conditions of giving the turquoise card were not attached to objective criteria, that the minimum qualities of people to be given were not included in the bill, that the ministry should be left to the discretion of the ministry, that the condition of professional competence for foreigners should not be sought, that the establishment of the foreign authorities should not be asked to conduct a degree while the existence of foreigners is a reality, and that they should not be asked for "studentity" while in foreign employment there is no jurisdiction over the protection of the unemployed labour force in the country, the study of foreign institutions and foundations. A new arrangement brought with the bill is the International Employment Advisory Board. It is one of the new regulations for representing the majority, allowing social parties to participate in the principles of the International Labour Organization, whose short name is ILO. It was an important flaw in our country that workers and employers' institutions -- most important social entities -- were not represented on the board. It is also considered a significant flaw in the absence of the chairmanship of the Social Security Institution from the implementation of social security contracts and the provision of foreign social security. We believe that the participation of vocational rooms, employees and employers in both the requirements of the ILO principles, and to benefit from their savings, will bring significant benefits. Dear lawmakers, there are hundreds of public health and professional high schools in our country. Again, hundreds of private health clinics operate in this area. If you add them to many universities of universities of health universities, health sciences universities, science schools that grow biologists, thousands of professional qualified health workers join the unemployed army each year. The job of our citizens' children, who have been through a lot of hard work, will destroy most of our narrow-income citizens. The market's already full, and the industry is literally in no position to take on additional labor. It is our primary expectation that the relevant ministries will be sensitive to the pre-signature. It's more appropriate to leave the matter to the relevant ministries because it's a residency unit. Dear lawmakers, an important innovation brought in by the bill is the turquoise card system. The turquoise card will provide significant advantages for the given. It will facilitate foreign work and residence permits. The turquoise card holders can be granted an exceptional citizenship. I would especially like to point out that it would not be in the country's best interest to open the way to temporary protection. Because the turquoise card opens the way for direct citizenship to its owners. He will also provide a residence permit for the spouse and children he is obliged to care for, not just for himself. The common use of this card will not serve the purpose when the qualified labor force is intended. Therefore, when given this card, it must be very thorough. It is in the country's interest to look at the turquoise card as more than a wannabe over 10 per cent of the time, given the total six million unemployed residence permits that have been increased by nearly one million college graduates, and the year-long increase in residence permits. We also think that this card should be attached to objective criteria rather than given. Dear lawmakers have been asked to provide public aid associations for foreigners who have a residence permit in Turkey with the bill, and tax exemptions to work in the foundations, but it is appropriate that this clause be removed from the bill as a result of consultation. Turkey does not need this. It will not be possible to understand the intention of the foreigner to work in associations and foundations, but it is possible for the foundation and its members to reach important data. Therefore, I would like to point out that we find it appropriate that this clause be removed from the bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm running out of time, so I'd like to finish my discussion by making a point. We just had Mr. Forestry and Water Affairs Minister here. And he's not here right now, but I can tell you that Mr. Minister Veysel Eroglu has declared that their growth rate is going to zero because of his efforts to grant citizenship to Syrian refugees, while Turkey has grown 5 per cent in prayer and blessing to have a growth rate that has entered the world's top 4 · Global Voices. Minister, Turkey has also grown more than 5 per cent in past Syrian times. The money spent so far for Syrian immigrants has been expressed by official authorities as $11 billion. Such a statement is unfair to the Turkish people, to ignore the sacrifice of our people, and I salute the grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0057par0145	Thank you, Mr. Tor. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are complete. Now we're going to start speaking for him. The first speaker will be Mr. Mustafa Baloglu, the Konya MP on behalf of himself. Mr. Baloglu, come in.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0058par0151	Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on the International Labour Law Bill. I salute your committee. First, on the evening of July 16th, we faced an invasion and coup attempt by terrorists who infiltrated the Turkish Armed Forces and state institutions. I condemn them, and just after that invasion attempt, the glorious sons of the glorious nation were thrown out onto the streets and repelled this coup attempt. I salute the glorious sons of this glorious nation. At that moment, I salute all our citizens, who rise above the tanks, cut off the tanks, shielding the bullets, and again, all of them, in their homes, in their streets, reacting. I wish our veterans a speedy recovery. I ask God's mercy for our martyrs, and I ask patience for their families. Of course, these terrorists who have infiltrated the government have never been idle until now, and they won't be idle anymore. And I would like to say that all measures will be taken against them, and that there will be every criminal action taken against those in particular. We just had a visit from our city bar presidents to our Assembly with the Turkish Bar Association. I believe this is very important. But in all of these, I condemn the fact that the Constabulary of parallel structures, known by all the people of Ionians, has been repeatedly charged with the dissolution of parallel structures, and even I thank them very much for the reaction of our esteemed Consorts outside the House, and I would like to share with you my deep regret that the President of the Constabulary has been able to come here and that this national will can be found under the roof of Congress, which is known to this friend. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) It's a weakness, it's an dishonor.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0059par0155	Bravo, Mr. Mustafa!
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0058par0156	I again condemn the fact that a dissolution to the parallel structure can be found under the roof of this House, which is known to all, that the national will that was bombed by it can come under a roof, as a weakness.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0060par0157	A few of the presidents were hosted here, and you can tell them that they're in the People's Assembly.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0058par0158	So I'm giving them the necessary reaction, and again, I wish I was here, and I wish I had been one of our precious, honored Iconians, and I'd have shown them a full reaction to their reaction. I'd really like to use a lot of statements, but this bench prevents me from using these expressions, and the discipline that I've received prevents me from using these expressions on this platform. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the state's intervention in economic and social life differs as far as periods of time, in terms of both content and tools used. One of the key tools of state intervention is the regulations that bring significant benefits for both individuals and businesses. The effects of globalization are felt in different areas of life, and modern developments in international migration are also influenced by this phenomenon. Human migration, a phenomenon as ancient as human history, has taken on a different dimension, especially today, under the influence of globalization. Today, the phenomenon of migration is not only spontaneously developed, but also controlled and directed by governments. In particular, labor force migration is at the top of areas where this impact is felt. Since the 1990s, the country has become a country of transit, a country of destinations, while the country has been a source of labour-force migration in the 1980s. This change also shows itself clearly in numerical data on working permit. For many years, the number of work permit applications at several thousand levels increased rapidly over the past few years, especially at a level of 10,000 in 2009, the number of applications was close to 80,000 in 2015. The number of people who have come to our country to work is estimated to be close to 150,000, as part of a work permit exemption. In today's 19th century world, the labor force of powerful, strong, young, and courageous individuals for the purpose of collecting and processing agricultural products is described as an age of knowledge, and is being sought out by countries that have qualified, skilled, or entrepreneurial properties and offer attractive opportunities and opportunities. In other words, however, the internationally qualified labor force, considered a brain immigrant, shows a strap to countries that are affordable for easy work. The countries also have to improve their ability to be active in this dynamic competitive environment. It is also not accepted for the unqualified, uneducated, or uneducated labour force that may pose a burden in the social economy, and every day it is imposed on immigration policies that make visas and residence permits difficult. The authority to be granted work permits in different institutions and institutions has not been fully achieved by Law number 4817, issued for reasons such as the dissolution of legislation. Permissions granted to foreigners working in free zones by the Ministry of Economics are still seen to continue to work at higher education institutions by foreign academics, the university board decision and the declaration of the Council of Higher Education to the Ministry of Interior. Since 2003, there have been serious and meaningful increases in the number of people coming to work in our country. The number of foreign work permit applications reached about 10,000 in 2009, reaching 80,000 at the end of 2015. The stability of our country in terms of economic policy over the past decade has made the country an attractive country for foreign investments. Hence, the need to review Law 4817 and relevant regulations that are behind such developments has arisen. In particular, the infrastructure required to attract internationally qualified labor to our country cannot be provided by this law. Permissions issued under Law 4817, laid down as procedure law, are valid after three separate bureaucratic procedures by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Labor and Social Security. Due to the war and instability of Turkey's border countries, it is necessary to implement legislation in accordance with Article 91 of Law 6458 that prevents non-registered foreign work, work permits and Turkish citizens to be able to work in a way that will not be affected by their employment. This includes a new law in accordance with national and international legislation, which helps determine foreign employment policies in accordance with our country's needs, which contributes to the attracting center of our country in terms of qualified foreign investors and employees, providing implementation unity for all foreigners working in our country. As a prerequisite of the European Union's accession process, the acquision, which we are obliged to adapt to, in particular, in accordance with the three chapters of the European Union's accession process, has been prepared under the protection provisions of the United Nations in the International Conventions on the Protection of All Migrant Workers and Family Ferts, under the World Trade Organization's Service Trade Trade General Agreement, and by implementing effective social dialogue mechanisms. In this context, the new regulations brought in by the bill: the establishment of the International Employment Policy Advisory Board, the establishment of implementation of labour permits, the reorganisation of labour permit exemptions by the Ministry and the restructuring of its scope, the grant of unlimited work permits for qualified foreign investors and employees to work on the basis of important rights, the access of the Council of Ministers for Foreign Science and Research and AR-Ge personnel, to allow the process to be allowed to work at a temporary or project-based level for architects and engineers to work at a foreign level. Again, these will be organised by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security under one roof, such as working permits provided by foreign academics, artists, athletes, trainers, and freelancers, with different applications from the 4817 Law being excluded. I wish the law to our country, to our nation. I salute you all with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0061par0168	Thank you, Mr. Baloglu. Now, on behalf of the government, Minister of Labor and Social Security, Mr. Süleyman Noble will speak for you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0062par0173	Mr. President, highly respected members of the Veteran Assembly, I'd like to begin by greeting you with love, respect, and conversation. I'd like to see and discuss the bill that we're going to discuss today in a much more appropriate environment. Because it would also be more effective for us to discuss a law that our Ministry has long been working on in 2015, which it passed through the commission as a bill and brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is actually very important for our country's economic life, working life, employment policies, here in a much more meaningful, more concentrated environment for the government. However, after a coup attempt on July 15th, which aims to expand, enrich our country, and free its entire detail in the coming process, our direct democracy, our direct national unity, our direct social consciousness, our direct future, and the direct development of our country. I'd like to point out that my family experienced the 1960 coup and 1980 coup, and that I was the mayor of the county during February 28th, and that I immediately became the mayor of the county, and that the first thing we have opposed in years after learning the alphabet is that democracy was cut down, that all the sufferings and all the lives of our family were actually walking through a Menderes metaphor, and that a great fear, a great trauma was brought to me in Turkey, a person who came to this day. I'd like to point out that the House we're in is the hero of our future struggle. There is no parliament in the world that will lead its own War of Salvation, its own will struggle. There have been many attempts in Turkey, many rebel movements and many riots, but I'd like to say that in the 1960 coup of the Turkish Parliament, surrounded by soldiers, there has been an attempt to seize his free will, but it is clear and clear here that for the first time, the building of this Fethullahist terrorist organization, the building of this Fethullahist terrorist organization, these scoundrels, these people, these democrats, these Turkey, and those who meant to eliminate the unity and unity and future of Turkey, especially those who intended to eliminate the ability of our democracy and our future in Turkey, for the first time in this form of bombing of the Great Nations Congress, and in fact, to take over only one other form of Turkey, to eliminate its rule. We were here that night when the Capitol opened. I want to make it very clear, before all of you, that I bow before all of our members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Ismail Kahraman, and our representatives and our friends from every political party group who come here, and our only goal when we see each other is to embrace democracy, loyalty to democracy, and the understanding that the unity and unity of our country can be achieved, with respect, respect, and the awareness of democracy. (EC PARTY and CHP rows) The greatest legacy we can leave our children is a free and democratic Turkey, the ownership of our republic, and the wealth and size of this country. We're in this consciousness. I want to say as a member of this country, as a minister, as a member of this country, who faced all kinds of challenges that night and faced many issues: while this coup was a hero of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, another hero of the great nation. The paintings I saw in Kızılay, the paintings I saw in front of the TRT, the paintings that the people presented around the Çankaya Mansion, and again, I want to make it very clear that when they come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with their children, along with their wife, the honor and honor of this nation will not pass through the history of Turkish democracy. There's a democracy in the world today. They humiliated us for years, humiliated all of us, and said, "You don't deserve democracy." As a son of this country in front of the Assembly, I want to make it clear that if there is a country and a nation that deserves democracy in the world, it is Turkey, it is the Turkish nation, it is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it is no one else. (AK PARTI, CHP and MHP) Because we know what happened to his family, after that, in the 1980 coup, with such a blow -- the 1960 coup, the 1980 coup, the 28 February, 27 April -- without fear, without fear, without fear, with every member of the community following him -- we know what happened to him, we know what happened to his family, and then, in the 1980 coup, what happened to the leaders in 1971, what kind of treatment every political party's president faces. And again, I want to say that in that statement, which determines the ability of the coupters to act in some way, it is clear and clear that the commitment to the detention of all MPs, the removal of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the complete seizure of the administration is clear in the statement they sent to all the so-called martial law commanders. Their goal is Turkey, their goal is democracy, and their goal is to somehow eliminate the understanding that Turkey has set out and is trying to somehow give the geography and the world around it. It's been brought to an inhuman understanding. Let me be very clear, Fethullah Gulen, this terrorist leader, this psychopath, when he comes to Turkey, I want to express how comfortable I will be as a son of this country. Each one of us needs to have a determination, and it will have an understanding of our democracy that it can be brought to Turkey, delivered to the justice authorities, judged and punished. I'd like to ask all of you: we're in the exact year 2016 after the 1960 coup -- fifty-six years later, we're still suffering from trauma. Allah bears witness that if they had succeeded, we would have faced a hundred years of trauma, including generations after us. Each of us would be spoken in families -- the leaders we loved, the President, the Prime Minister, the party presidents, the MPs; everyone here is one's hero, everyone is one's representative, those feelings inside them, those understandings would be talked about for years. Our ears, we grew up hearing it all the time. I was selling postcards on a holiday holiday in Istanbul in junior high school, with a tray of cards we bought from vinegar in the square, which we would take out our own allowance... and I took a picture of Menderes, because I grew up in the family, and I put it on that postcard table. We couldn't get enough of an old woman coming to that postcard table and putting her hand on that picture and crying for minutes, and I remember clearly what she said today. Thank God for the common will of each of us, and the will to demonstrate in the honor of this Veteran Assembly, against many black propaganda, against many misdirections, against information. Yes, the laws can be made, as I said the other day, as if God had made me say so, and on the first day we face this law, our friends in the Commission will remember very clearly: with these laws, Turkey will not be saved, but the understanding that we will put forward is appropriate for the architecture of the future Turkey. I said, what's going to happen? I told you yesterday. We, with this law, are not going to save Turkey, we are going to save Turkey from democracy, through democracy, through our country's progress into tomorrow. Of course, we'll have different opinions, different opinions. Of course, in economics, in politics, in human resources, we may have different orientations, but I want to express that democracy is our common decision. I want to make another point: When we were in schools, when we were being described as a nation, there was a definition that we all knew in history, in grief, in glory, in unity. But now, a new and important decision of the nation's definition is another concept, which is that one of the most important feet of the element of being a nation is democracy. This consciousness sustains us today. We've always gone through this, when the 1960 coup was being discussed, when the 1980 coup was being discussed: I wish people had gone out on the street in 1960. I wish he'd gone out on the street. I wish they could do that. Our elders always sighed. After the 1980 coup, I wish our right-wing and left-wing children, the same mother's son, had not set each other up. We wished we could've understood this earlier that our brothers Alevi and Sunni had been pitted against each other, that 27 lottery players had spread out into the neighborhoods of Alevi and Sunni with an uncertain understanding of where they came from. Now we're in a time zone we wish we didn't call it. Let's not give anyone a chance. You can sit in the power seat, we can sit in the power seat. There's no meaning to it, but there's a meaning to it: the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to speak freely and freely here, and the will to express to the world that democracy and the constitutional system in Turkey works, and the will to not give up a traumatic period in our future is more important than any of them. We all have to do it and do it together. Let me tell you, our responsibility is greater than yesterday. Our responsibility is higher than yesterday, in a more important slice. Because these people are on the streets today. Thousands of people are there every day for the consciousness of democracy alone. Every day, thousands of people claim their bread, jobs, vaccines, sleep in the squares. This evening, they will perform a process where every political party will participate, every NGO will participate, with our moon-star flags, and somehow they will be able to reveal their integrity. This is the day. Having different arguments doesn't make it go away. It's important to know where we can be united today. So, again, I express my gratitude to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and to all political parties, to all of our MPs, to all of our nation's expectations, to all of us, to all of us. I'd like to say once again that we've established an important mission in history, that we've established a historical responsibility, that we haven't fallen into this coup plot, that we're all working together against elements that are trying to somehow bring Turkey back, and that this is our most important honor. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Now, I would especially like to give you a few minutes of information about this law. I have a script, I won't share. There's a law on foreign work permits at 4817 right now. We passed another law in 2014, 6458. The Law 4817 had some shortcomings of its own. Yeah, it was working. One, there was a lack of bureaucratics, a lot of work. Two, permits from the Ministry of Economics, permits from the Ministry of Youth Sports for footballers, permits from other ministries, harmonisation and synchronization of working life. So it had to be monitored one-handedly, coordinated in harmony with those ministries. And with all that, we're in a new world. We used to be a source country, so we were a country that transferred workers from here, and then we became a transit country. What do you mean you're a transit country? So Turkey has become a country that transfers workers from geography to world geography. But I'd like to say that today we are the target country. So we've become a country where many of the businesses around us want to work in Turkey, where they're looking for opportunities to work in Turkey, and they're looking for grounds for it. Now, we need to manage this well, and we need to come up with a sense of harmony between these laws, which is also 6458 to 4817. We also need to coordinate between institutions, and I would also like to say that we all have to follow what we call the International Labor Law, which is a new law that demonstrates our ability in accordance with these new economic conditions in the world. Again, at the same time, we, meanwhile, have looked at what positions the countries in the world have taken on these foreign jobs, what understandings they have for new economic and global lines, and we have seen that each of them is trying to create a attraction, especially at the point of attracting people from the outside who can contribute to their country. I just want to say that from Iran to Germany, almost all countries from European countries to Latin countries are building this understanding to achieve global competition on a global scale. And I want to say again, with all of that, we've come up with a study that's in line with national and international legislation, which is in line with the European Union directives, in line with other international legislation. Again, we've established a law that includes foreign employment policy in accordance with the needs of our country. Again, we are in the draft of a law that contributes to our country being the center of attraction in terms of qualified foreign investors and employees, and, again, to the integration of all foreign workers in our country. We're bringing in a turquoise card. Yeah, why bring a turquoise card? There's a reason we brought it. The reason we're bringing in is, yes, we're making very important investments, we're preparing Turkey for competition. Both international investments are being made, international direct investments are being made, and investments are being made with international companies, and we need a number of human resources that can compete with international companies while we invest. We need to give them a charm, and as the other countries do, they're both trying to make their transactions easier and their families comfortable here, and I want to express to them in particular that scientists, AR-GE, are in the field of technology, and I want to stress that we're trying to demonstrate an understanding that we're trying to draw qualified foreign labor to Turkey. I want to say that there are very important details on his behalf, especially in this part of the law, that there is going to be an important transitional process, and that there is somehow, after the transition, that he can be allowed to work again, indefinitely. I'd like to say that there are some arguments, some arguments, you're going to give citizenship. As Department of Labor, we don't have the right to give citizenship, and that law doesn't include that, but we've talked to our friends -- our friends in our party group and our friends in the opposition parties -- and that's just the law. As a minister, I have the right to offer as a citizen to a member of the Council of Ministers from abroad today, but when it comes to Turkey, the qualified foreign labor force can make such an offer to the Council of Ministers, which allows me to come to Turkey if I work. Or there is no such thing as our right to give citizenship and the virtue of the International Law on the Workforce. I want to make that very clear. Again, yesterday we met our friends, and we did an evaluation again. I want you to know that we've met in the same way that we've met in the previous Commission and in the previous law, we've done evaluations, we've done evaluations, we've done evaluations with NGOs. I don't agree with this criticism: we saw this law at the last minute. This law has been discussed a lot, this law has been discussed a lot. This law was spoken two and a half years ago, two and a half years ago, with all the details, all the NGOs, and again, before we came to the Commission, I want to state that we spoke again before we came to the Commission.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0063par0190	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you one more minute, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0062par0191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before this law came to the Commission, we met with all the parties before we came to the agenda of the Commission, and we did the evaluations on this law. We gave our own study project to all our fellow lawmakers, to their evaluations. After that, he came back to the Commission, we discussed it again, we reconsidered. Now, before coming to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, yesterday, we again demonstrated assessments of this law, and we agreed, and we agreed significantly, and I would like to say once again that this international labour force law will contribute greatly to both our working lives and international competition and Turkey's will to become a country in its own geography. I thank the very precious bureaucracy of our Ministry of Labor, and I thank all members of our Commission, especially members of our Commission, who have worked meticulously from the day we brought this law, and to all members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, especially Mr. President, who will demonstrate their own efforts in this law. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0064par0196	Thank you, Minister. On behalf of him, the last speaker will be Zonguldak MP Mr. Ünal Demirtaş. Here you are, Mr. Demirtaş.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0065par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly and the citizens who are watching us on their screens. I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the overall bill of the International Labor Law, 403 rows. First, I wish God's mercy to our officers, soldiers, and citizens who were killed in the coup attempt on the 15th of July, and to their relatives, and to their wounded, and to their immediate healing. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is going through historic days. Unfortunately, our Veteran Assembly was first attacked and bombed by the coupgers on the evening of July 15th. Another dark day in our history of democracy took place in the coup attempt on July 15th. On July 15th, traitors who attempted coup intended to destroy Turkey's Grand National Assembly first, the democracy. This coup attempt has been avoided by power, all opposition, the press, NGOs and our citizens on the street, and our entire nation together. Our country is on the edge of a cliff. The coupgers have failed, the winner is democracy. As the great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, the sovereignty was unconditionally the nation's. Dear lawmakers, those involved in this coup attempt and their partners must be brought to justice and given the harshest punishments that can be passed within the law. However, when investigating the coup attempt, the principles of universal law and the basic principles of law should not be violated, a fair and impartial trial must be made; neither must the stem be mixed with straw, nor should age burn with the dry, but should remain in law. Remember, the implementation of a fair and impartial judgment and universal law is essential to democracy. The law may need all of us one day. During the coup attempt, crimes against privates and privates who were forced to perform their patriotic duty must also be investigated within the law. Those who commit crimes against these men should not be punished. Those who attempt a coup must be punished just as they will be punished. Dear MPs, the next process should not be a process that suspends democracy and Constitution. Those who govern the state must be discreet and act calmly. The government shouldn't hold grudges. The steps to normalise Turkey, to reduce tension in society, to fully live democracy and the state of law must be taken quickly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there are lessons for all of us to learn from these events. When the coup attempt began, our first congresswoman friends in parliament are our Vice-President, Mr. Bulent Tezcan, Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan, and Chorum MP Flood Kose. Our fellow MPs from other parties are here as soon as possible. I came to the House immediately and was in the House until morning with orders from our president to all of our MPs. That night, we defended the House, arm in arm, along with our fellow congressmen from all the parties. From what happened that night, the importance and value of a strong and functioning parliament was once again revealed. Hopefully, this bitter experience will be an opportunity for a strong parliament in the coming days to fully settle down in our country; for a more advanced, quality and stronger democracy, democracy will literally settle in our country. Come, from now on, let's join hands with the opposition of power, strengthen our democracy and strengthen our Parliament. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, I hope that by learning from these developments, we will enter a period of peace and peace for peace, for the benefit of the whole of Turkey, by putting the polarisation, discrimination in society aside. At this point, the most important task falls to the ruling party. Now that I've made the ruling party, it's the right thing to say. Friends shouldn't say it. He must now listen to the voice of different parts of society and heed its warnings. When he makes decisions, he must make them with compromise, and when he makes laws, he must make them with compromise. Dear lawmakers, I hope that once again our democracy does not experience similar dark days, democracy will literally settle in our country forever. Precious lawmakers, according to ISKUR data in Turkey, the number of unemployed is about 3 million, but the total number of unemployed is about 6 million, since 3 million are unregistered. About 700,000 of these unemployed are our fellow university graduates. Again, we have about 350,000 unassigned teachers. And when it comes to underprivileged teachers working under contract, they have no permanent business. So we have, like, a million college unemployed, qualified unemployed. Now, while these people are unemployed, these people can't contribute when they want to contribute to the country's economy, we say we should bring in an imported engineer, architect, doctor, teacher. That's not gonna happen, guys. When our engineer, our architect, our teacher, our people are unemployed, it's wrong to import foreign engineers, architects, teachers from the outside. With so many unemployed in our country, it will be easier for these foreigners to work in Turkey, easier for them to move to Turkey and faster. In this way, the bill's legalisation of this bill presents a situation such as the incentive for foreign immigration to our country. According to the Ministry of Interior data, the valued MPs received 178 thousand foreign residence permits in 2005, but in 2010 the figures increased by 182,000; in 2011, 234,000 in 2012; in 2012, 311,000 in 2012; in 2013, 313,000 in 2013; in 2014, 379,000 in 2014, and in 2015. According to Labour Ministry data, 17,000 people were granted work permits in 2011, 32,000 people in 2012, 45,000 in 2013, 52,000 in 2014, and 64,000 in 2015. Dear lawmakers, when we have 6 million unemployed people, when we look at these numbers, the numbers of outsiders and foreigners we allow to live in are really frightening figures. With this issue, we must not bring a model here that will destabilise and undermine the labor market in Turkey, which will make our people unemployed. Dear MPs, as one of the most important reasons for the law, it appears that our country has become a target country, which is the center of attraction for those who come close to it or come from neighbouring countries. I'm looking at the reason why our country has become the center of attraction, is that really so? I'm afraid it's the other way around. When we look at the immigrants who have come in recent years, we see that they are mainly from Syria, Iraq, fleeing the civil war in their country, and that they are trying to move into a settled life in Turkey. Others are trying to go to Europe, ignoring their lives. Therefore, we see that rather than being inundated by qualified manpower to Turkey, the unqualified manpower is trying to flock to Turkey. So our biggest concern here is to open the way for unqualified human power to be employed in Turkey. If, of course, an American scientist is going to come to Turkey and do scientific work, why shouldn't he? Or if a German engineer, Pakistani engineer, is going to contribute to the development and progress of Turkey, if Turkey wants to come to Turkey, why shouldn't it, if it wants to move to Turkey? We have no objection to that, but the vast majority of those who want to come to Turkey have unqualified labor and when we look at numbers, it's huge. Unqualified labour force must be prevented from settling in Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Of course, when we referred these matters to the Minister, to power, a text came up as a result of a compromise. And in this text, we see that our concerns have been mostly resolved, and I thank the Minister and the President from here at this point in time. This way, with our concerns being resolved, we don't think there's a point in this bill where we're going to be very critical, but we'll see when the motions come in, and if anything comes out of our criticisms, we'll continue to bring up our criticisms. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0066par0221	Thank you. Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process. Our deadline will be 20 minutes; the first ten minutes of this time will be the Minister's office to answer the questions asked by the lawmakers, and the other ten minutes to answer the questions asked. Mr. Yasar? No. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0067par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the Grand Council, the Veterans Assembly. Soldiers, police officers and other public officials who have been detained on the night of July 15th for alleged involvement in an armed terrorist act are to be tried in accordance with the legal order and constitutional rules, under the basis of our international dignity and on the basis of their innocence. All of our institutions, especially all of the harmful elements within the security units, must be cleaned up in accordance with the rules of the law and order of investigation; that's what the Interior Ministry is for. It is his duty to establish the character of political authority, not the officer who swears to himself, but the man who acts in the interests of our republic, who enforces the law and obeys it. In addition, it is not right, on this occasion, to refer to all of our glorious past army as a coupting army, to accuse and to make it seem anti-democracy. Our army should not be discredited by acting with a sense of reckoning and revenge. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0068par0232	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0069par0233	Mr. President, I think the problems of those who are experiencing loss of rights should be overcome by an arrangement that will cover the use of children and young people who are still in training with those who have an apprenticeship, fraternal certificate, and who are not in the process of taking advantage of this right. While studying at vocational high school with apprentices under Article 41 of the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance (K) to be added to the first joke of Article 41, I have proposed that the first period of training of students under the Law and forced internship during their higher education was the start of the first joke of this substance (k). I'd like to know what you think of this as the Ministry. The fact that students who attend vocational courses and receive documents and internships while in vocational upper secondary school will be covered by insurance during their internships and vocational courses will prevent a loss. I'd like your opinion on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0070par0237	Thank you. Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0071par0239	On the 15th of July, I condemn and condemn the terror of the coup. Laik, to those who want to destroy the values of the democratic republic, who have so far supported the institution, the coupist terrorist organization in the institutions of the state, the constitutional legal system in civil administration, the relations between the coupgers and the dictators, our current democratic gains, the ones united on the same axis in an ideological union, the juntators, the dictators, the dictators and the dictators in the spirit of ISIS terror, are united on the same axis to destroy our democracy through July 15 coup terror. Freedom, peace, democracy, loving patriots, those who favor the secular republic of national feelings, will not allow the dictator and juntist understanding. We're going to live the nation's democracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0070par0241	Thank you. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0072par0243	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, due to certain developments, the annual permits of public employees from 657 have been lifted after the coup attempt on the night of July 15th. Some public companies also removed their permissions by including subcontractor status employees. Does the removal of annual permits include subcontractors? On the other hand, you've been working on a new legal arrangement for subcontractors over the past few months, but there's still no clear results. Are you still working on this, or is it completely off the government's agenda? In addition, considering recent developments, is a radical change planned, as stated in Officer's Law No. 657? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0073par0247	Thank you. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0074par0249	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is July 20th, the anniversary of the Suruç massacre. Unless the secret of these and such mysterious massacres is solved, we must act with the awareness that we will always live in a country capable of coups and never compromise democracy. There are many lessons to be learned on the night of July 15th and 16th. The fact that the coup was eliminated doesn't put us out of our misery. Yes, the coup was eliminated. Will democracy come to Turkey now? Turkey is in a region that has been nailed against huge domestic and external threats. It is possible not to fall into the wrongs of our neighbors, but to develop democracy and the parliamentary system that operates without a hitch with all its institutions and rules. For the way to prevent coups, I say democracy out of spite, republic out of spite, secularism out of spite!
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0075par0253	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0076par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, after the coup d'état on September 12th, violent acts were cut like a knife. Then we learned that the coup was decided two years ago, so those who condoned terrorism waited for the day when the impact conditions would mature. Is it possible that in our country, those who entered the race for live bombs and those who watched them were preparing this impact environment? Did we give so many martyrs to get our country into the climate of coup? The Grand National Assembly of Turkey must immediately investigate the terrorist incidents, starting with the Suruç massacre, which we now remember at the anniversary. Does the government have anything to do with this? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0077par0258	Thank you. Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0078par0260	Mr. Secretary, we know that unemployment is extremely intense in our country. I think it's not directly in your field right now, but as a human rights advocate, there's one thing I'd like to say about the right to work. Today, after the coup, several public officials have been dismissed or suspended for alleged closeness to the mindset of the coup. It's a law-enforcement policy, but aren't we making a legal error in the matter of termination? Aren't we creating September 12th 1402? Don't we need to be legitimate about it, to be fair about it? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0079par0263	Thank you. Mr. Saribal...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0080par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. The Minister said the 1960 coup on the stand, the 1980 coup, February 28th. And then there's the 1971 coup in this country. If there will be a intimacy, not just against the coups, but against civil coups, against the dictator, against fascism, if we're going to fight together, if we're thinking of a re-democratic Republic of Turkey, if we're predicting a concept that involves a secular, democratic, social law state, first of all, we're going to be sincere, we're going to speak together, we're going to speak together. Again, the anniversary of Suruç. Just as there are no perpetrators of the Suruç massacre, we would like to share once again that there have been no relevant investigations, no law enforcement. News update: The village of Ayatbaba in Bursa Mustafakemalpaşa... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the forest fires broke out twice within ten days. Unfortunately, there is no effort in either of them, it is said to be total sabotage... and I invite the authorities on duty.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0081par0271	Mr. Özdish... Mr. Ahrazoglu...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0082par0273	Mr. Secretary, it has been said that the pension of the head of the terrorist organization, Fethullah Gulen, has been cut off. Is that true? Why hasn't this been processed so far? In addition, it has been confirmed by the courts in which he is a member of the terrorist organization and is aiding and abetting, whether he is in the country or has fled abroad, how many pensions have been cut so far? Are any of these people out of pensions, including members of the Grand National Assembly? There's also a statement from you as former President of the Democratic Party in 2011, referring to the speech that Mr. Dr. State Gardeny made regarding the closure of the Fethullah Gulen. What do you think of those explanations for today? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0083par0277	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0084par0280	I had a question, Mr. President. It's not for another minute.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0083par0281	We don't have a minute, we've got 30 seconds, but okay, let's give it to him.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0084par0282	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0083par0283	Mr. Parsak, please. You have 30 seconds.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0084par0285	Let me make it clear, as Ahrazoglu asked. I listened very carefully, Mr. Secretary. In 2011, after Mr. President's righteous warnings, there was an operation of perception. He said that day. There must be a difference in his mind today, is he considering an apology? And when Mamak was a 17-day soldier at Mamak, the soldier who had not yet followed the command of the coupger was martyred four days ago, Kütahian. So we received information that none of our MPs had participated in this from Kütahya, that they were not treated as martyrs. Does Mr. Kütahya, the Commissioner, know about this? I'm going to pass that question on to him, as long as it's fair.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0083par0287	Okay, thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0085par0290	Thank you very much, first of all. In particular, on the night of July 15th, when Mr. Bektasoglu was considering this coup attempt and when he made all the arguments about this coup attempt clear, no one had given a sentence to all of our army, which was our eyeball, which was extremely wrong. I'd like to point out, of course, that this coup is going to be very controversial, so it's clear and clear that by the 1960 coup, the 1980 coup, the differences will be discussed, but this is a coup by a group within the Turkish Armed Forces trying to take over the Turkish Armed Forces. It involves a great injustice to both our military and our Armed Forces, both misleading and deceiving, to demonstrate an understanding that could cover all of our Turkish Armed Forces, who are fighting terrorism, who are heroicly asserting themselves, protecting our country's borders against the outside. The explanations on this matter are also very clear. Again, what Omar Fethi Bey said about being an apprentice that day, as a short-term insurance policy, is that it is not possible, of course, to get long-term insurance under our current laws, our current laws. We don't have to work on it because there are only short-term insurance premiums there. They do not receive a long-term, pension-related insurance premium that concerns general health insurance, occupational disorders and business accidents.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0086par0293	Can't an arrangement be made about this, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0085par0294	Again, in addition to that, what Erkan Aydın Bey asked about the subcontractors... is the subcontractors involved in the removal of these permits? No, it is not within the scope. I mean, it's just, outside of those subcontractors, there's a whole range of government employees. I mean, on the one hand, there are officers, contractors, employees and public staff working in different public positions. The subcontractors are not within the scope of Prime Ministerial General Assembly 2016/1. Again, in addition to this, I want to make it clear that earlier today, earlier today, in Turkey, this is about living bombs, especially in the past few years, is this an operational form, a form of action for the construction of the coup floor through the destabilisation of Turkey? When can you make this about the events before the coup? When you see a coup attempt. We saw a coup attempt on the evening of July 15th, and in this coup attempt, it was very clear that the provocation of a number of previous social events could actually be used as a reason to set the stage for the coup. It was the same way before 1980. That was before February 28th. So we have the ability to explain a lot of subtitles here for hours. It was the same way before the 1960s coup. So, this process of instability, the process of boring society, the process of driving society away from democracy as much as possible, and the process of creating a savior, unfortunately, is one of the many games that has been played on Turkey. Another question came, "Does the government have a study on this matter?" Of course, after today, the assessments of this matter must and will be presented. I mean, is there a connection to those events, or isn't there... and I think the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will investigate the cause of this coup within the framework of a research motion given by our group in the coming days. These comparisons and comparisons should also be done.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0087par0297	Joint motion.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0085par0298	Of course, that's right. Correction, joint motion. It's not just about this coup; it's one of the most important protective basins of future democracy to preserve. Again, I'd like to put it this way, especially one more question, is the suspension of some of the civil servants today in line with the law, the law and the constitutional principles? I'm trying to make it clear. Yes, all these proceedings are carried out under Article 137 (177) of State Officers' Law and Article 125. We've been asked many times in a long time, there's been some news dedicated to me in public, but I've never made such an assessment myself, so I'm making an assessment for the first time. I suppose so, sometimes it's a way of communicating as a source, which is more than we can answer to some of the questions we've made from the Great National Assembly of Turkey. Because here, from earlier on, all of our ministries have done work on the formation of the Fethullahist terrorist organization, which our National Security Council has taken in particular, to identify those who have infiltrated the state, and we have had serious preparations for them -- we have preparations now -- in this recent period of time as well. Again, I would like to point out in some way that under the 137th and 125th Articles of State Officers Act 657, we have demonstrated these actions within the framework of the necessary legal regulations and that all ministries have demonstrated these actions and that each of them has a basis. They're trying to project it in a different way, especially abroad, and we strongly deny it. So, there's been a coup in Turkey, and it's a coup, and now the power is creating its own savings. This is a step towards the adoption of the bodies that have infiltrated the state through the Fethullahist terrorist organization to preserve democracy in Turkey, to maintain the constitutional system, and to ensure the functioning of all of our institutions, including the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and to protect both our republic and our national unity and unity. There's a serious deformation. We're meeting with international agencies, we're trying to eliminate this deformation, and again, this fethullahist terrorist organization is trying to figure out this deformation at every point in Europe, especially in Brussels. This is one of the most fundamental tasks of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, not just the government. I'd like to say that we've done all our efforts in the eyes of international organisations and international media, and that we've demonstrated it, that we've informed it with the right information, that we're not separated from the constitutional process and the laws, that we're acting with the independent judiciary. Again, in addition to that, there is a recent public report on the Fethullah Gulan (Fethullah)'s pension today. Yes, the head of this terrorist organization was receiving a pension from the state of the Republic of Turkey, or rather the state of the Republic of Turkey, Social Security. Our friends studied it, and they came up with information on how to prevent it in any way, and on the evening of July 17th, around 11:00 p.m., he was paid again and continued. On top of that... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's important, one minute to...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0088par0306	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0085par0307	...a person who's out of the country and on a salary from the government has been paid every six months to go to the relevant consulate and to declare that he is there and that he lives, and that he has been paid to determine that the six months and the roll call has passed. I heard about it that night, but there's no way we can assess how it's going public today, because I'd like to point out that our friends have news here at this point. Our friends said, "We're going to cut this salary." They said, "I want to say that we agreed on the evening of July 15th that it's the right thing to do."
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0088par0308	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0089par0309	Mr. Secretary, how many people who have been convicted as members of other terrorist organizations have been paid their pensions? We also asked about them. If you could give me some information on that...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0088par0310	Are you going to answer that?
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0090par0311	If you'd like, I'd like to make the preparations clear, and I'd like to give him an answer. But they made a statement to me to apologize, and I used a statement in 2011, and I just...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0091par0312	You said it was a perception operation.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0090par0313	Sir?
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0091par0314	Just prior to the 2011 elections, Mr. President's right-wing warnings, Mr. Fethullah Gulen, a perception operation is being carried out. I can also show his video, and I can make him see...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0090par0315	I wasn't in politics before the 2011 elections, and I wasn't in active politics.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0091par0316	You were at the Democratic Party.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0090par0317	No, no, I was President of the Democratic Party in 2009, in the 2010 referendum...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0092par0318	I'll make you watch.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0093par0319	Congressman, Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0090par0320	We'll look into it, but I had nothing to do with the 2011 elections, so I wasn't doing politics in the 2011 elections.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0093par0321	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0094par0323	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0093par0324	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0095par0325	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0093par0326	I hereby submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Mr. Akçay, I believe you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0096par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, Mr. Secretary didn't answer the question our friends asked about this Fethullah terrorist organization. Let me make this a little bit more clear: 2010, at the Constitutional referendum on September 12th, Mr. Secretary also came to Manisa for this constitutional referendum. You know, at the time, the power-cam was being run as a major campaign in cooperation. And in 2011... in 2010, there was a saying by Fethullah Smiley: "Sir, let him come to the grave, let him vote." Our president said: "The people in the tomb can't vote, but come from the U.S., you must vote." In 2011, it would have to stop the activities of the capital. When it was said that many of the ministers of power and Mr. Noble were in the political column at the time, there were no unspoken words left, and all the time the Fethullah Gülen were made beautiful, and we were insulted, but are you the one who would speak to him? Our goal is not polemic. Mr. Secretary just said: "I wish I hadn't said... Now, those who claim to run the state have no right to say, "I wish I was wrong, I was wrong." So it's worth paying attention to. He doesn't remember now, but we do. Therefore, those who govern the state must carefully refrain from having political relations with them by praising such informal, illegal structures. Otherwise, that's what's already happening in this kind of organization, becoming Frankenstein.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0097par0337	Mr. Akçay, I'll give you one more minute, please complete.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0096par0338	It also causes major destruction, especially in the country and in the political structures in which it has good relations. So, on this 15th of July, it has now caused great trouble, great damage, with its final move. Now, together as all of Turkey, we have to deal with the damage in hand-to-hand with its opposition, with all the terrorist organizations and these illegal, non-democratic structures that we have to deal with very effectively. I'm reminding you of that on this occasion. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0097par0340	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0098par0341	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0097par0342	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0098par0344	Mr. President, Turkey and Parliament have suffered a great deal of pain, a great amount of trauma, as stated for several days, and we have eliminated a great danger together, but there is nothing more natural than Parliament's defence of law. There's a group of military personnel at work that are not known to have been taken into custody at the moment; there are those who say, "My son, the petty officer; there is no one among the dead, there is no one there, there is no one there, there is no one here; what are we going to do?" Some of the people in custody claim to have been in unjust custody, but here they have allegations that they have been abused, that they have been abused, that they have been arrested, that they have been tortured. It's all a bet. This is the commissions of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, such as the Human Rights Commission, and we have four parties, both creating public consciences and perhaps deforming the state of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0097par0346	I'll give you one more minute, please complete, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0098par0347	...to try to discredit it by creating it, first of all, we consider that the Republican People's Party is crucial for the Parliament's Human Rights Commission as well as for the Human Rights Commission's subcommittee, which is four other parties, to immediately step in, to satisfy its public conscience and to carry out its active control duties on behalf of parliament, and Turkey's reputation abroad and abroad. I wanted to present it.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit03spe0097par0348	Thank you. Congressmans, we will now begin the negotiations of section one. The first chapter covers the first joke of Article 28 (a), me (b) and the first joke of Article 1 to 28, including me (c). I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0097par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 403 from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. Now we're going to talk about part one. The first word on the first chapter is on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Adıyaman MP Salih Fırat. Here you are, Mr. Firat.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0099par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the International Labor Law Bill. I salute the grand jury. Before I begin my words, on the evening of July 15th, I curse the coup attempt that our nation has attempted to strike at the future of our country and that our entire nation has eliminated as one. I ask God's mercy to all our citizens and policemen who believe in democracy and are martyrs for this cause, and salute our nation for its dignity. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the liberalisation of international trade has also affected the globalization of labour markets. The countries' efforts to open their economic structures to international economic relations and to integrate into the international economy, the rise of global trade and the mobileity of production factors have made the labour market in any country depend on labour markets in other countries. This interaction with the globalisation of labour markets has created a single international labour force market for open competition in different countries in terms of capital free international mobility. In this environment, the interaction between the global labour market and the national labour market is increasing day by day. In this process, it is vital that the knowledge and experience of qualified and quality labor force be brought to our country, adding value to our national workforce. And after that, we all have an important task and responsibility here. In this sense of responsibility, especially because of this growing interaction in recent years, some new regulations have also been needed in our working life. The International Labor Law was drafted to make the most of the internationally qualified labour force directly affecting the global economy. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the most important element of economic development in today's world is manpower. The use of highly qualified, grown brain power is important in boosting competitiveness in the international medium. All countries have entered the race to attract the grown-up labor force to gain the upper hand in international competition. Only policy and strategy are developed for this. Again, they make new arrangements and bring facilitating applications to benefit from this workforce. The high-quality and skilled labour force is considered one of the most fundamental stones in economic growth, reducing production costs, increasing efficiency. Now, in this global competition that we all know about, we have brought to you this new arrangement so that we can evaluate both the quality of manpower that we have, as well as the maximum use of internationally qualified human power. Mr. President, we've taken into account, of course, the economic balances and events that have changed regionally in order to make this arrangement. While our country has been the source of immigration movements, it has become the target country for years, due to growing economic power and foreign investments in our country in recent years. In the past decade, work permit applications have increased exponentially and are still being applied for for work from 165 different countries. In this scope, a new legislation has been adopted, in accordance with national and international legislation and practices, which contributes to the determination of our country's international labour force policy, which contributes to the attracting centre of our country in terms of qualified foreign investors and qualified labor force, providing an objective approach to the employment of foreigners. While the bill was being discussed in our Commission, our opposition representatives had some suggestions. We completed our work by renegotiating our proposed MPs and considering their proposals. I think with a great deal of understanding, we'll be able to bring a new arrangement to our country and our working life. The design consists of six parts. The purpose of the law is defined in the first chapter. For the first time, the definitions of turquoise cards, independent work permit, indefinitely work permit, foreign employment, work permit exemption and legal work permit are included in this law. The second chapter determines the basic and procedures of international labour force policies. The third chapter provides the obligation to obtain a work permit before starting work for foreigners under the law as a general rule. The Fourth Division organises exceptions. The 5th Section organises administrative objections and declaration obligations against work permit decisions. Section 6 contains various provisions concerning the implementation of the law. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the end of my words, I once again curse the unity of our country, the unity of our country, our Commander-in-Chief, the initiative aimed at our Veteran Assembly, and ask God's mercy on those who have lost their lives. Mr. President, good lawmakers, every time we try to do good for our country, this evil gang, this organization, is always putting obstacles in our way. As a matter of fact, you all know, in the beginning of 2013, the Prime Minister of the period, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, brought up the solution process on the Kurdish issue, which has been in Turkey for 40 years with a conflicting process. After the solution process was put on the agenda, this gang of evils began to try to say, "What would I do to disrupt this process of solutions in Turkey?" First, in May 2013, he supported the traveling process, the launch of the trip. When he realized he couldn't get anything out of him in Turkey, he brought up the coup process on December 17th-25th. Again, we now see that most of them are members of the parallel terrorist organization, the Å organization, which is responsible for the safety of our state, our citizens, in the Southeast District of Turkey and in the Eastern District. From the 2nd Army Command, from the Bolu Commando Downloading Brigade, this evil gang, which has infiltrated all the other military forces in the area, has done provocative actions from time to time. In fact, you know, even in the massacre in Uludere, today, if we go back and examine it, it's been revealed that they did it knowingly, so that there will be no peace in the Republic of Turkey. In the process of resolving, you know, in that process, in the non-conflict environment, PKK members should have left the country, and in their efforts, what did Turkey give you to prevent it? What did Turkey give you to drop the gun? They were provoked to stay in Turkey again, to return to Turkey. Again, they allowed them to store weapons in our territory, dig holes in these. So you have to see, friends, that this organization is not really an organization that is currently being formed, the foundation of this organization began to be launched before the 1980s, and it continued after the 1980s coup. Eventually, even during the Ecevit rule period in 1999, it was discovered that they were involved in the political scene in Turkey, nested there, and infiltrated all institutions in Turkey in the form of germs. Now, it is our government's duty today to clean up the germs that are insulating all our veins in the form of sepsis. By the time our people and our nation are clear of all these germs, we will continue this intervention until the end, we will now remove them from Turkey's agenda. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0100par0032	Thank you, Mr. Firat.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0101par0033	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0100par0034	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0101par0037	Mr. President, it is the duty of all groups and oratories to try to stay away from a polemic language in the atmosphere in which we are in the process and in which the House needs to be. However, the speaker on the stand demonstrated the obligation to make a correction and make an appeal. He can, of course, make assessments of the organization, but you may not be able to call the resistance of travel... the process of travel, the events of travel. But there's one thing that appeared last Friday night: those who called the trip the journey, who called the expedition the initiative, saw how the general population behind the democracy stood, how the coup stood. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0100par0040	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0101par0041	Now, if you call it a cruise attempt, if you call it that, then you use a segregating language about the broad-based democratic line against this coup. Other than that, Mr. Hatibe, we have much to say about the Fethullah terrorist organization and this. Of course, no one in Congress today prefers a polemic language, a language of debate, but an approach that will trigger certain fault lines, touch the nerve endings, and try to turn it into an opportunity is not right. I wanted to express our sensitivity to that subject.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0100par0043	Thank you, Mr. Special. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Yakup Akkaya will speak. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0102par0050	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on the first part of the International Labor Law Bill. First of all, I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I curse the coup attempt on the night of July 15th to bring our people into chaos and start a civil war in front of you all once again. I ask God's mercy and patience for those who have sacrificed their lives in order to prevent a foolish enterprise in the process. Dear lawmakers, it is certain that sovereignty is taken from the nation unconditionally, but the basis of legitimacy is law. If you do not believe in justice and law, then the word of righteousness remains empty. Non-law-making societies are primitive societies, they're fascists, and those who want to continue on the basis of fascism will eventually disappear. Dear MPs, our people have responded to the coup attempt on the evening of July 15th and the morning of July 16th. At the Grand National Assembly, our MPs responded with a solemn stance. Of course, in the coming period, history will write about today's golden letters, those who waged that struggle, and those who lost their lives in this struggle, but in the process, what some civilians do to the official police, the servant of orders, the lamb of mothers, Mehmetchik, must be done immediately and unacceptable. In addition, it is not acceptable for a group of self-absorbed people to interfere in the lives of the people and to swear at our people and say unspeakable words in the event of democracy. It's also a sign that those who hold a democracy watch, those in that understanding, certain groups who do this, don't understand a thing about democracy. Dear lawmakers, mistakes must not be made by any other mistake. We should keep an eye out when we say we're gonna make eyebrows. For example, the decision is made in a hurry. Here's a public liquidation process. So I'll give you an example from the SEC. According to Higher Education Law 2547, the NGO has no right to resign the deans. However, the SEC has asked the deans to resign. It's a mistake, but it has made a second mistake; the SEC has issued a second generalization, which has been reported to the deans by August 5 that all personnel associated with the parallel should be processed until August 5th. You're going to ask the deans to be relieved of duty a day ago, to resign, and then a day later, you're going to ask those deans to process parallel structures at universities until August 5th. In the course of our arrival, it is clear that the negative situation in our universities stems from the implementation of the CEC. You're going to ask the dean to resign, and then you're going to ask those deans to do a procedure after this resignation, to identify officers associated with the parallel. We also monitor publicly that thousands of officers have been eliminated and tried to be eliminated under the name of parallel operations in public. Of course, the lawless must be fulfilled for those who do it. So, what is the measure of these transactions? On what criteria do officers be terminated? In three days, how has it been determined that hundreds of thousands of officers working at every level do illegal work? The information that came to us, and some of the officers that I personally know, that I have no doubt about loyalty to his country, have been put into parallel structures and suspended. These practices should not be transformed into witch hunts. Again, how have hundreds of thousands of officers been identified in three days? Remember, think of what happened at Sledgehammer and Ergenocon, where their lives were blacked out as a result of false reports, and do not forget that many officers' lives will be blacked out tomorrow for this reason. Dear lawmakers, we're talking parallel. The late Kamer Young - God rest his soul, and I remember him once again from this council bench - this will be trouble for you. This is seven years from what he said, and seven years from now, this is all we live for. I wish him mercy one more time, and I wish him heaven. Dear lawmakers, we have suffered a trauma as a society. Our emotions shouldn't get in the way of our minds, everything should be in the law. If we can't solve this country's security, politics, justice, peace and freedom, if we can't solve the problems of this country, our martyrs who have made this country our homeland, the life of this country, the soul. We claimed that you cannot rule this country. You've been running this country for 14 years, who's responsible for all this? Doesn't the landlord have anything to do with it? It's our right, of course, to expect you to answer for it. We said you didn't run this country well, and I wish we weren't right. Dear lawmakers, after this July 15th -- as we've seen in the public pictures -- we see pictures of some of the arrested military personnel being tortured where they were arrested. In the 16th year of the 21st century, the new torture, Ziverbey Mansions, should not be created. This is an embarrassment to Turkey. If a man is guilty, he's under arrest, the police arrest him, but the independent courts will punish him. For him, I wish there was no one here in history who would take this responsibility, this negative view. Which, as a union worker who lived in his 20s as the coup d'état of September 12, 1980, I would like to rephrase from here as a warning mission. Dear lawmakers, the bill we're discussing gives us a concrete fact. The fact is that it has been revealed once again by this bill, which is based on science, which prevents the development of our country from being taught by a dogma-filled education system. The continued activities of the SEC and the wrong policies of the national educational system are an obstacle to the development of our country. As long as that understanding continues, it's a dream to wait for national income to grow, to become a prosperous society. It is also a fact that the July 15 coup attempt is part of the wrong educational system and the source of the parallel structure is from this system. Dear lawmakers, although Turkey is a country with a young population, the only reason it cannot create qualified labor is the education system, I repeat. We have about 200 ▪ a university, including the state, the foundation. Unfortunately, however, the number of our universities that grow qualified architects, engineers, doctors does not exceed the number of fingers of two hands. I mean, we pride ourselves on opening up colleges with each one, but three out of every five college graduates are unemployed. We know that, but for whatever reason, we ignore it. Dear lawmakers, the total number of engineering schools in Turkey is 258 and about 40,000 graduates a year. The number of architects, engineers alone, is about 1 million. 42 per cent of these architects and engineers don't work in their field, 25 per cent are unemployed, and the rest I do whatever I do. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what is the status of vocational upper secondary schools with qualified intermediaries? Professional high school students who are trained with recycling technology, who don't understand the machines they see for the first time in factories where they go to internships, who are called interns, who are called cleaning, who are employed in photocopies, who are treated as apprentices when they graduate from vocational high school. Look at the job ads, it's full of callers, but we've got close to six million unemployed. What a contradiction! We're proud of the imam-haters, but as much as we're proud of the imam-haters, I wish we could brag about these vocational high schools here, maybe we'll be able to solve our problem. Dear lawmakers, while this bill is being discussed in the Commission, we've had a lot of discussions, and we've put up our opposition. Mr. Secretary called yesterday, and we thank him. I wish we'd done this before, but Mr. Secretary here, in his speech, we've called before, we've met, everyone knows. But we object to calling, Mr. Secretary. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's got to be like we did yesterday. Before, NGOs were coming, we were seeing each other, we were doing it, but they were just staying by what they said, so we couldn't see their contribution in the arrangements.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0103par0067	Mr. Akkaya, thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0102par0068	It's our wish, as it was yesterday... because we, the Republican People's Party, as the main opposition party, are doing our opposition duty here, but not to push it up the road, but to make the right legal arrangements. For him, we want you to know that our contribution will be in your favor. So, in this bill -- in the end, we'll see from the motions -- I'd like it to be the same in the work after that. I salute you all. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0104par0072	Thank you, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0105par0073	Mr. President, I have a request for a statement in accordance with the Civil Code 60.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0104par0074	Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0105par0077	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, we're going through a very critical and painful process, a massive trauma as a society. In particular, at such times, we said that the exit should be the criteria for democracy, peace, human rights and the legal state, and that this should be the only ground we can lean on. I regret to inform you that the planning of the next term is not being discussed in this Parliament. While we are discussing a very technical law here, in fact, the eyes of all lawmakers will be on the National Security Council meeting or at the Council of Ministers. What decision will be made regarding the coming period? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0106par0081	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0105par0083	...that you're not learning the right lessons. What we need to do now is to come together to all political parties, opposition parties and the government, and put all the differences in one place, and discuss an exit in line with the basic principles I've been talking about. Unfortunately, like I said, we can't see that. On the other hand, of course, the existing applications increase our anxiety and anxiety. Highly backward agendas, such as the execution debate, gunning, lynching images and torture images on the street, a number of illegal practices against media-reporting organizations, liquidating operations that have turned into a witch hunt in public, to the settlements of Kurds, Alevis and Syrian immigrants. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...accessing the threat of lynching increases anxiety and anxiety throughout the entire community. I remind the political authority to give up these wrongs and seek out the collective mind here as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0107par0088	Thank you. Anthalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0108par0095	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak for the National Movement Party on behalf of the International Labour Law Bill. I'd like to begin by asking God's mercy and an urgent cure for our 1,535 wounded... for 240 children who lost their lives during the brutal coup attempt. We're going through a tough time as Turkish peoples. Like a phoenix, we came out of every situation with strength. I'm sure we'll get out of this mess as soon as we can. As our leader put it, democracy has returned from the cliff. The coup attempt is the work of a handful of enemy collaborators who infiltrated the honorable Turkish army. This bastard has targeted the entire Turkish nation. I'd like to present an important matter to our esteemed citizens. In every developing event, there are certain breaking points. This is the first of the breaking points, and what's important is the point that I'm going to make in a little bit. From the very first moment of the coup attempt by our leader and leader, Mr. State Gardenian, he has been at the National Movement Party headquarters, keeping a close eye on events and developments. In those moments when the president, the Prime Minister, the ministers and other political party leaders were trying to make sense of what was going on, Mr. State Gardened Millitarian Movement Party has made important assessments and efforts for the future of its state and its nation. In those first moments when the dust got into the smoke, our leader called the Prime Minister, and we are against the attack, and the National Movement Party is at the side of state and national will in every condition. Our leader's statement gave not only the politicians but the honorable Turkish soldier and his police and our citizens the strength to stand up to confidence, courage, and coup. That's why I'm sure our history leader, State Gardener, will take this attitude in capital letters to future generations. Despite the helicopter attacks and the bombings, we held democracy that night by following our leader's instructions as MPs of the National Movement Party. We were prepared to sacrifice ourselves as the National Movement Party for your national will. On that night in history, as a single body, we made a statement to the world that the coup d'état of democracy can't be accepted. A very important point is that in this coup attempt, our people rise up against the tanks at the cost of their lives and repel the blow is a noble stance that is appreciated and congratulating. For all this opposition, we thank the Turkish nation, its power and its opposition to the Turkish parliament, the Prime Minister, all the NGOs and our media. All of this has shown us once again the importance of the parliamentary democracy we've been defending from the very beginning. As the National Party of Action states, the reinforced parliamentary system must not be abandoned. With the testimony of our leader and leader of the National Movement Party, Mr. State Gardener, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, at any cost, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not the leader of the National Movement Party. Our leader has repeatedly voiced this threat and warned the government. In fact, on March 31, 2011, our leader called on the Smiley Congregation to cease its activities in a written press release about the Laughing Congregation. Those who claimed to have been victimized today immediately after that call, if you remember, made statements targeting our leader and party. In February 2012, the former AKP minister, who entertained Mr. State Gardener's warnings about the congregation, said that he would take over the state and infiltrate the state. Even the crows laugh at them. You said, "Is he going to deal with the gardener for the person whom you then refer to as the Master of the Hoca, or even as a great person?" Let me repeat our leader's statements: maybe the crows didn't laugh, but the people are crying today. Just now, I'm very happy that the Minister said the same thing, which is a good thing. We've known him for 40 years, he's got a place over our heads. If only you had understood these warnings, which proved to be true today, before these plagues came upon us. We say: "This treacherous structure that surrounds us must be dealt with to the end, but in the meantime it must be paid attention in the name of right and law who is guilty and who is oppressed. " Those who pave the way for the lynching of Mehmetchik, who know nothing, should also answer at this time. The images of Turkish enemies, which have emerged in the turmoil we left behind, are also a scandal. The scandalous behavior of non-Turkish types has hurt our national conscience by taking advantage of the opportunity. No one should see this as a political opportunity and use it as an act of aggression against our innocent soldier, our police, and other areas. The unifying attitude that we miss is that we've been seeing a few days of talks that don't alter people, from representatives of different political views, which is a happy situation. Here, we sincerely hope that everyone, from the top to the bottom, will do the same thing that does not polarize people for the peace, happiness and peace of our country, even in different thoughts. The respected Turkish nation, proud members of its citizens, my dear citizens, have come to the trouble of giving jobs to Syrian asylum seekers, especially from refugee camps, under the name of the AKP's foreign and qualified workforce. I'm simply saying this: in our country, you can't talk to the Turkish nation about foreign-qualified labor while our citizens -- 68,000 college graduates, 700,000 high school graduates, 1.6 million high school graduates -- are unemployed. Make sure everyone knows that when a citizen of mine is unemployed, I don't even know a foreign engineer or a doctor. When my college graduate is looking for a job, tell me about foreign employees. When my 688,000 college graduates get jobs, then tell me about the foreign engineer, the foreign doctor. Do you know exactly how many people who can't be assigned medical staff, health workers? Three hundred thousand. Here, let's make the appointment of these qualified medical staff first. Until then, see how you improve the lives of the citizens of your own country who voted for you. You say, "We made a journey, we built a residence, we made a mockery of our unemployed youth." Well, what about the factory, the business? What's more, I'm afraid you've destroyed the image of the country that our country has invested in. Now in order to become competitive with this law, we must withdraw the foreign-qualified labor force. But for qualified labor, you have to plan a proper education first. In cooperation with the Ministry of National Education and the NGO in this education plan, we must make plans to give priority to the citizens of the Turkish nation, and then give priority to foreign people. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0109par0105	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0110par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to begin by reminiscing about the precious people we lost in the Suruç massacre. On July 15th, instead of a public struggle for political change, we wish immediate healing for those injured in the violent environment of military power and coup seekers, to express that we share the pain of those who have lost their loved ones. Some of us, especially those of us who have seen the coup of September 12th, have witnessed firsthand how a military junta regime has caused irreparable injuries in our lives. Those who have experienced military prison experience live in painful memories, such as the torture of welcome that no one else has ever heard of, the words such as "caffes", "kafes", "tabutluk", "sex violence" that no one knows about. For us, especially, it's these dark days that we still can't face what women are going through. More than a million people have been tagged, executed, killed hundreds of people in torture, their relatives in great pain, people waiting outside for their relatives, especially mothers teaching Turkey the struggle for human rights. We know that no blow, no government that does not represent the will of the people, will shed light on our future. In particular, we want to stress that we have had civil coups in this country for months. The authoritarian and monotheistic governance crisis, the pluralist democracy problem, the practices and the war in Kurdish provinces, have created the conditions of the coup attempt today. As long as there's a war in a country, there's always a danger of a coup. The antidote is not to become more authoritarian, but to pave the way for democracy and freedom for everyone. As long as man is not on the side of freedom, his enemies will never end, friends will never end, new enemies will grow, and that fear will continue to live on. Some of the events we witnessed after July 15th were far from giving birth to the hope of democracy, especially for us women. We've seen police officers threatening to sexually assault girls who have been arrested on a coup charge. The language and methods they used were similar to the methods of private operations, soldiers, soldiers, soldiers, and police officers who tortured women during the coup on September 12th, who shared pictures of the naked bodies of women they killed in Kurdish provinces, who dissected and exhibited women's clothing in their bedrooms, wrote sexist writings on the walls, and worked like the Turkish arm of ISIS. The only way to avoid another blow is to defeat this male dominant, militant mind, who has used every means to power it. It's too early to say we're off the hook. The social gale needs to take measures to prevent the damage caused by the coup. After the coup attempt, thousands of judges, prosecutors, academics, educators and civil servants must restore the shaken confidence that a legal and fair trial will be held for the suspects, end the pressure on the press, reassure all the peoples and sectors that this country is their country as well. It is the only way to stop the true role of the judiciary, which has lost its independence and neutrality, to end the repeated violations of human rights that have been established by international institutions, to face what has happened, to take steps for peace, to prevent the coups. Sadly, however, we now face dangerous approaches, such as labeling and putting everyone who is opposed, like the prosecutor, the coupist, and the same sack. We hear there's even been an attack on lawyers. When we say that the antidote to the coup is democracy, the bringing up of execution and individual arms is an expression that has nothing to do with democracy. Individual weapons, as you know, shoot the most women. Politics isn't about revenge, guys. Don't make politics out of revenge, but intervene because there's no way out of here that Turkey can get out. Vengeance politics has never helped anyone. Yeah, the streets are beautiful, the streets are really meaningful, especially in those streets, with their thoughts, their postures, their differences, their colourful, thousands of women. The coups of 12 March and 12 September, unfortunately, I would like to say once again that as someone who had lived in Ankara and well aware of all the pain he had caused, I would like to make a call in these days when repeated calls to the streets: Yes, as I said, the street is good, but not when you want it to come out, not when you don't know who's going to be violent to whom. The street is beautiful when freedoms live together and equal. We will never, under any circumstances, cease to claim democracy, equality, peace demands and freedoms. You thanked us on the 16th of July, the next day, when we met in Parliament. Yeah, and thank you for that. But, as we've pointed out, we've been against every blow in our lives, and we've been the most damaged of all, but now we want to thank you, too. We really want this coup attempt to be a means of lasting the transition to democracy and peace. In these days, we are truly at a crossroads for democracy. We can do this together, we can make peace with it. As one witness has just stated, there are some of the senior staff taken into mass custody following the coup attempt, who have committed mass rights violations against the Kurdish people. Their trial for war crimes is indispensable to establishing social peace. Crimes against humanity, you know, it's not a statute of limitations. I specifically demand the discovery and interrogation of the crimes committed against women, especially the suspected coup d'états and their special units under their command, as a woman, and that it be done as a woman, as a woman, as a woman, as a woman who knows what our friends, our friends are telling us, as a woman who understands their pain, as a woman who understands what they're suffering. Yeah, like I said, what we're going through right now is an opportunity for democracy. If we don't do politics with revenge, if we can get all of us to go out on the street together, I mean, when the calls are made to that street, we'd ask for forgiveness, democracy, freedom slogans instead of slogans, we could all go out together, and we could build democracy together in this country. This is, really, probably the last exit before the bridge. I say we all see this exit. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0111par0122	Thank you. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are over. Now, we'll listen to our friends speak for themselves. The first speaker will be İstanbul MP Mehmet Ali Pulcu. Here you go, Mr. Pulcu.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0112par0128	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we're a little late because we're new to the House. Of course, today, let me make a technical introduction: He has made a pledge on the first part of the International Labor Law Bill 403, and I hereby salute you. I'm happy to make this entrance because five days ago, we went against a very serious, despicable attempt with his nation, with his deputy. It's the cold talk of such a bill under this roof that gives us a lot of hope for tomorrow. If that attempt, that vile attempt had been successful, we would have been in very unpleasant circumstances today.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0113par0132	We couldn't talk.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0112par0133	So let's be here and protect the national will of all the groups that say, "I won't let my free will be violated." My hope is that this solidarity, this mutual understanding, will shed light on us for our futures. And I'm also happy that all the friends who speak about it point to it. Tomorrows -- we don't know now -- we don't know -- we're going to write this night very special, we're going to write these golden days that people have their will in gold, we're not aware of the heat. Friends, just now, at the age of 61, he's a veteran, and I'll tell you his name, we visited a lady, Mine Özer. I'm reading what you're saying on the tape: I have little children. I was willing to die so they could have a home. I didn't want those boys to die, and I'm sorry. There was a martyr there, I'm afraid I missed that chance. I voted for the President, I trusted the President, I loved him, we gave him this task to protect us, and now we need to protect him, amenna, but I'll tell you this -- the testimony of our 61-year-old Mine Özer -- if Mr. Kilicdaroglu were Prime Minister, then if such a revolution were to happen, I would still be in the square, and I would oppose that conflict. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] In one anecdote, a 28-year-old boy had two daughters. He said if I hadn't been in the square, I wouldn't have been able to face my daughters. If we went out, if we failed, I'd say, girl, I went out on the street for tomorrow, and I failed, but I did the best I could. I say now that we have gone out and saved your futures for today. I hope that we will listen to these noble acts as representatives of these citizens, that we will be able to do all kinds of criticism in the Parliament, that we will understand each other, that our worst insult will belong to each other. I often remember these anecdotes, and I wish that we could enlighten our futures by doing the work here worthy of this great nation. So I want to thank all of our friends for their contribution to the work done on the first part of this International Labor Bill. In order to remember these days, we would like to record the memories of these veterans, and we would like to do a more tidy work here in the light of these memories, and I would like to give you all a lot of respect. That's the defense of a bill like that. Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0114par0141	Thank you, Mr. Pulcu. The last person to speak for him will be Mr. Diryet Taşdemir, the Ağrı MP. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0115par0145	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I once again condemn the coup attempt that was attempted on July 15th. For those who have lost their lives, I pray for God's mercy, and for those who have been wounded, and for the speedy healing. You know, today is actually the anniversary of the Suruç massacre. A year ago, 33 young men in Suruç have gone to Kobani, where they have only their hopes, to be in solidarity with the people who live in Kobani, but unfortunately, 33 young people have been killed and hundreds have been injured by the bombings of the Islamic barbarism. Even though it's been over a year, in fact, in this case, we haven't been able to take a step forward in this massacre, and on top of that, there's been a confidentiality order on the case. In military and civilian bureaucracy, those who aided and abetted in this massacre were not, in fact, exposed by an active investigation. So perhaps if we had shown a will in the face of the massacre in Suruç, on July 20, 2015, we would have shown these arguments today, as well as the common spirit in the face of these coup attempts; perhaps we would not be talking about them here today, we would talk about democratic climate and the reforms of the democratic climate. You know, it was actually June 7th that gave the basis for this coup attempt, for this sense of impact. If we could keep the pluralist and democratic spirit of June 7th alive, if we'd kept the peace and negotiation process, we'd actually have been dealt with with by this coup d'état. This is the first time in Turkey's history that we've had this opportunity to settle on June 7th. We know that the history of Turkey is, in a sense, the history of coups. We never really found the ground, the conditions, to fight this coup d'état and mentality until June 7th. Unfortunately, those conditions were eliminated by deepening war policies, in a sense, politics and practices, as well as the basis for what happened on July 15th. At that time, we have expressed many times on this stand, and we have once again shared what happened with you in this House with our warnings, with our warnings, with our talks. I wish we hadn't been right, if only none of this had happened, and we didn't have to re-explain our right here, but unfortunately, while we were expressing it, we were lynched in the House, and we were subjected to pressure and violence during the semester. In fact, we've often been accused of expressing all these actions in the Kurdistan of this sense of impact and its mental state, and what we've expressed has been brought to our attention by our arguments. I mean, instead of the people who did this, the people who brought these practices to life, the people who did these massacres, we were accused of expressing what they did. What happened on the 15th of July was actually happening in the half of the country about a year ago. What happened in Cizre, in Cizre, in Silopi, in Turkey, in Turkey's southeastern province, in Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey, and in Turkey's southeastern Turkey, was a continuation of the events that took place on July 15th. People's homes were destroyed by tanks, dozens of people, women and children, dozens of civilians were slaughtered, curfews were declared for months, and these bans are still under way, and these massacres are still going on here. Just yesterday, two days ago, a 57 - year - old woman named Sırmi İnce died from a shooting at the police station. Sürme Edin was in front of his wife, while she was actually mowing pot, and she was murdered, murdered, and this, as in other cases, other cases, or other cases, we hope she won't remain anonymous, she'll be subject to an active investigation. If we want to deal with the coup, we have to deal not only with what happened on the night of July 15th, but actually with the process before that. Look, dozens of generals are in custody today; the judge, judge, prosecutor is in custody today, who committed the Roboski massacre, led Sur and Cizre operations, and signed dozens of political genocide operations. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, if we want to build a real democracy here, we just need to...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0116par0153	Thank you, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0115par0154	Let me finish my sentence. ...not on the July 15th coup charge, but on the previous process, it needs to be revealed and settled. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0117par0158	Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-and-answer process for 15 minutes. Seven-and-a-half minutes of this period belong to the MPs asking questions, while the other seven-and-a-half minutes belong to the Minister to give the answers. Mr. Stoneman... no. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0118par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in order to maintain peace and develop relations in Syria, your big U-turn on Israel and Russia must be carried out in a stronger way. Do you have such an initiative, such a plan as the government? Because those from Syria who come to our country are fleeing the hot war and joining the labor force here, while our children are fleeing our country because our country is not well managed. And about that, does your government have any work to do? ▪ How can we keep our children in our country? How can we prevent this brain migration? Do you study this? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0119par0164	Thank you. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0120par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, I condemn the July 15 coup attempt with violence and hatred. There's no way to avoid a violation of the law, such as a coup. When there is a need for common sense in the country, those who rule the country must never lose their ambitions. This struggle tends to turn into a witch hunt, which must be abandoned immediately. From the reports we've received, many people who have nothing to do with these operations have been removed from their posts and arrested. These information are given by who, and it's very important. Government officials say that there are still secret organizations in every institution of the state. It should not be forgotten that they will be able to surprise and report some innocent, innocent public officials. I urge the government to be sensitive about this. Do not undermine the citizens' trust in the state, then the price will be too high for our country. We invite everyone to common sense. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0121par0170	Thank you. Mr. Akkaya...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0122par0172	Minister, after the November 1st elections, AKP had promises. One, it's about subcontractors. Two: it's about promotions for pensioners. About nine months have passed over the election, but the promised subcontractor's staff has not been processed, nor has there been any adjustment to the promotion they deserve for the promised pensioners. I'd like to hear the latest on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0121par0174	Thank you. Mr. Saribal...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0123par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to share with you a matter that has just been left unfinished: The fire broke out two times in a row, ten days in a row in the village of Yazükçekke, and the fire was planned at each three points; the police report confirmed that it was sabotage. The marble furnaces are operating quickly there. The problem starts right here. In fact, when we can't defeat the peasant, can't slaughter the forest, can't overcome the barriers, create artificial disasters instead of these natural disasters, we warn the Forest Ministry of Burma, the Forest Director, through you, again; they're trying to set fire to the villages. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0124par0179	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0125par0181	Mr. Secretary, the general reason for the International Labor Law bill has been repeated over and over again, but no measurements, scientific, objective rule, nor conditions have been foreseen regarding what these are, measurements, how to control them. Your opinion of this... And 488.193 engineers, architects, city planners, members of the Chamber of Architects, and over 100,000 engineers, architects and city planners are said to be unemployed. What will this arrangement have to do with this unemployment? Do you have any precautions on that? Can foreign workers be recognized for unrecognizable rights to citizens of the country? I'd like to ask you that.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0124par0183	Mr. Peksen...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0126par0184	Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers, of course, we're going through an extraordinary process. Let me try to underline something as a lawyer who's worked so hard on these issues in the past. Mr. President, I'd like to express that I have serious concerns about age with the dry. Of course, the criminal justice system must be executed and the criminals must be tried, but in the meantime, as far as law enforcement and judicial officials can be able to prove, they need to know that if they mix the age, the true purpose will disappear and those who need to be judged can hide behind the principle of fair trial. I suggest we be thorough about this. And I expect it to be taken care of, sir.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0124par0186	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0127par0187	Yes, Mr. Secretary, as you know, we've been experiencing a lot lately. Do those who aided and are politically responsible consider resigning during these experiences? July 20th, unfortunately, about the anniversary of the Suruç massacre and the Suruç massacre, two months before the massacre, the state had listened to them, and it was clear that these suicide bombers were going to act and record them. Why was this Suruç massacre prevented even though it was recorded? A brother, you know, did the Ankara massacre there, and they were just watched. Aside from being watched, we decided to investigate these things in our great House, and you refused to investigate. Do you intend to investigate these again? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0128par0190	Thank you. Mr. Ahrazoglu...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0129par0192	Mr. Secretary, there have been arrests and detentions in many institutions and organizations as a result of the treasonous attempt on July 15th. In two or three days, so many arrests are unlikely to be made very soon. Does your government have any prior knowledge of this, or does your government have any prior work on the arrests? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0128par0194	Mr. Secretary, please come in.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0130par0195	Thank you very much. I can answer Aytug Bey's question: Of course the events around us -- as I pointed out in my speech -- have made Turkey a target country for labour market policies. Turkey is running the process within its own rules and principles, but I want to make it very clear that as Turkey grows -- Turkey is not a $3,000, $2,000 country, Turkey today is a $10,000 country -- which I think is a little bit less likely in policies that Turkey has faced, especially in its democracy and in its legal system, as well as in its international investment, as well as in its own investment, to send its own children abroad before this. Beyond that, the main purpose of this law is to bring brain migration back to Turkey. We've been over this a dozen times. Turkey will not only achieve a qualified, foreign-qualified labour force, but also companies that can come with international direct investments, a number of investments that will enable our children to work more freely here, but also provide an opportunity to meet some of the technologies there, some of the advancements with Turkey. We think this will help Turkey's multi-directional. Again, it is also important to say that we are no longer in a hurry to send people abroad as a resource. Now we have a more relaxed, more grown human resource, a more competitive human resource, and our people who are going abroad, including the foreign language, have important professional equipment in their field. On one hand, they work there, and on the other hand, they become soft force for us. I want to say that this is also important. Many of the world's most important organizations today are working for our Turkish citizens, and we are all living in that the presence of these citizens has been a serious contribution to Turkey. Mr. Akkaya will allow you to promote subcontractors and pensioners, if you donate... these things are being studied, both of them. We actually got to the point of the promotion, but maybe this week and next week, we're going to rethink it and clear it up. However, we're faced with an unfortunate delay. For him, these will be studied and carried out in the coming days. It's going to happen, but it has its own process, and we're running it. Again, we don't know anything about the forest fire in Mustafakemalpaşa and Gazipaşa village, but I'd like to say that we'll pass it on to our concerned friends. Again, as well as some of the investigations, suspensions that have been conducted today, I'd like you to rely on this: they're very meticulous about it, but do you know what moves the precious Ahrazoglu has just said, yet you're acting so quickly? No, I mean a government system; a system that operates; a system that makes mistakes, who makes mistakes, in some way, especially in this July 15th coup process, and what kind of position he's taken, and what moves he's made to eliminate the constitutional process. Many of these are already in the public eye, and the fact that the state is reactive to the events that have occurred in public, in fact, gives all of our hearts confidence that perhaps our past lives will never happen again. I'd like to express that, too. I don't think it's the right approach or the right approach, to think about having information about it earlier, to express it, or to say that there's such an assessment. It is very clear that in this law, and in the stances we face on July 15th, Turkey has its own direction, it is going in this direction, and Turkey will not give up that direction. It is not only a political party's decision that he does not give up his direction, but Turkey's own. We're not making these decisions ourselves, we're making these decisions, people are making them, we're enforcers of the people's decisions. Let's see, let's all make a wrong decision here, will the nation that's on top of the tanks put you on the street, the nation that's on top of the tanks, or the people who are walking on those guns in spite of their own death, will they leave us alone in the streets, in the election districts we've been visiting, in the NGOs we've visited? On the one hand, the constitutional system works, we check each other out, we go to the commissions, we go to the nation, and on the other hand, we try to move what they say here somehow. I'm also very happy to see that we are all opposed to understanding in Turkey, which is trying to destroy this functioning system. I'd like to say that we'll be around this time, we won't be at this time; we'll be MPs here, ministers, not ministers, but the job that will make us comfortable is to make sure that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey operates and operates freely and freely. Today, I want to make it very clear that, here, that evening, the opposition to any risk to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been a great support, a great moral, a great support to our beloved nation, who gave both Turkey and us its trust. It's a mutual, mutually-compassioned, defused coup attempt, which we know will never come again, and it's not going to last today. There was a conversation like this just now, and we can't really understand it because it's burning, so it's true. It's not just us, but it's a good example of practice that happens when we're confronted with geography and the world as well as antidemocratically, sometimes to the whole of these processes, which are given up, because there's a good word in business, and that's a good example of good practice. May God bless you for this triumph our beloved nation, our Great National Assembly of Turkey, everyone. Look, thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of thousands of people today are a major challenge from the ones who advertise in newspapers to the ones who take care of it on the streets, until they throw it away on Facebook, Facetime, Instagram. Again, thank you very much, especially for your thoughts and evaluations on chapter one. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0131par0208	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. Mr. Special, you're in the system, please.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0132par0213	Mr. President, the session will be closed shortly and Mr. Secretary will be joining the Council of Ministers, I presume. Mr. Secretary, you will go from here to the Council of Ministers. In recent times, many of our ministers have voiced their thanks to Parliament and opposition parties, and send them our regards. Remember, this Parliament, with its four groups, has fought and repelled the coup, as you have repeatedly pointed out. He is worthy of all praise, as all the preachers speak, as you emphasize in your speech. He's got a democracy medal now, Congress. The emphasis on the expression "Gazi Parliament" is another meaning, and then it becomes another meaning. Under these conditions, there are serious concerns at the meeting of the Council of Ministers today regarding an application that will weaken and weaken parliament, such as the state of emergency spoken in public. To all ministers who have joined the Council of Ministers, we would like to stress that the House does not deserve such treatment, and if such a thing is to be done -- I say it in the face, in the way it will be spoken tomorrow -- this time we would like to consider this a civilian coup to the Veterans Assembly. It'll be paradoxical. It would be a paradoxical approach to weaken the basic function of a parliament that has claimed democracy, and it would be a very serious ingratitude to all groups against the life of all groups, in a sense of simplicity. We demand that you take this matter to the Council of Ministers with our greetings, our solidarity with democracy, our full commitment, but with our faith that you will weigh the issue to this extent. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0133par0218	Thank you. Mr. Akçay, please come in.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0134par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. The Council of Ministers will meet shortly. We, the National Movement Party Group, will have a message through the Minister to the members of the Council of Ministers, to the Prime Minister. We expect some important decisions to be made at this Council of Ministers meeting. It is clear that the coup attempt on July 15th must be fought effectively with coupgers and supporters, but it is clear that the fight must be acted within law and democracy in order to be truly effective and efficient. Democracy, law, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has developed a very positive atmosphere in our country, which has been spreading waves of wills in the general theme of our nation.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0133par0224	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0134par0225	Because the whole nation, the opposition to power, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the NGOs, the media, has stood firm, with a great deal of understanding. Let's not waste it, Mr. Secretary. Our goal, of course, should not be to eat grapes, to beat the vineyard, by spreading this positive opportunity with a lot of strength. And I think it's in our best interest to hold hands together, as well as the measures that will further enhance this positive atmosphere. On the night of July 15th, we need to maintain this attitude, as we all held democracy together with his opposition. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0133par0228	Of course. Let's give it another minute, Mr. Akçay, and wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0134par0230	Mr. Secretary, the real success is going to be the one that we're going to fight in this joint stance, and the decisions that we're going to make together. Together, we have prevented a coup to the House, and I believe that by preventing this coup, there will be no zinhar from giving the House a different image of a coup. With these thoughts, I give you all our regards, and we wish the Council of Ministers the best.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0133par0232	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0135par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, the last time I made a promise, I made my point and my suggestions. But once again, we have to underline it. As a method, I would like to say that we find it absolutely wrong and unfortunate that the House today has been bypassed in the process of announcing such critical decisions about the future of our country. It was not the meeting of the National Security Council, but the Parliament representing the will of the people that was involved in the security bureaucracy. On the other hand, right now in the Council of Ministers, I did it again, without associating with the opposition. I think of the best, I do it.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0136par0239	Complete it, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0135par0240	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to say that we found it terribly wrong. And I have to say, as it appears in the public eye, that we think the greatest mistake that can be done will be repeated once again, if some of the practices that would not be appropriate for our country are back on line. We think democracy is the way out of here - democracy, democracy, democracy. Apart from that, any ground that resembles other oppressive or antidemocratic practices will be of no use, except for further resolution of the problem, increasing social tension. In particular, we find it very wrong and dangerous that the coup institutions, the National Security Council, the RDS, are still being referred to at key points of discussion today. We believe that these coup institutions should be removed as soon as possible, and that this country should be freed from the constitution of coups. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0137par0245	Thank you. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0138par0248	Mr. President, thank you. We're all against the coup. This is the democratic places, where the will of the people of Parliament is shaped; we are partners here. Democracy, justice, law, justice, that's all we have in common. The issue of how democratic systems will protect themselves against threats against them, and at times, do they have some weaknesses? The debate is spoken of from long ago. Democratic systems also try to take measures that are subject to self-preservation within the Constitution and within the framework of the law, according to the threat and the situation. Of course, these measures are necessary, when, how to use them, the conditions are involved, and politics can discuss all of this, but...
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0137par0251	Complete, please, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0138par0252	...democracy, what we call law, is not abstract concepts. Turkey is a state of law, there is democracy in Turkey, and its limits are the Constitution and the laws. If there is any work to be done outside the Constitution and the law, let us all stand together. If there is work being done within the Constitution and within the law, let's, of course, discuss it politically, speak our opinions, criticize our opinion, but let's be careful about criticism that the Constitution is outside of the law, against democracy, against freedom, against the law. The issue is to be able to bring abstract concepts to the Constitution and to the law that converts them into concrete rules. We may not be satisfied with the Constitution -- we are not all satisfied -- and we can change it together -- but this is what we have -- democracy and freedoms in a way that is appropriate. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit04spe0139par0255	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-07-20sit05spe0139par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 403 from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since there are no other jobs available on our agenda, it is Thursday (July 21st 2016) at 2:00 p.m. to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish you a good evening.
