tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 42nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to present a few issues. There was a vicious terrorist attack in Istanbul. 44 martyrs. There was a funeral in our 25 provinces. All 81 of our provinces and all of Turkey's wings have been burned, fire has fallen, and we strongly condemn it. Three parties have joint declarations, one party has also issued a declaration and a beautiful test as one heart and one voice against terrorism. President of the EC PARTI, Mr. Prime Minister Bazili Yıldırım Bey, CHP President Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroğlu and Milliyetci Movement Party have met with Mr. State Bahçeli, chairman of the ECP. As a nation, any party has made an extraordinary statement that we will be together in national interests, in integrity, in praising the state and marching beyond. We thank them. That's our job. At this point, there's no inhibition at all. This reminds me of the night of July 15th. You remember, here we are, three of the party's co-chair clerks, and I was here with you, one voice together, and we're the only voice together. There's one thing I've always said, even if the fingers are different, they're attached to the same wrist. Our DNA is the same, we love our nation, our state, our flag, our country, no one's claim to love us more than the other, it can't be and it shouldn't be. The land is the blood of all of us and the red blood on this flag, the blood of our grandfathers, our martyrs. We don't touch it, we don't touch our government, we don't touch our nation, we don't touch our integrity, we don't touch it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We remember our martyrs with mercy and gratitude. In their presence, we remember all our martyrs. Of course, martyrdom, you know, the highest rank in our faith. As Akif said to the martyrs of Çanakkale, O martyr son of martyr, do not ask me, Prophet, for he has opened his mouth to you." Top rank. May Allah be pleased with them and grant them mercy. Every life has an end. We wish patience for their families, patience for our nation, condolences for our wounded, and immediate healing for our wounded. Hopefully tomorrow, we'll visit Martyrs' Hill on behalf of Parliament as members of the Council of Parliament, and from there, we'll go to the province, the Riot Force, the hospital, and carry out our visiting mission. Since the parliamentary negotiations continue, we're gone as soon as possible. Meanwhile, we're dealing with paintings that upset all of us. A city called Aleppo is being wiped out. Aleppo, founded in the 3,000th year before Milat, is destroyed before the eyes of the world, miserable. We all see the landscapes on TV together, and unfortunately, two members of the United Nations vetoed the ceasefire. We're facing a great tragedy and we're very sorry. A trauma, a rare drama in history. There's Halep, and there's the Throne. It's called the Throne, but Aleppo's not there anymore. It's so sad. We honor that. Yes, a big game would envelop Turkey. If the 15th of July had come to pass, let's think about the 16th, it was a disaster. He protected the people of the Covenant, his people, his press, all his parties, and a stand was set in motion and prevented. As soon as 16 hours ago, Turkey returned to normal. May God be pleased with those who labor, and those who work hard. Our president has a declaration of national mobilization. Yes, we already have a one-heart stand against terror. Of course this will continue. It's a beautiful event. We're against all kinds of terrorism, against the PKK, against the DEA, against the PYD. No matter what his name is, terrorism is a crime of humanity. However, according to the Interior Charter, there are some talks at the previous meeting, but it's a very important day and we're discussing an important law, and at the end of the talks, I'm going to touch that issue after the end of the budget. Members of parliament, today we will hold final talks on the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. I want to thank all of our deputies, our bureaucrats, those who have contributed to the work so far, both in the Commission and in the General Assembly talks. I now wish our nation, our country, the best and the best of luck in 2017. We're going on the agenda. According to the programme, we begin the latest talks on the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, it has been agreed that after the decision made in the Council of General Assembly's 30/12/2016 Union, the commitment of the budget talks to the groups and the government for one hour (which can be used by more than one or more orator) will be ten minutes in favour of the Article 86 of the Civil Code and the personal talks against it. Now, I'm reading the names of the members of the group and the individuals who have been spoken for: İstanbul MP İlhan Kesici on behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group; Isparta MP Sadi Bilgiç and Çanakkale MP and Deputy Chair of the Group Mr. Bkent Turan; Ankara MP Sırrıyya Önder on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; İstanbul MP and Group Deputy Chair Mr. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Bursa MP Mr. Ismet Buyukataman and Antalya MP Mehmet Günal on behalf of the People's Party Group. On behalf of the government, President of the Justice and Development Party and Chairman of the Parliament Group, İzmir MP Prime Minister Bazili Yıldırım. On behalf of him, Mr. Ramazan Can; on behalf of Mr. Musa Çam. The first statement now belongs to İstanbul MP Ilhan Kesici on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You're on an hour.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0034	Mr. President, I stand before you to present the views of the Republican People's Party on the budget of 2017. I salute your committee. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at the beginning of my words, I wish that this budget would be a blessing for our nation, so that God may prepare and enforce better budgets. Dear lawmakers, I believe we've been through the most difficult, most difficult days in our republic's history. Around us, our neighbors, about 1,000, 1,500km of neighbors, have been doing very serious work in both the heat of war and civil war over a period of more than ten years. In the civil war, more than a million people died, some 5 million were crippled, some 10 million people were displaced from their homes, their homes, and around 4 million people defected to our country, our homeland. You have to take it very seriously, so it's one of the most serious events of the last few years. The process is not yet complete, and we find it difficult to predict in what process it will be completed. A second chapter is about the inside of us, the act of terrorism. Terror is a very horny, horny terror. It's become something far beyond anything we've ever encountered. As Mr. President has just stated, from the last incident in Istanbul, from the last time the sentence began to extend to our martyrs, to the terror of Asala, I pray for the grace of God to our martyrs; may God have mercy on us, and may the place of his sentence be paradise, and may those in authority be destroyed. A third incident, valued lawmakers, coup. So we're almost at the end of the first quarter of the 21st century, but about five months ago, on July 15th, our country was faced with a foul coup attempt, which must be taken seriously. Another incident: Two days ago, a journalist friend of ours, Hosni Mahalli Bey, began to be tried as a group of journalists. It is our belief that these trials are a separate bet, but almost a large part of them are people who can be tried without arrest, including lawmakers. That's one of the rough spots of the last few days. Even though our economy has been an economic situation that the ruling party executives, including our President, all of our government spokesman, have been balculating, even though international organisations have been describing Turkey in five of the most fragile countries in the past five years. In the last three years, this has come down from less than five, one of the three most fragile countries, and, in some cases, it has been adopted as the first. This is all serious stuff. Now, on top of that, there's the state we're in, there's the declared State of Emergency, there's the state of mobilization that Mr. President has pronounced, and we don't know what shape he's going to take. Once we've gathered all this, it's clear how serious a situation Turkey is facing. What is the result of all this? I especially want the ruling party leaders and our government to believe that there is a very severe pessimism above Turkey. This may be our friends, our friends at the ruling party, they may not be able to perceive it, they may not, but there's a very severe pessimism, there's a very heavy despair, there's a very heavy fear of the future, and there's a fear of the future. People -- may God make you believe -- that no one in a spectrum from the smallest business world, let's say a barber shop, until the biggest conglomerate, has any clarity in predicting what the next day will be like tomorrow. I'm just saying, for the record, I don't see our government getting enough of this. Anyway, when we get there, I'm going to try to give you a couple of little examples. Dear lawmakers, the budget we've been talking about for about ten or so days at the General Assembly, that's how state revenues are collected, how state expenditures are spent and so on, but I've come up with a new budget recipe that I've learned from a friend of mine, which is the provision of the Turkish nation, the provision of 80 million. So I think we need to be very sensitive about how the money here is collected and where it's spent. Now, we don't know whether or not the AK PARTY will happen to Allah or not; whether this parliamentary system will change or not, how it will be changed, it will be unknown to us yet, but God knows, this parliamentary order may be the last order of this budget. In this regard, instead of going one by one over some of the figures of this year's budget, I would like to present an economic performance from 2003 to 2016, as of October this year, as of a few months ago, in an approach that our AK PARTI executives like to say, where to? These -- they haven't spoken for the last five years -- but this was one of the many-spoken phrases -- where they had reached in the economy, where they had brought Turkey, there was no mention of it at the time, and if there had been, they would have talked about it with a Rabia-style sign -- with four legends. First of all, we made Turkey the world's 17th largest economy in economic size. Two: we doubled Turkey's national income four times, doubled its income by four. Three: Again, depending on this, we have doubled the national income per capita in Turkey to four. Four: we have reset the debt to IMF, but we have reset the debt to this IMF. At the same time, it's like we've been presented to the IMF, and we've been able to reset the external debt and so on and so forth and so forth, the public has an external debt, as if we've reset it, as if it's contained it, as if it's contained it. I'll be in touch with them in the process. I want to start with the easiest: The easiest thing is this is the 17th largest economy. Dear friends, we've all learned these economies from the same source, from the whole world, from the same source, and we've been tracking them. One of them is the World Bank, one is the IMF, one is the OECD, etc. This is more information on national income, per capita income, the growth rate of countries, that is more widely assessed in the World Bank reports. According to the 1991, 1992, 1993, according to the World Development Report of the World Development Report, the World Development Report, where Turkey, as of 1991, was known to be the world's 16th and 17th largest economy. So the AK PARTY is not yet established, the current executives of the EC PARTY are not yet known to be like this at the time, but from 1991, we are the 16th and 17th largest economies. Why have we been going on like this for, like, 20 years? There's a big difference between our next country and the country right behind us, as of their population. So someone didn't get past someone easily, so it came down to this, from 1991 to last year, but this year, we were 18th. Perhaps next year, if this year plays a little bit more -- I don't see how much it'll affect the average dry -- maybe Godulam, there's eight million population Switzerland behind us, the number of Switzerland in the last year was $697 billion, and if there's a few billion in play, Switzerland will come and pass us by; we won't wish it. Now, dear friends, there are, of course, hundreds of parameters about the evaluation of this economy, and it's not right to taste it all, and it's not right to look at it one at a time, and it's not right to approach it. So that narrows down, narrows down, narrows down, narrows down, can be explained by a single matter, the average rate of growth per year or the average rate of development per year. I think we'd be more accurate if we called it the number of departures. I'm not going to show you much about it, but -- it may not be that much to show you these kind of paintings, but I've brought you a couple of pictures, which is something that I think is right, but at least in terms of what our friends in the front rows might see, and maybe they won't be able to see our friends in the middle and back rows. One of them is a painting like this. This is the average growth rate of the entire republican era -- let me take it this way, not that it shuts me down -- as of the semesters. One of them, as it turns out, was the latest episode of AK PARTY 2003-2016 -- a little bit more than normal, and I put a point more than normal -- and every year when we added the growth of the EC PARTY, 4.6 per cent growth in 2003-2016 years was achieved. Whether this number is good or bad is less or more, we may not know enough about it yet. So if we subtract the first four years of this -- I'm going to present the reason why we took it out in another relationship -- it's the last ten years of an AK PARTI period. Why do I call myself Honey AK PARTY? Two reasons. One: This is our mastery period when our President was Prime Minister. He said that the first four years were our apprentice period. He said that the period after that was our period from 2007. He said that for that reason. Two: From that moment on, starting in 2007, the entire Turkish state from the President was almost in the hands of the EC PARTY. So President AK PARTY, Prime Minister AK PARTY, Parliament Speaker AK PARTY, the Council of Ministers behind us, the Council of Ministers AK PARTI, the majority of Parliament, almost all major city municipal mayors, etc., etc., the AK PARTY, a full-fledged honey AK PARTY period. The average growth rate of this decade is 3.3 per year. Dear lawmakers, this is a very weak growth rate. So it's a very weak growth rate, as well as the normal growth rate of Turkey, as well as the normal growth rate of the world. From the time of this 2000, the world has gained much greater growth rates than the world before 2000. There are two reasons. One: the world's half population was not nearly within the world's economic system before 2000, meaning China, India, the Soviet Union. If the population of these is now 7 billion, then 3.5 billion exists only in these countries. They integrated into the world economic system. Second: Again, things as large as the world has never seen have become major foreign capital movements, and Turkey has taken advantage of it, and Turkey has taken advantage of it. Now, one of the things that I've observed at this time -- I felt that way in the eyes of Mr. Finance Minister -- was just looking over there -- was that Turkey was very divided, or rather divided. They're more divided than physically divisive or anything like that, they've divided them up, they've differentiated them, they've increased what's available, they've alienated them, they've isolated them, they've been pushed away and so on and so on. But there wouldn't be so much division on the numbers so far. Now, even when we're talking about the exact same number, we get different things. I wanted to get your attention on that, too. Before I go into this painting, forgive me, of course, I told you the most important part. So, the average of 14 years is 4.6 percent; the average of the last decade is 3.3 percent; the average of the last five years is 3.2. This year growth began at 4.5, down to 3,3, 4,5; 4, 3,3; now 3,2; 3,2, and so on. So, what do we compare this to, a little, a lot, a good number, a big number, or a small number? For example, we can compare it to: our multiparty arrangement, 1946. From 1946 to 2002, there was a period of fifty-seven years until the EC PARTY came to power. What is there in these fifty-seven years? The negative effects of World War II continue; the 1960 conflict, the 1971 coup, the 1980 conflict; the 1974 Cypriot Peace Movement; the economic embargo that was put in Turkey; the 2001 crisis of oil in 1970; the $36 in 1980s; the 1994 crisis; the 1994 crisis, the 2001 crisis, the reason for your existence -- I'm looking at it -- the 2001 crisis in which the barrel of oil is almost the result of the variation; there are all of that; there are the parties in the United States; there are 5 in the 1980s; there are 5 in the coalitions; there are 5 in the United States; there are 5 in the United States. The average growth rate of all of these is 5.1 percent. For God's sake! (HPP) So that's how we flew it during the best times in the world. We've created four great legends in what's called 3,2, 3.3, the toughest 4.6, but the rate of growth in the entire spectrum is 5.1 percent. I'd like to make this one, another term, if you'll excuse me, a nice memory, like 1923-1938. Of course, when economies were small, the growth rate may be greater or something, but what's in it is in 1923-1938: Balkan War, Jahan War, National Fighting, Instrumental War; in ten years, Turkey lost its most valuable young people, its people, its possessions, its people; the martyrs they lost, its disabled, its wounded, its economics, its economically extinct population. It was included in the 1929-1932-1933 Great Jihan Depression. In all that time, the average rate of growth per year is 7.3 per year, 15 years in a row. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, dear lawmakers, I'm coming from here to the second great legend, which, as a national income, we've doubled the income to four, we've doubled the income to five. I wrote it on the back, it's visible from here. Anyway, there's nothing more than God, the budget, yes. I'd better show you first. That's the national income per person, a diagram. The blue here is not much for our friends who can see, but for a little bit of color, and for another purpose, it's a multinational income per person at fixed prices. And the red ones at their current rate each year... I just saw Mehmet Simsek Bey here, yes. Now, part of our friends, some of our friends on the Council of Ministers, are telling the truth after they've been discharged or relieved of duty. Mehmet Simsek Bey had something recently, for example, that he says that structural reforms have to be done to make permanent unemployment less than 10 per cent. In another relationship, they say the job savings rate has dropped to around 14 per cent, which is a very low number, that 20 per cent again need to be raised above the 20 percent. Al-Hak, that's right. But they don't say it in the line of duty, no matter what, they say it after they've been deposed or removed or something like that.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0003par0065	He says it on the job.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0004par0066	He's here, on duty.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0067	I've just made the description here that when he's on duty, if he's really on duty, but he's in charge here now. I also ask Mehmet Simsek Bey's forgiveness, and I love him, but he's in office. He has a position, Deputy Prime Minister, of course it's very powerful, but yes... now, that's the way it is. Now, let's have our friends pay attention to this distinction. Now, dear friends, if you look at these reds -- my finger doesn't close -- like 2008 -- from this point on, 2008, if we fill them all one by one -- from 2008, these red lines always look the same. Mr. President, do you see it?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0005par0069	I see it.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0070	Mr. President, sir, can you see from there?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0006par0071	I see it.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0072	That's how it's always seen from here, so 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, whatever God gave you, it's always the same number.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0007par0073	There must be some mistake.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0074	There must be some mistake. Now, that's why these bars have numbers on them, they see TVs, they're written for him to see. We've been sitting here too long, with honor. And I'd like to congratulate our friends there, our friends who live there. They didn't have their computers -- they didn't have them before -- when we sat down or anything -- but I can present these figures to our Speaker, our St. President, when they leave here or they see them coming, they want them to come, I'll give them to someone who cares. There's probably a crescent in one of these numbers, right? And then, you know, we'd be so embarrassed in these markets. Now, what does that mean? We've been in position for seven years. Yeah, well, have fear of God. At one point -- they don't pronounce it very much now -- they came up with a phrase called middle income trap. We've fallen into this middle-income trap. Here's to getting out of this... whatever kind of trap this is, if the man of courage is a medium-income trap, getting out of it, getting out of it, whatever it is. It's skating. So, what happened to the last two or three years after the skid? Let me show it to you again -- forgive -- it's starting to come down like this again, isn't it? Now that the skid is over, it's starting to come down. This means, my dear friends, that the current EC PARTY administration, its interests, our Council of Ministers, our bureaucracy is now blocked. Because that's a long time. Fourteen years seems like six and a half years of productive management all over the world. I mean, as well as another bet. That's why presidents like that don't last very long. We have completed six and a half by seven, and We have made seven. Sir, here's America, two fours, eights. Because after that, there's no more excitement, no more new spirit, no more new knowledge, no more new manners.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0008par0076	What's Germany? I mean, you're just saying what works for you. Compare it with Europe.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0077	No, no, no. Now, dear friends, these have come, come, come. Another painting, this is either the painting from the last or the last -- I'm not going to take much of your stuff -- that's another painting. The rods are down here. The reason is this is clear: this is the external trade deficit, the red external trade deficit; the blue one is the current account deficit, and the green one -- the interest payments, the numbers we pay for interest. These numbers are very big, dear friends. Let's just say, let's say it's economic bureaucracy -- let's say it's economic bureaucracy -- it's also our supply to both our economic bureaucracy and our government. Now, in all these 14 years, we may have imported $2.4 trillion, give or take. We exported $1.6 trillion, but we're interested in a $773 billion foreign trade deficit. So we used money that we didn't have in our pockets in foreign trade. $773 billion is a very large number, dear friends, my dear AK PARTY brothers, that number is a very large number, so it can't be moved. What does that mean? How much was our export? $1.6 trillion, that's close to $800 billion, so every time we export $100, we get half of that foreign trade deficit; that's a lot. So, where does that leave us? So, there's a number that led to the previous 1994 and 2001 crisis, which led to a current account deficit of $511 billion. Sure, what do we carry this with us? So, this current transaction deficit may not be very important, sir, as long as it's financed, it's something we think it might not be too much of a problem. It's financed, but with what? Debts. What did we pay the debts for? It's interest. How much does this interest cost? $433 billion. It's too big, too big. I mean, what we call it: the Rant economy, the interest lobby. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I want to compare this $433 billion to something, like one of our proudest projects, the Ataturk Dam. It cost about $2.5 billion in the years that the Ataturk Dam was built. I'm going to do a multiplication divider, whether it's around $4 billion at current dollar prices, or 4.3, that's 100 Ataturk dams, so it'll fit into that account or something. What does that mean? So we paid 100 Ataturk dams in 14 years as interest. So that's who this interest lobby is, or whoever the interest lobby co-conspirators are, that's what that means. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, our Prime Minister is a high Minister of Transport, as his high ladies call him. My specialty in the State Planning Agency was transport, telecommunications. That's why I love these transport projects. Or rather, I love these megaprojects. I mean, I enjoy these projects a lot more than a mile and a half. We have friends who have worked with us, and we have friends like that in the ranks of the National Movement Party, who are in our ranks, because there are more and more members of the AK PARTI. We have friends on the Council of Ministers that we work with in the State Planning Agency. It's a very delicious, very enjoyable thing, so it's a discussion area. Now, I'm gonna bring this to you. This is Mr. Finance Minister's copy of the budget presentation manual with a double road, a mile of the divided road, about 18,500 or so. Sir, he had money in the previous government program. That money said something like, "We spent 100 billion dollars, 18,500 kilometers of new divided roads, double roads -- how many double roads, how many divided -- but it was done." Now, I don't want to go into these numbers -- I don't want to go into the details here, but the numbers are too high, too high, God willing, there's too much. So when you divide by it, when you divide by the courses at the time, it's 2-2.5 million dollars per mile. It's too high. Let's say it is, and it could have been more than 170,000 kilometers divided or doubled, in addition to the 18,500 kilometers that we were proud of with the interest paid. (CHEERING) I'll tell you my account. I'll throw it in the water, put it in the water, throw it in the water, make it a million miles. A million miles of double road, divided road.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0009par0085	Why didn't you?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0010par0086	Why didn't you do it before?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0087	Now, wait a minute. Now, that sometimes leads to something like this...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0011par0089	What was the interest like back in the day? Tell me the old interest, tell me the old interest.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0090	Sometimes it brings to a point like this: There's a saying that has a nice Turkish, Kurdish, or rather, Kurdish, or Persian word in it. He eats with the wolf and weeps with the shivan. So there'll be a robbery, they'll raid the barn, and then, sir, you know, the shepherd there -- something else, whatever -- he'll eat what's been broken up with the wolf, and then he'll go to the Agha. Of course, the owner of the barn -- the chief, the shepherd -- he goes to the shepherd, and he says, "Oh, yeah." Now, the understanding of power and opposition of the EC PARTY is somewhat like this. They go up to one level, they become one stand, they become the power; they come down from there, they get in another chair, they become the opposition. That sounds like something I'd say. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Oh, my God, I had something else, let me speed it up a little bit. Mr. Husnu, I need you to give me a sign from there so I can tell you what I really want to say. I'll be there in five minutes, and I'll speed it up. Kur, now, he's walking away.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0012par0094	Your divided road account...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0095	Wait, I'm running out of time. I'll do it later. Now, he's getting courted, isn't he? I mean, he's almost auctioned off, right? Three-three-five... that was three-one-one today. Allahalem, I don't know what it is now. TVs become four; they become four; they become five; they don't... they went to auction. There's a section of our friends here on this Council of Ministers about the economy, there's no part of it; there's a part of it that used to exist, and now it's gone. The government has prepared this Tenth Year Plan for Development. Again, let our friends donate the mixed penny drawings on you, but what's really important here is that the Tenth Annual Development Plan covers the 2014-2018 dates. One of the most important accounts here is that one of the most significant accounts is set up. So what's the courtship going to be in the process? This is going to be our export, this is going to be our import, this is going to be our growth, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, all of them come in a knot, and that's going to be a knot, just like right now. This plan was adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on July 1, 2013 -- in the 24th term, meaning that it was adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. So let's say August corresponds to July 2018, which is 1.97, two years from now. Is that even possible? 1.97... it says this is the Tenth Annual Development Plan: the average year of 2018 is going to be 1.97. Now, how many this morning? Now, dear friends, there are sometimes excuses and excuses for our friends from the AK PARTY. I mean, December 17-25, July 15th, you know, other, international conspiracies, international stuff, Syria... but there was none of that when it was calculated, but there was a miscalculation, there was a lack of account. (CHP clapping in rows) Why? Driver's license, merit... our Mr. President puts emphasis on this merit in almost every conversation of various relations, and I think he's making a very accurate point. That's what we do in another valley, isn't it? Nisa is verse 58. There are some of our friends here at the AK PARTY who know it better than I do, and we have friends in our group who know it better than I do, and I know it's at the National Movement Party, and there's HADEP, and there's people's Democratic Party. This says:
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0013par0100	O Lord, what do you show us?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0101	Yeah. What did he say? [[Continuing the reading of the 58th verse of Nisa by the preacher]] Allah commands that... [[Continuing the reading of the 58th verse of Nisa by the preacher]] Acknowledge. What? [[Continuing the reading of the 58th verse of Nisa by the preacher]] His trust. Who? [[Continuing the reading of the 58th verse of Nisa by the preacher]] Is that a thing? Almsalablazim. Now, this is the medium-term program, the 2017-2019 Midterm Program. That was two months ago, wasn't it? Two months ago, it was fresh. It's all very clear. The medium-term program, which was set two months ago, is again looking at the next three years, four years -- the average dry year of 2018, which I'm just saying -- over the next three years. The program -- which was prepared two months ago -- the program, yes, the medium-term program -- gives the average dry year of 2018 there, let's say for August 2018, 3.30. Fear God. I mean, now that all these accounts have come in like this, is it possible that these growth speeds are going down like this, that he's been skating? So now the excitement is over, the batteries are empty, there's no mechanism to fill the batteries; that's the way to do it. In that respect, dear friends, now, our Prime Minister will be giving us an answer to all opposition spokesman in about four hours. So there's a four-hour time difference, so this is a good time. Now, he can assign both part of our friends at this time or one or two of our friends from the Council of Ministers. Ankara has five major organised industrial regions; the capital is Organised Industry; there is Anatolian Organised Industry; there is OSTIM; there is Ankara; there is Turkey and Allahulem; there is Balkans; there is Middle East; there is Site; there is Ivedik. Or by phone... these industrial sites usually have presidents, executives, parties on the right. There used to be Justice Party members, there used to be Right Passengers, there used to be ANAP people, and now they're AK PARTY people, and I know most of them, and I talk to most of them. So, the state of the economy, not with the numbers that I've given them, but with the heads of those industrial rooms, if they talk to the people in charge, there's a real economic picture. Now, dear friends, I'm happy to say all this, and... For God's sake, where did our other chips go? Mr. Husni, did we leave it there? Anyway, if we did, we did. (Laughter) Yeah, he's here. I'm not saying any of this, no word, no number, no opposition effort. Now, let me tell you something, I'm passing through. For what it's worth, the Ottoman Empire is a result of the state of the Republic of Turkey, starting with the 1800s. This is the state of the Republic of Turkey: 200 years old, from 1700, as a remedy for our defeat, for our backwardness, for our being pushed around, for a hundred years, that's the name of the ointment we can only find. Now, one of them was in the early 1800s, in the second century. Mahmoud before, of course, the 1797 Order of Cedit and the years that followed. One of the jobs that Ottoman state executives are looking for -- let's call it a government man, starting with our President -- is to establish the Assembly of Meshvereet, the Assembly of Meshvereet. So what? Meshveret Assembly. So what? The Council of Counsellors. So what? If there are other minds besides the people in charge, it's the council to take advantage of them. Now, one day, when Hazreti Ali was caliph, one of his friends asked him, "What if Ali, who's the smartest one of us?" Now, when I'm reading all these books and stuff like that, I have a habit of closing the pages of the book. God, that's an interesting question, that's a nice question, that's a nice question. How do I answer it? I thought about it, and I couldn't find it, and I didn't know if those who didn't graduate in elementary school were the smartest, the PhDs, the graduates, the Americans. The answer of the Lord Ali is: "The smartest of you is the most intelligent of all. " Isn't it beautiful? Now, I didn't see you asking, asking, consulting, for God's sake, asking, asking, asking, asking, asking any of our friends who are executives of the EC PARTY. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll tie it to this, and I'll make another bet because His Majesty Nakshibend was chatting with his students one day. One of his disciples asked: "My Sultan, who is called ignorant? " It is a good question. I closed the book again, Mr. President. Oh, my God, who's the ignorant one? Oh, this one or this one? I couldn't get out, so I opened it. His Majesty Nakshibend's answer is: 'Cahil, who doesn't ask you what you don't know.' Isn't that a good thing?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0014par0120	We're asking people.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0121	Yeah, you're the one who doesn't ask. Now, my dear friends, Mr. President, my esteemed MPs, especially my dear AK PARTY brothers, the AK PARTY MPs; and I'm happy to say this: the greatest will in the face of heavy pessimism, heavy despair, heavy future anxiety in the course of Turkey's evil course is your will. As a government, in effect, from our President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Council of Ministers, Mr. EC PARTY MPs; our will, or the will of the entire opposition, is not half as much as your will. In this regard, please, do not take this information as information, words, which have been said by opposition effort, but on top of that -- there is a little bit of an Ottoman expression that I like very much -- so let's make a new product of the information that came from there, let's make a new product of the information that came from here, let's make a conjecture. Now, Mr. President, I'd like to bring you a little bit of these anecdotes into the history of the Republic. Again, starting with our President, the President is most likely to go to the 1930s to the 2023s. Now, this goes to the 1930s with a road map. I want to draw a road map of 1930, and I want to take it. Let's call it the 1930s. This is what must be observed at number one to evaluate Turkey in the 1930s: how was the world in the 1930s? Isn't that right? For example, who were political executives, government executives? Germany, Hitler, dark Nazism; Italy, Mussolini, dark fascism; Spain, Franco; Portugal, Salazar; Soviet Union, Stalin... right? These are people who, like, kill millions and don't hesitate to kill them. As Turkey evaluates its political life, it should be evaluated in this perspective, such as the 1930s. It's an anecdote, and again, and again, this is about the staff, and I'd like to talk to you about getting the job given to the people, and I'd like to introduce you: 1931, Dolmabahçe Palace, Istanbul, Ataturk, one of the usual dinners, five or six guests. Usually the topic of that day is national education. İstanbul has yet to speak of Darulfunun... Istanbul University, university reforms, universities and so forth; National Education Minister Grand Ataturk, Tabya teacher, Mekteb-i Hariyeden, teacher of the Military School, Tabya teacher Esat Mehmet Effendi, a beautiful person, God have mercy on you, of course. Now, national education matters are being discussed. There's also a young man, 37-38, Aydın Mebusu, Turkish Januaryer also, sir, like this, alive, attacking, young man. It's a little rough on the teacher of Ataturk when they're talking about national education and all that stuff, so it sounds a little harsh on the table, the table, the table, the table, the table. The great Ataturk is too much... so it's like: "Ya, young man, Assad Bey, Assad Esat Bey -- as you know me -- he's my assistant at school, and I'm also very fond of it, my saints, my treats. It's not good for you to be so hard on my teacher in front of me. You must be tired, you've come from Ankara, you must be a little tired. Why don't you just step away from the table and get some rest? Yeah, it's reasonable, isn't it? We actually do the same kind of work at home every day. This young man is already upright, and then we'll see: "This is not just your table." He said, "God God, whose table is it?" He said, "This is God's table, and whose table is it?" He said, "What should we do, if we sit here, with our friends?" This is God's, so we get up with our friends, and I don't get up from this table, and I'll continue to sit at this table." He said, "It's cold, and we'll get up with the rest of our friends." He said, "What should we do?" It happened the next morning; and Ataturk called the chief minister, and said, "What happened to the friend of the evening?" Sir, he was here in the morning, and he sat on this chair. What did you do in the morning? He didn't have any money. What did you do? I had $30 in my pocket. Look at him, he doesn't have $30 in his pocket. I sent to Haydarpaşa Garı, and now he's going to take Haydarpaşa Garım out of our hands. By the permission of Allah, we've sent him to Ankara. The answer is, of course, it's nice, it's all around him. Look at him, he doesn't have 30 lira in his pocket. Right? Now, it really is. Two or three months later, he left the Ministry of National Education for health reasons, the Hodja of Ataturk, who was Minister of National Education. Who was brought to the Ministry of National Education? Dr. Reþit Galib, that's the man, the young man over there. Turkey's university reform is at the time of its National Education Ministry; the AK PARTI has lifted, I am Turkish, I am right, I am hardworking in elementary schools. The man who wrote it, the man who reads it - let's just say big, let's just say, the man who did it -- this is Dr. Reþit Galip. Now, dear friends, in Turkey of the 1930s, such a landscape could be seen under Turkish rule. Now, can one thousandth of this be found by our current friends, current executives? My opinion, no. Now, there's an expression that our President uses once in a while, when he's stood up like this, sometimes it goes well, and it doesn't always go well, but that's what he says. That's what I'm saying right now. Our band watches it well, so it listens well. I mean, you look like you're possessed. [[Give it up for the CHP.]] Now, my dear friends, I'm going to connect with today, and I'm going to make this talk about the Constitution. But tomorrow, we, all MPs and members of the party, are meeting in connection with the Constitutional debates. So I made that bet so we wouldn't have to talk about it before the meeting and its results came out, but I have a connected anecdote about it, and before that, for our group and especially for the other right parties, I want to express it in particular. May 14, 1950, we celebrate it as the Democratic Party's victory, which is what I call us, as people from the right. I'm one of them. May 14, 1950, where is the place to celebrate? On the morning of May 14, 1950, or on May 15, I think it's from the mansion in Chankaya, 14 years from the Prime Minister's office, 12 years from the presidency, the founding party's leadership, Ismet Pasha, who held her purse under her seat, put it on her head, and really walked down from the essah like this, a man, a Turkish dignitary who landed on foot. Is there such an event in the world? So I'm saying this for the history of democracy all over the world, whether it's one party, one party, or one party. Can you see a state in the world, not in Turkey, without bleeding a nose, without creating one incident in that general election, from one party regime to democracy, so noble, so solemn, so well delivered, so well delivered? I would also like to present to our friends who represent Turkish nationalism: this should be a gift to the Turkish nation, the Turkish state, the Turkish state, the entire world democracy.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0015par0132	Wow!
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0133	Yeah, that's right. It's not just a matter of Republican People's Party, Ismet Pasha, it's a matter of all Turkey's perceptions. The second leg of this is the Democratic Party, not if we ignore it. The Democratic Party also took that power, for the most part. After they took power, did they drop a single person who served in a single party period at the courthouse? They didn't drop it. Why? There may be similar states, there may be injuries in the state, there may be injuries in the state, but as a result, political wounds in state and political life cannot be healed by itching, bleeding, drilling. And what's he cured of? Cuddled, wrapped, ointmented, caressed. This is the great dignity of the Democratic Party. So let's get two things from here, let's combine the two points: the May 14, 1950 turnover ceremony, the ceremony, the procedure, the transition from one party to democracy is Turkey's greatest gift to the history of democracy all over the world. (HPP) We, as a Turkish nation, have great gifts and so on in Turkish history, but this is how it's supposed to be done. Now, the second point is this: will the president become a party member, a party member, or a party leader, one of the most popular points our President today has on him, the incident that has to do with him. Before 1950, 1946 and after the multiple-party regime, there is a large convention by the Republican People's Party, which is the name of the 7th Grand Assembly. How long do our current party conventions last? I don't know if one day, two days, three days, three days, three days, but one day, two days full. The 1947 Convention is an 18-day convention, with two Sundays, dating it, 16 working days, a full-time convention. There are various decisions: the opening of imam-hatip schools is after this convention, the opening of the first imam-gap schools in Turkey; the first collective permission to go on the pilgrimage is in that convention. The Prime Minister of Şemsettin Günaltay, for example, my late grandfather was one of the first to go on a pilgrimage to the Pilgrimage of 1949, God rest his soul. The establishment of the Ankara Faculty of Theology is the result of that convention; it is the result of that convention to place an elective religion course in primary schools. These, these things... Hamdullah Suphi is one of the most talkative people in that assembly. Hamdullah Suphi Godöver is a man who has been President of the Turkish January for ten or so years, and who later served as President of the Turkish January for nearly 20 years. Now, one of the jobs there... whether these are intermediaries, the information I'm going to bring to this day: isn't the president the president of the party in 1947? Ismet Pasha is both the party's president and the president. He's making a amendment of the charter: ▪ President of the People's Party, when he becomes President, he leaves the party's General Chair. (Look out, dear friends, 1947, there's no such decent democracy memocracy in the world, the single party period, the National Chief, whatever you say, he says in 1947: If he becomes President of the Party, he will leave the party's presidency if he becomes President. What will E do? Is the party going to be without the president? No, the party needs a president, deputy president. There's one more thing: if he wants to come to the party after the presidential term is over, he can, but until then, the vice president will lead the party. Who's the vice president? For three years, until 1950, after that, it was all over, Hilmi Uran, Party Secretary General Hilmi Uran. 646 delegates participated in this election, valued MPs. The vote for Hilmi Uran is 328; Allah Allah God, Ismet Pasha, the National Chief, the President of the United States, is nominated for a person; so almost 50 percent of the delegates don't vote for him, no? No one's saying anything about that either.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0016par0141	That's it, democracy.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0142	Three hundred and twenty-eight votes for Hilmi Uran; for example, Recep Peker was nominated, a candidate, or rather, 159 votes for him. This report, which is the control of the 7th Grand Assembly, is found in the library of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I bought it there, and I made it, and I'm giving it to friends I want to give it to, or if we have friends who want to buy it themselves, it'd be great if they did. When is this happening? Sixty-nine years ago, sixty-nine years ago, there were only eight or ten democratic countries in the world, and we split up the presidency with the party's president. Now we've come to the 21st century, and the first quarter is almost over; what a president is doing and what he's doing to be the party leader, isn't it? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, I would have made this bet more often, but we received a directive yesterday from Mr. President, saying, "O MPs and members of the party, we have heard and heard, we are meeting at one o'clock tomorrow to discuss these constitutional matters." And I'm gonna stop making that bet so I don't have to rape rights, or say something wrong, but I'd like to point out that it's very important, dear friends. I mean, from now on, I'm not much of a insider, but it's not elegant, it's not like that, it's not like that, it's not like that, it's not like that, it's not elegant, it's Turkish democracy. Now, I don't mean for God to have power in his heart, nor for our President to be taken away. God forbid, God forbid, there should be a warrant. Is there anyone among us who would own this presidency, the Prime Minister, the Constitution? So what I'm saying is that between us, we're in the AK PARTY, not us? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0017par0148	All of them, all of them!
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0149	Oh, I don't want to say, okay, amenna.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0018par0150	Don't tell us, we'll all take care of it.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0151	I mean, it's just something that's been introduced according to the size of our President. In this regard, the road is not yet near, and it is not all over. In that respect, I'd like to bring this to your attention. Mr. President, I think they'll give me a few more minutes and two more minutes, and I'll tell you something else. Now, my dear friends, let me tell you something else about this 1950, and he's like, "What percentage of votes did the AK PARTY get in the 2002 elections, when he produced 363 MPs, Mr. Engin?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0019par0154	367.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0155	34.3%.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0019par0156	34.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0157	In the 1950 elections of this Ismet Pasha, or in the 1950 elections of the Republican People's Party, according to Democratic Party families, what vote did he get in the election where the election was destroyed? 39.99 percent. I'll say it again: 39.9%; I threw out the other nine. What was the vote that the EC PARTY received in the election of 363 MPs? 34.3. For God's sake! A second number...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0020par0159	How many in 1977?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0160	I'll give you a second number...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0020par0161	How much did the CHP take in 1977?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0162	No, no, I'm not going in there.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0020par0163	Why? Same.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0164	I'm not coming, honey. The bench is mine. Oh, my God. So if he's from Bayburt, Mr. Shahap, I'm on the stand. [[Applause from CHP rows]] This is Mr. Shahap, Bayburt, and he's a dear friend of mine, so I like him, and I don't mean anything by it. Now, isn't 2009 just one of yesterday's elections? The municipal general Assembly votes are 38.8 per cent. By God, when you win all the municipalities in Turkey, the vote is 38.8%; the vote that Ismet Pasha received in the election was 39.9%! He's bigger than that, isn't he? I'll tell you another one: What was the vote of the AK PARTY on June 7, 2015, a year before this election? Yeah, well, I guess you guys don't like numbers, either. 40.8%. Yeah, I guess I could be saying it wrong, 40.8%.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0021par0169	What's CHP's?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0170	What is the vote that Ismet Pasha received in 1957? 41.4%.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0022par0172	Misidentification, misdetection.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0173	Now, look, this friend who says wrong, you're not Elizýg, are you? For God's sake, my good friend, I mean, would that happen?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0022par0174	What's his vote now?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0175	Now, these numbers, of course... these numbers, this is the private square of numbers, just as this is the private square of the wrestlers, this is the General Assembly of the Turkish National Assembly and the budget talks are the area of numbers. Now, our friends here know, and our Prime Minister...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0023par0177	Mr. Slasher, we'll add three minutes, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0178	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0023par0179	Please.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0180	Something happened to my foot.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0023par0181	Get well soon.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0182	Thanks, it looks like a cramp.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0023par0183	No, take a break if you want.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0184	No, no, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0023par0185	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0186	Now, I've arranged to end this with this, with another attitude, but somehow it's going to come to him during these Constitutional debates and so on and so forth, and I'm going to finish it another way. We are Democratic Party families, so my grandfather, full Democratic Party from 1946 to 1960; my father, a member of the Democratic Party's county general council from 1950 to 1960, is a member of the county legislature of the Justice Party from 1960 to 1970.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0024par0188	Who executed Menderes, and who executed him?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0189	I'm his son, and I'm mine, and I'm here.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0025par0190	You're all CHP now! CHP MP...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0002par0191	Now, we're just going to look down on this 1950, Ismet Pasha's handover, these families, the Democratic Party families -- and I see you're like that -- we're just going to say, "Did Islam go by itself?" No. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What year is it? 1950. Now? 2017. Sixty-seven years later, an entire America is pressing against one of us, Syria, Assad, isn't it? America suppresses, Europe suppresses, the whole world suppresses, does democracy pass? They killed 500,000 men; they died; and I just told you, 10 million people were left from their homeland; and four million of them came to us; and a few million went to the other neighbouring countries, and they defected, and took refuge. So it's not the kind of thing that can happen with the pressure of the world and the force of the world. A man needs dignity, a nation needs discipline, a law of state, a state discipline, so that things can happen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, Mr. President, we wish that this budget would bring good deeds to our beloved nation, and that it would be a blessing, but I hereby declare and deny that we will vote as Republican People's Party Group because we do not consider it a cure for the despair and pessimism that Turkey is involved in, as a cure for trouble. Respectfully, thank you very much, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0026par0196	Thank you very much, Mr. Kesci. Dear MPs, the first statement on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group belongs to Mr. Süzeyya Sadi Bilç. Your Honor, your time is thirty minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0027par0201	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the draft of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law and the 2015 Central Management Computation Act. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation and our precious citizens who are watching television right now. I'd like to thank all our ministers, our Plan and Budget Commission members, our deputies, our Parliamentary Chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the bureaucrats of our ministries, especially Mr. Finance Minister. On the night of December 10th, as we continue our budget talks here, we have 36 hundred and forty-four police officers who have been sent to testify as a result of a traitorous terrorist attack, and 44 of our country, including our eight civilian citizens, remember with mercy and gratitude, asking God to heal our wounded citizens. We suffered a great deal that night. A vicious attack took place on the eve of our nation's peace and quiet, and on the eve of a lamp. I curse those who attack with hate, whoever is before you and whoever is behind you. Again, there was another treacherous terrorist attack at Merasim Street, right next to us during the commission talks of the 2016 budget. On this occasion, I call upon our martyrs in the Merasim Street attack, to pray for God's mercy to our veterans, who, on the night of July 15th, stood before the terrorists with their flags, and died in terror attacks and defence. Mr. President, like the separatist terrorist organization PKK, the terrorist organization, which reached its peak in treason on the night of July 15th, is also the terrorist organization that aims at the existence and unity of the Republic of Turkey without any difference. I want these subcontractors and those who support them to know clearly that these vicious attacks, these treacherous terrorist organizations, will not be able to block the blessed path of the Republic of Turkey, our nation's gains, our efforts for prosperity and happiness. In this process, it's our duty to be more one and together than ever before, to stick together and to show our brotherhood to the enemy, as it was on the night of July 15th. We must stand united in social and national issues such as terrorism and show our collective determination to fight terrorism once again in its strongest form. By changing forms, the terrorist groups that attacked our soldiers, our police, our citizens will never succeed. Five years of terror in Syria has left its place of genocide, and millions have been left from their homes and homes. Turkey has embraced and embraced millions of brothers and sisters. Similarly today, a great drama of humanity in Aleppo, and tens of thousands of oppressed women, children, old, sick... God help them. But the Esed regime has once again viciously attacked our oppressed brothers, who were evacuated, slaughtering, wounding, hostageing the oppressed, ignoring the world, humanity. For those who have lost their lives, I pray for God's mercy and immediate healing for the wounded. The time has come and passed to call the entire world's Esed regime. Esed must know that the oppressor's wife will remove the king from his throne. Once again, Turkey continues to show the world what human policies should be, not only its word, but its implementation. Mr. President, we will continue by working and producing far more and more to move our country, which is a guarantee of great goals and high hopes, stability and trust, without being afraid of obstacles, without being afraid of difficulties. Actually, I'd like to continue with some financial figures during the EC PARTY administrations, but I'd like to talk to you about some of the figures Mr. Kesici gave in his speech. Mr. Kesici talks about four legends, which means the great economy of the 17th. Fourfold increase of national income, fourfold increase of national income per capita, resetting the IMF debt. It adds: you've created such a perception that you're resetting public external debt. We've never said that. We, hopefully, said we would be the world's 10th largest economy, never said we'd reset public external debt, but we said we'd pay IMF $22 billion. Mr. Kesci didn't say that at all. Did we pay, Mr. Slasher? We paid. I don't want to dig into the past, so I don't want to talk about the wreckage that was handed over to us. I don't want to talk about a period in which the citizens are in debt to their citizens, the Savings Development Fund, which owes 13.5 quadrillion dollars to their citizens, 4.5 quadrillion in the KEY payments, which is in debt to their citizens for housing and 21 banks, which I don't want to talk about, but right now, my good brother Atay has sent a note. For example, Atay Kudil says: December 12, 1992, ODTÜ, speaker Ilhan Kesici, inflation 50 per cent, 60 per cent -- Mr. Atay, you must have been a student there -- Mr. Kesici says that the inflation problem is difficult, even impossible to solve. Dear friends, 2015 inflation 8.8; 2016 7.5; 2017 target 6.5; 2018 target 5. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Kesici's speech is from his own website. You can find it on the website, and it publishes it on its website. Another issue has expressed costs in roads divided. So you have to look at this: what standard do you make your way? We've taken a road with 40km tunnels in 2003, Turkey is the only one, but today you look at it, and we've reached 314km of tunnels. Looking back, we entered the Bolu Tunnel from one end of the tunnel, and for thirty years at the other end of the tunnel, the light was not to be seen by this nation, but not today. Look, I'll give it to you in a minute. The road our Ministry of Transport, which has been divided since the beginning of our budget talks in the Commission, has added to its 165km divided road, my dear friends. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Kesici, viaducts, bridges... what have we done in Turkey today, 2,068, 198 kilometers? We built a bridge, a viaduct. Well, then, of course, when you give these numbers, you have to tell them your numbers. I don't know where we're going or where we're going. Now, when I look at new-term, updated data, dear friends, 636 times more domestic debt in the 1990-2000 period, 2.1 times more in October 2002-2016. In the 1990-2000 period, domestic debt costs increased by 1,853 times, while in October 2002-2016, only 2 per thousand. Now, the numbers are clear. Look, in 2000, when we came to 36 billion, 2002, 149 billion, when you compared it to 1980, it increased 2,620 times, but in 149 billion, where did we move it today? 465 billion. What's the increase? 2.1. So, what's the total interest payment on the internal debt? The amount paid in 2002 is 43 billion, 649 million, and the amount paid today is only 33 billion. This is about your quality of debt, your financing, your deadlines and interest rates. You put that aside, and you just take certain numbers, and you get in front of a citizen, and there's your usual, present-day painting. In the five elections, the holy nation stood behind the AK PARTY; in the 4th election, it ruled alone as the 1st party, and in the 1st election. Dear friends, today we are discussing the 15th budget of the EC PARTY governments. If our national income has increased from $33 billion to $2.2 trillion since 2002, our exports have increased from $33 billion to $1.2 trillion for 2017, if only $4.4 trillion for 2017, if only four quarters of the 55 quarter go to interest today, except for 2009, the total investment in this country has been increased in 51 quarters, if the inflation problem has been structurally resolved and the single-digit figures have been reduced to structurally, and our exports have increased from $33 billion to $14 billion for 2017, if we are to about $120 million for each 100 dollars, then only 11 dollars for interest today, if there is a total investment in this country, if there is 735 billion in this country, the International Tax, according to the United States, there are no more than 35 euros between us and the United States, and the United States, and the United States, if there are no more than the United States, the United States, and the United States, the United States, the United States, and the United States of the United States, the United States, the United States, and the United States, with the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, and the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, and the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, and the United States, the United States, and the United States, and the United States, and the United States, and the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, and the United States, and the United States, and the United States of the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, and the United States, and the United States, and the United States. Of course, the fact that the EC PARTI government has achieved these achievements and that our economy is resistant to global fluctuations is based on the reforms it implements regarding accountability and transparency, financial discipline, budget discipline and sustainable debt policy. So I want to talk about the reforms we've done in this part of my speech. As part of these reforms, we have issued Public Financial Management and Control Law 5018 to ensure more efficient and efficient use and support of resources. With this law, transparency and accountability have been strengthened in public financial management. In budget applications, the external control system has been strengthened by bringing unity, financial discipline, and a system-oriented sense of control. The scope of the budget law and the precise account law has been expanded. The budget law has been simplified, limited to private funding and private income. Dozens of non-budget funds have been shut down, and the number has only been reduced to five. Starting in 2006, for the first time in the history of the republic, the consolidated budget statistics of local governments began to be shared with the public. It has been regularly shared with the public, including financial statistics, social security institutions and local administrations, published only for central management. In 2010, we issued Law No. 6085 in order to establish an effective external control mechanism in line with Law 5018. The scope of the law and external control has been expanded, international control standards adopted, the control function of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been strengthened, and the quality and quantity of the reports submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been increased. As a matter of fact, a total of 216 Court reports were held this year. Another important reform implemented by our governments is Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510. With this law, the differences in legislation that meets the goal of a sustainable social security system and the norm and standard union between social security institutions have been resolved, the dissolution among different law-abiding employees has been ended, and the services of social security services have been combined under the framework of Social Security. In the financial sector, we also adopted the Banking Law, the Capital Market Law, Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Act and the Individual Retirement Law. So we've increased the efficiency of the financial markets. Other regulations that increase transparency, transparency and accountability in public administration have been the Right to Information Act, the Law on the Ethics Board of Public Officials and the Society for Public Control. Again, in the recent period, Turkey's Entity Fund, a system that will provide additional growth rates and additional employment, will satisfy the need for funding at reasonable costs of long-term strategic investments and facilitate the economic structural problems. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in order to better grasp and analyze the government's budget perspective, I think we need to understand the improvements on the global scale at the time the budget is being prepared. In the first half of the year, global economic growth, such as the expected lower growth of the US economy and slowing growth in developing countries, is expected to show a growth performance below expectations by 3.1 per cent at the end of 2016. Some low-profile risks regarding the global economic outlook continue to remain important during our time. In this scope, the interest increases of the FED (FED) are considered to be significant low-risk risks in the global markets, the fluctuations that could be caused by Britain's process of secession from the EU, the problems with the European banking system, the continuation of the Chinese economy, and the long-term recession in the global economy. Meanwhile, the results of the presidential election in the United States continue to negatively affect economic growth, such as geopolitical tensions and the threat of terrorism in our region. However, while there are low-profile risks, it is expected that growth will gain momentum in 2017, along with technical improvements in the global economy view. Despite all the problems in the world and in our region, our country has been able to perform very well for 14 years. In 14 years, the power from political and economic stability has made public financial balances resistant, and the measures that will ensure fiscal discipline have been carried out with determination. In many developed and developing countries, growth has been fluctuating, while Turkey has continued to grow 27 quarters uninterrupted, separating in a positive direction from other developing countries. Despite the limited recession in the 28th quarter, Turkey is expected to continue its growth by the end of 2016, as the value of integration in the industry and services sector gains momentum in the 29th quarter. With 3.9 per cent growth, Turkey caught in the first half of 2016, other than China and India, the developing countries grew at 2.5 times the speed. I want you to know that Turkey has achieved this growth performance despite the recession of trade partners, geopolitical tensions, and diminishing tourism revenues. Problems in the global economy, civil war in the Middle East, brief political uncertainty in the wake of June 7th elections, domestic terrorist attacks, and domestic demand continues despite our treacherous coup attempt on July 15th. In fact, domestic demand contributed 5.7 points to growth in the first half of the year. In 2017 it was estimated that our growth rate would be 4.4. Mr. President, dear friends, given that our country has performed more successfully than the European Union and OECD countries, given that the total number of unemployed in the world has increased significantly after the global economic crisis in 2008. The unemployment rate in our country is expected to be 11.2 in 2017. Here, of course, it's not right to evaluate labour markets with unemployment rates alone. We were able to speed up our employment, along with the recent increase in employment. In fact, since 2007, the turnout to the labour force has increased from 44 per cent to 52.7 per cent. The employment rate in 2015, compared to just before the global crisis, was one point less than in the 28 European Union and two points less in the eurozone, while Turkey increased 4.5 points in 2007. Turkey's employment rate, 41.5 per cent in 2005, rose to 46 per cent by the end of 2015. Thus, our country became the third country in Europe to increase its employment rate. According to the OECD employment report, Turkey will be the country that will provide the highest annual employment increase in 2016-2017. Dear lawmakers, I've been passing through the part about inflation, we've talked about them. The public finance is the basis of Turkey's economy, due to low budget deficits and debt burdens due to debt policies. Turkey has a very low budget deficit and a public debt burden compared to EU countries. In terms of Maastricht Criterians, Turkey has met those criteria, except in 2009 and 2010, during crisis years. The general state deficit, estimated at 1.6% at the end of 2016, was intended to reduce the GDP rate to less than 1.9% in 2019. The proportions are well below Maastricht Kriteria, which is 3%, and are well within the budget deficits of developed and developing countries. Similarly, the burden of debt in Turkey is very low on the global scale. The EU-defined stockpile of general management debt, 72.2% in 2002, is estimated to be about 27 per cent in 2016, while 20 per cent in 2017 will be reduced to below. In 2002, the national rate of public net debt supply of 60 per cent was reduced to 7 per cent in 2015, from 60 to 7. In this, it has been effective that the public sector's financial assets and deposits have increased more than its obligations. Based on the impact of recent movement in the wolf on debtion: As part of the debt policies imposed since 2003, Turkish lira has been weighted to debt and significantly reduced the sensitivity of debt supply to currency changes. At the end of 2002, the foreign currency was at 58.1 per cent of the share of foreign currency-related bonds in the central management debt stock, while the rate was reduced to 35.9% by the end of October 2016. If the stock structure of 2001 was being maintained, the 10% loss of Turkish lira would have caused the debt stock to increase by 4.4 per cent. However, the increase in the debt stock structure in 2015 was limited to only 1.2. According to the medium-term programme, the stockpile of general government debt expected to be 32.8 at the end of the year is expected to increase to 33.9% of the GDP. Finally, the impact of these developments on interest grants has been extremely limited due to the extension of the debt supply's maturity structure, and this framework is clear that interest allowances seen in the budget for both the year we are in and 2017 will be sufficient. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, through reforms, have also made significant improvements in competitiveness, investment environment, and institutional infrastructure. In 2017, significant funds were earmarked for basic public investments that would benefit private sector investments. Last year, investment funds increased by 30 per cent from 60 billion to 78 billion dollars for 2017. In addition, the average completion of public investments, which were 8.5 years in 2002, improved significantly to 3.7 years as of 2016. Dear friends, a total total of foreign direct investments to Turkey was only $14.8 billion between 1980 and 2002, while in the last 14 years it has increased more than 10 times to $171.4 billion. The number of foreign capital companies operating in our country exceeds 50,000. In this scope, many arrangements for boosting private sector investments, supporting production and employment, activating the incentive system, reducing the cost of processing, improving the investment climate and resolving uncertainty have been implemented recently. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as in the past years, we've devoted the most part of the budget in 2017 to education that represents our country's future and investment in human capital. In 2002, 10 billion liras were earmarked for education, while the estimated allocation of the year 2017 was 122 billion. When you look at 2002, when you think that the total budget of 2002 is 115 billion, 7 billion more than that is a number, 122 billion dollars of education. When you evaluated it in the circumstances of that day, we moved it to five and a half percent of the time today, when you didn't put a tenth of your budget into education. This is extremely important data. My dear friends, the second-largest share of the 2017 Budget Law Bill is divided into health expenses. In 2002, the total public health expenditures amounted to about 13.5 billion dollars, while in 2016 it was estimated to be 95 billion liras, and in 2017 it was estimated to increase by 17 per cent to 111 billion liras. The reforms and steps made in the field of health over the past 14 years are the developments we should be proud of on behalf of our country. The importance and resources assigned to protective and basic health care are intended for our citizens to live a healthier and longer life. As part of the second phase of the Health Transformation Programme, strategies and programmes will be applied to prevent health risks, such as obesity, diabetes and tobacco use and lack of movement. The Minister chose me as his first subject, about obesity. Not much, but our citizens who returned from hospital gates fifteen years ago would say, "Peace be with you." Today, praise be to God, it really is health. " As of 2016, 21 city hospitals are being conducted in an effort to benefit our citizens from health care in a more quality manner, in the form of public-private cooperation. The city hospitals Mersin, Isparta and Yozgat will be first served in 2017. I hereby thank Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Recep Akdağ, and Mr. Mehmet Muezzinoglu, our former Minister of Health, for his support for the city hospital in Isparta, my constituency. In the past 14 years, 304 billion dollars have been invested in transport, including public-private co-operation investments. The $193 billion of this is divided into land roads, $54 billion in railways, $30 billion in telecommunications, $23 billion in airlines and $4 billion in shipping. I'm not going to tell you these numbers, but as I said, since we've started the negotiations, we've traveled 165 kilometers today, and we've led our divided path to a total of 25,034 kilometers. And from here, I'd like to thank our Minister of Transport and their bureaucrat once again. In the time of the AK PARTI rulings, our citizens have both met and adapted to the fast train, and as a result of this adjustment, the number of passengers has reached 29 million today. The number of active airports has reached 55. The terminal capacity has increased from 55 million passengers a year to 248 million passengers, and the total number of passengers has reached 150 million in October. The third airport, which will be the world's largest airport, will transform Turkey and Istanbul to a full meeting point. The first quarter of 2018 is also aimed at opening the first phase of the project, which serves 90 million passengers. Our governments in the transport area are now known for brand projects such as Marmaray, Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, Osmangazi Bridge, Eurasian Tunnel, 3 Τ airport, Canal Istanbul. On December 20th, we will all open the Eurasia Tunnel to serve our citizens. We will open together the Eurasia Tunnel, the world's inspiration, the dream of the Sultan Abdulhamid Khan. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the development of investments and jobs, particularly structural reforms during the EC PARTI administrations, increased savings, financial support for our country's economy, pensioners, our women's fallen relatives, our veterans, our disableds, all our citizens, all our citizens, and I'd like to address them briefly. Months paid for pensioners, widows and orphans have been increased by $100. A 10 per cent social security premium cut from working pensioners has been completely removed. Those who were obliged to care for our pensioners were allowed to receive treatment abroad. The SEC pensioner law was passed, allowing workers working less than 30 days a month to be able to borrow their time without any limit. We've raised minimum wage to 1,300 liras. In the period prior to April 26, 2016, health insurance was waived from the collection of bonuses for young people under the age of 25 who failed to pay their premiums. Part-term or call workers, those who charge for the hour they work, have also been cut off from the obligation of our employees in household services for ten days and more time. Security services compensation rates have been increased by 25 per cent. The additional indicators of the police, the police, the police, and the 2,200 of our veterans have been raised to 3,000. The 1,050 liras were raised to 1,300 liras as of 2016. As of January 1, 2017, employees who were not 45 years old were automatically included in the individual pension system. The legal arrangements for our martyr relatives and veterans were made by five separate bags of legislation. Hopefully, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy is about to complete its work on the integrated law on our fallen relatives and veterans. We have allowed tradesmen and artists to be taxed in the real way, according to the simple way. In 2002, the loan amount of credit and bail co-opters was 153 million interest in 47 per cent, while in 2016 it exceeded 20 billion liras in interest of 5 per cent. A total of 1,100,000 small businesses, tradesmen and artists have benefited from this opportunity. We've provided zero interest loans for our tradesman, and so far we've had a loan of $1 billion,350 million by our 48,000 tradesmen. It has been arranged that the tradesman, which is taxed in a simple manner, should not receive income tax from his earnings for up to 8,000 lira a year. The Moving Rehni Law, which will take effect on 1 January 2017, will make an important contribution to the access of our small businesses and tradesmen's financing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, can I wrap this up in two minutes?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0028par0267	Your Honor, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0027par0268	For the first time, the income tax has been established, and as of the start date of the burden has been made available to young people who are not 29 years old, except for the income tax, which is up to 75,000 Turkish liras of their earnings during the three taxation periods. A new institution has been called an invitation for taxpayers, who have not yet been started to study taxes in order to increase voluntary compliance with the tax, or who have not been referred to the appreciation commission. The interest on the debt collected from Law 6736 to public institutions has been expunged, and the main debts have been restructured. Private consumption tax has been lifted on commercial vehicles until 30/6/2019, in order to renovate vehicles used as part of domestic taxis, taxis, services, vans and bus transport activities. The VAT in the feed and fertilizer has been removed. Loans used to finance machine and equipment investments in the manufacturing industry have been given exceptions to bank and insurance treatment tax. The application for registration and discharge of entries used in production of property used under internal processing and temporary admission regimes has been extended until the end of 2020. Profits from the operation of day care centres and day care centres have been excluded from taxes during the five taxation periods. In order to reduce transaction costs, various purchases and services have been given a stamp tax, property tax and the exception of tuition. Dear friends, we have women, we have young people, we have disabled people, but there's no time. During my speech, I tried to sum up the reforms we've made since the establishment of the EC PARTI rulings and the arrangements to increase the prosperity and happiness of our people. With an offer of amendments to our House, hopefully we'll be crowning the reforms we've made so far. I wish that one of the milestones in our country's rise to the level of mussy civilizations in 2017, our budget will bring blessings to our country and our nation, and with that feeling and thinking, I salute the General Assembly and our citizens who are watching us on the screen.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0029par0272	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0030par0273	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0029par0274	Sir, Deputy Director Erhan of the National Movement Party Group Erhan Master wants to make a statement. Here, just a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0031par0278	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Scholar, of course, there are many aspects of his speech that we disagree in, but I will not enter them. However, he's made two very gross mistakes, and I must submit him to the General Assembly's discretion. One said special funding and income implementation were limited during their time, while non-budget funds were closed during AKP times. This is wrong; this was done at the time when he was a coalition partner in the National Movement Party. But the bigger mistake was that for the first time in the history of the republic since 2006, the consolidated budget statistics of local governments began to be shared with the public. Friends, it's a big mistake to pay attention when you say the words of the history of the Republic. Financial statistics on the console of the Mahalile administrations are published from 1975. It's the statistics that the Treasury Department has begun to publish, but there's no point in using it like it's the first time. The finance department's statistics are tight, they're not being used. For example, the Ministry of Finance has its own budget, using the statistics of the Ministry of Development, which was published since 1975. Therefore, there is a very serious mistake. This, please, is the first time in the history of the Republic, so let's be a little more careful about things. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0032par0283	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0033par0284	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0032par0285	Here you are, Mr. Levent.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0033par0286	Mr. Bilic, who has just spoken to Mr. Kesici, speaking on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, has made a direct accusation, stating that in a speech he had made in ODTÜ, inflation would not fall.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0034par0287	It's on the website, sir. I told Mr. Kesici for it.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0033par0288	We'd like to speak to Mr. Ilhan about the bullying on this matter, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0035par0289	Yes, sir. Mr. Ilhan, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Sir, I'll ask you in two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0036par0295	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, Mr.Saraya Sadi is a friend of mine too, my friend. I don't think of it as such a powerful taunt. Well, in 1990, I'd be giving a lecture like that, which is fine, so it fits me, but I don't remember. It's about inflation...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0037par0297	What do we do? Mr. Atay told me.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0036par0298	No, no... I may have said something similar about inflation. That 1990s inflationist environment was a very violent inflationist environment. He, of course, doesn't have much to do with your coming to power, but I'd just like to make a little correction. I don't do this kind of thing very well, so I don't answer, I don't answer, I don't answer, I don't answer, but one small point, this is about the IMF debt: in 2002, the public debt, the state sector's external debt was $64 billion, 22 of which was for the IMF. The reason for 22 is the 2001 crisis in front of the IMF. If it hadn't been for that 2001 crisis, it probably wouldn't have happened here either. Twenty-two of them were IMF, the IMF gave us a huge loan, and it did us a great deal of good, or else Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, survived very easily. In fact, if there hadn't been an early election, I mean, not in November 2002, but in 2003, if there had been an election in 2004, the political consequences would have been very different. Now, I'll tell you this from here: So we owe the IMF $22 billion, we owe the IMF another $42 billion outside the IMF, total of 64. The public sector's current debt is 122 billion dollars. The IMF has been reset, so one section inside 64 has been reset, but the rest remains. Now he's reached 122, 64, with no IMF, without IMF, 122, doubled; one. Two: There is another pen that is invisible in these debt pens, but should be accepted as an external debt of the state, which is given to these big projects, these projects we call the mega projects, how much is in it, not much is in it, but there are treasury guarantees that we don't know very much about, or rather, there are treasury guarantees that are in return for loans. That's like $42 billion in my accounts. So what is the public's current foreign debt obligation? If we add 42 more to this 122, that's, like, 164. That's one. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Two: 60 billion dollars of privatisation has been made during this period. That privatisation was an economic value created by earlier times. If you remove it from the thing, it's an external debt that's already gone from almost zero to 122 billion dollars. It's not good, Mr. Zayya Sadi, but as a result, it's something like this. I wanted to present this information. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0038par0307	Thank you, Mr. Kesci, thank you very much. Sir, now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the second word belongs to the member of the Çanakkale MP and Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Bulent Turan. Here you go, Mr. Turan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is thirty minutes. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0039par0317	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group for the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I hope the budget law will be good for our country, our nation, our democracy, our Parliament. I would like to thank our Finance Minister and bureaucrats, the President of the Plan and Budget Commission and their members, all the supporters, the speakers, the opposition and ruling party representatives who have been here for 12 days in negotiations, on behalf of the EC PARTY Group. First of all, last week in Beşiktas, I ask God's mercy to our police and citizens who were killed by a terrorist attack by hired assassins. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are a working system that finds rational solutions to these by comparing the budget, the state's revenue resources and resources. The budget is a bill that measures the success of a ruling government, which in a sense means a vote of confidence in a government. Mr. President, dear friends, the budget is not just a technical law for us, it's not just a law; the budget is a trust for us, the budget is the essence of democracy, the budget is accountability. We view the budget not only as an element of democracy, but as a trust of the nation. We believe that a citizen who shepherdes at Kars. A banker in Istanbul has the right to this budget. He has the right to work. He has a trust. That's why we want to keep financial discipline at the highest level. We've done 14 budgets so far, we're interviewing the 15th, and I praise God for coming out of all of them. May Allah give us a share of what We have taken. Mr. President, it's a great honor to make a budget for a party, for a government, but it's an extraordinary honor to make a budget for 15 consecutive years. When we look at our recent multi-party history, we see that the Democratic Party budgeted for the Justice Party for six years and the Motherland Party for seven years. No party was allowed to budget for 15 years. So I'm very proud, very happy to be part of this movement that people are most grateful for, which allows them to budget for 15 years. May Allah grant us a provision for many years and fifteen years. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, when we looked at Turkey ahead of this 15-year budget work, we lived together at a time when inflation found 100 per cent, when more than one government changed during a legislative period, where steps that were very strategic, could not be taken, where economics, foreign policy, investments in every area went backwards. Imagine, from 1950 to 2002, in our multiparty lives, 39 governments have been established in fifty-two years. Once again, in a multi-party period of 52 years, a total of 39 governments have been formed. Even that alone is the answer to what it really means, that if the government changes every 16 months, this country can't grow beyond its vision of Edirne-Kars, it can't move forward with its problems from the past. So there were bosses in front of the people, not in front of the people, but in front of the people, and there were bureaucrats, and there were media bosses and there were businessmen, but the AK PARTI destroyed them all, and within 15 years the budget developed a political culture outside of him. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, once again, when we looked at those times, if you wanted to see if it was a mountain of garbage, if you wanted a hospital line, air pollution, bank sinking, torture news, IMF debt, human rights violations, inflation, economic crises had become a regular news story for all of us. Dear friends, when our party is 14 months old and promises to change, it is only the power of the EC PARTY that prevents these problems. When they say, "This nation has given us great support. " In fact, in these 15 years, we've had 11 elections in total -- five general elections, three local elections, two referendums, one president. Once again, we've made 11 choices in those 14 years. So, despite the 11 elections in these 14 years, we never lost, but we didn't spoil it at all. There were choices that increased our mission, and as our responsibility grew, our necks bowed to the ground, and as our vote grew, we struggled to be more firm, to pay attention to the rights of more nations. Stop gloating, we've worked harder, we've renovated more. We grew stronger and stronger, and our people said to us, "Get a job, get a sword." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valued lawmakers, why did these people support us by winning 11 elections in 15 years and polls show that we're still ahead with a huge vote, why? No one voted for our black eye - if necessary. And if we had not worked, and had not kept the trust, and had not been upright, and had not been righteous, and had not been bold, and had not fought with the probates, and had not fought with those who were appointed before, why would this people have voted against us? Mr. President, for 12 days, we've considered the budget to be very technical, we've given numbers, pages, graphs. Before I go into detail, I'd like to take a picture of the budget, if I may. See, dear friends, first of all, the main feature of the 2017 budget is our budget in 2002, which is 120 billion, 650 billion, as of today. Once again, the first budget of the AK PARTY, the budget of 120 billion, is now over 650 billion, praise be to God. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We have to remember a second sentence: in 2002, at the beginning of the fifteen years, our budget revenues, 79 billion, are now over 600 billion, eight times higher. Every 86 lira of income, which is 100 liras in 2002, goes to interest, and today only 11 euros go to interest. We've just heard Mr. Kesici with great joy. I wish every conversation was like this, more than insulting, slandering, standing up to the President, different, visionless conversations. Ben, thank you, we enjoyed listening. However, Mr. Kesici did not mention the number of interest figures in 2002. In particular, I would like to say to Mr. Kesici, as well as to the political culture he came from: "Why didn't you make more of the roads that you criticized us, to build more of those bridges? Perhaps he would tell us that there was money, but we didn't do it? This is the source of the money, dear friends. Today, only $11 is going to go to interest, dear friends. Again, when Mr. Kesci gave many examples in his speech, he said, "The OSBs are sinking, the industry is ruining." Immediately after that talk, three OSB presidents came from Kayseri, from Samaria, from Denizli. We were looking for workers. This country didn't go down, guys. There may be periodic difficulties, periods of change in the mind, as well as difficulties with the wars around us, as well as the decline of Europe's economy. But we have our budget, our inflation, our interest, our investment, we have our full control, but we're more ambitious for tomorrows, you'll see, we'll do better things. Dear friends, well, when we look at our most prominent title after this general photo of the budget, we can say with pleasure and pride: besides the AK PARTY education, next to the educator. By the time we came to power, in 2002, only 10 per cent of the education was in the budget, 20 per cent now. In the European Union, we are still 10.6 per cent; we are a government investing in two times more education than Europe. For the first time, more budgets from the national defence budget were given to national education during the EC PARTY budget. Dear friends, for many years there was a matter of tuition that was subject to different polemics and numaisms, college fees, don't get up, don't get up, there would be fights, there would be actions. It was supposed to be a left-wing fight to get the tuition out of these colleges like it was just in the hands of the left-handers. You didn't even know, so to speak, we removed it. There's no tuition, no problems with that right now. Our scholarships are increasing, our dorms are increasing, our claim to college in every province continues. Dear friends, the health issue... again, for hours, I can tell you about the old ones, the new ones, but I'd like to put together the basic photo. We're a generation that's been up in hospital lines, can't get any medication, hears about being held hostage in a hospital. We've read about it for years, we've seen it in the papers, but now, in every county, we've had hospital facilities, almost city hospitals, like hotels, and we'll have more. Our ambulance, which was 618 in 2002, today, I'm not saying 1,000, I'm not saying 2,000, I'm not saying 3,000, it's 5,000, guys. 600 ambulances in 2002, 5,000 ambulances today. Dear friends, in 2002, education and health did not exceed 20 per cent of the budget of the main topics that directly touched the person; it is now 37 per cent. Again, we have 37 percent of our education and health budget. How many in the European Union? 25%. We will proudly tell the world our claim on these matters.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0040par0340	What's the minimum wage, minimum wage? Let's look at him, compare him to the European Union.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0039par0341	Transport is a separate title, I can tell you for hours. Dear friends, everyone saw the country jump into the age of transportation. (CHP rows) You don't see it, but our citizen did. It's been 25,000 kilometers, and now we're just divided paths. The divided road, which is located in 6 provinces in 2002, is now up to 76. What more can I tell you? Bridges in transit, throat bridges, Yavuz Sultan Selim, the Marmara Bridge, especially now that we have laid the foundation of our bridge to Çanakkale on March 18th. In agriculture, in industry, in tourism, we'll all catch a lot more vision together, dear friends. So, is it just investments that touch people? Look at the national defense. Again, in 2002, we had only 24 percent domestic weapons, industry, and today our local defence industry came to 60 percent. The national attack helicopter ATAK, OKTÜRK-1, TKTÜRK-2, drones... which today, a newspaper has made headlines for a Turkish drone, which is very expensive. In fact, what he meant was that when Israel had Heron, why did he mean that Turkey had an ANA, a Bayraktar? We'll all try to make more ANKA, make more Flagtars, make more locals, make more nationals. The RICO training plane, the Storm Obsolet, our modern infantry rifle, our national ship; what shall I tell you, my dear friends? It used to be that we had almost no brand in the international sense, but today the TRT, which you're so critical of, has become a brand value in itself; its Arabic, Kurdish, English, has become a different channel in satellites in different languages. My last name is TRT World. It's become an exemplary channel all over the world, with its vision, its content, its colors, its precious friends. In 2012, Turkish Airlines was a medium-sized company, and as a company, it became an air company that flew to many parts of the world today, flying to 117 countries, flying to 298 points. There are no people who don't know Turkish Airlines, no people who don't know the TRT. Beyond that, I can think of many other institutions. I want to pass fast because we're short on time. Dear friends, how did we do this? There is a claim. We love these people, we want to do business, we have problems. That's why we're doing this. If it weren't for mental change, we wouldn't have been able to do it if we had kept what we used to be. As one of our great poets, John Kemal, said, "Man lives as long as he imagines in the world." We have taught this community to imagine. We used to have people who didn't go out of their own city, we had publications, publishing organs that didn't represent any city in the world, but today, our companies, our press, our businessmen, everyone continues to take the appropriate steps to Turkey, along with the vision of the EC PARTI. If you imagine it, it will be Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, and if you imagine it will be Çanakkale Bridge, if you imagine it will be Marmaray, the Gulf Bridge, and the construction of the great Turkey will begin again. Dear friends, we didn't come here easily; there was a time when they put our leader in prison, and there was a time when they threw a set in front of our case, and there was a time when they filed a closing suit, and there was a time when you couldn't elect the president. They said, "There was time when they came to us with different attractions and coups. But we've always said patience, patience, we've always held our backs on our nation. Like someone did, we didn't call our backs to the organization, we didn't go to Europe, we didn't complain, we didn't dig a ditch, we just walked with the nation. Praise be to God, we have met today's picture. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I'd like to say a lot, not just education, health, weapons. Look, we've established institutions that guarantee human rights and freedom again. The Human Rights and Equality Association was founded during the EC PARTI period. Human Rights Presidency was established at this time, at this time, the right to defend the children's language, broadcasting in different languages and dialects was implemented during this period, the right to give minorities their own property, foundation property, during this period, education with 4+4+4 is liberated, improvements have been made in the penal system, supervised liberalisation came to them, the penal system came to the children's special execution system, the prisons were transparent, the prisons were prevented from using in proportional force, administrative information was opened, the old names of their settlements were opened, the torture and abuses were ended, the persecution of the punishment system was imposed, and the persecution of women was imposed, a chronic process was imposed on women. Turkey faced coup mentality during the AK PARTI period because as Sheikh Edebali said, we said, "Live man so that the state can live." I don't go into institutions like AFAD, TICA, Redbear, the Yunus Emre Institute that we're incredibly proud of. Dear friends, well, while I've been talking for these 12 days, when I've been putting it out, I've been doing more special work on what our friends in the opposition have said. I've gathered my advisors. What did they say? Look, my friends, the prominent ones: One, the Palace; two, the dictator; three, the presidency; four, the truck. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Friends, this nation's home, where you call it the Palace, where this nation finds peace, you don't get angry when the land is built in the cadastro office, you don't get angry at the governorship, you don't get angry at the courthouse, you go to Europe, you go to different cities of the world, you take pictures when you're called the presidential palace, you say, oh, good. It's a middle condition, a palace. But you know why your vote doesn't go up? You may not realize that you have not been able to make 25 26 in 15 years, and you can't. Every time you say "saray," you break someone, and every time you say "smuggle," you break someone. I got the numbers: 16,000 Mukhtars ate there, had over 10,000 NGO meetings, people went to the mosque, went to the library, went to the convention, people live there. The more you insult him, the more he says, "Ya, I've gone, the gold bowl has nothing to do with what I've seen." You're a liar, then. He says. People see that, guys. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, the man you call Tayyip Erdogan, Mr. President, when he became mayor of Istanbul -- I know Istanbul well -- there's a great house on the beach, in the forest, there's a great house, there's a mansion, there's a housing for the Mayor of Metropolitan City, he didn't quit, he was president for five years, he didn't leave the neighborhood in Skopjedar. I continue: he became Prime Minister, served 12 years. Didn't your prime minister, our government have a residence, a guesthouse? But he was a tenant in an apartment building in Goatsureen for twelve years. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, our eyes are not in the palace, but our eyes are in the work, our eyes are in the rise of this country's honor, our civilization from history, our responsibility to the friend, the enemy. If the house was in trouble with the palace, wouldn't it live like a king in the mayor's office? He would have lived, my friends. So, you know why I'm saying this, look in the mirror, in the mirror. He'll come here when he's out drinking tea, he doesn't know the previous speaker, he doesn't know the next one, he's got the didictator, he's got the saray, he's got this. Come on! We're not the reason your vote didn't go up, you are. It's not the attitude of reasonable people to do the same and expect different results. You'll do the same thing, your vote will increase; it won't. Besides, in those 25 percent games, your share is very little, my friends. In the six arrows there is the memory of Mustafa Kemal, the memory of the Inönun, your history. The man says if I bleed, I vote for you. I mean, he doesn't vote for you, he votes for your history. Most of you are dating, yelling, insulting, what's in the middle? Twenty-five, not twenty-six, no! (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Those who are still coming up here are like the tape recorders of.... on December 17th, and so were the dollar boxes. Like that, you still attack us with arguments put in front of you. You were against it -- in the fingernail -- when it was in the Muslim congregation, but when it was among the traitors, you tried to be there for it. Hüsnü Mahalli was a slanderer until five or ten years ago; he was Arab, and he was evil; and when he was with Assad, you began clapping. These are wrong friends, they're not right. You didn't go to Edirne to eat liver. We know your intentions, but you don't get to be HDP's attorney. Don't make a sound, I'll tell Edirne you didn't go to eat liver again. Dear friends, the 90-year memory of the Republican People's Party is a precious souvenir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0041par0360	Yeah, talk about the budget, let alone the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0039par0361	Keep this memory, and if you don't keep this memory, keep the warning of your friends among you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0041par0362	You're not doing anything. You tell me about them.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0039par0363	Come on, you're mad at me, Mr. Nevşehir, you're mad at me, I'm sorry, but look, it's not just my criticism. Look, dear friends...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0042par0365	I think you're going to say you're confused.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0039par0366	Niğde, lots of potatoes, Niğde.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0042par0367	Niğde, right?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0039par0368	Look, your own friends are uncomfortable with this attitude. Don't do this, dear friends. I won't name names, your deputy, your MP, enough, patience, patience, patience, patience. I want a CHP just like Ataturk, not thrown around here and there. At the Adana rally, Nazlı Ilıcak, Ergenekon, such as Mehmet Altan, advocate of the sledgehammer processes, says I will not accept the names of those who fight. Who? Your people do. Neither do I. It doesn't suit you guys. You may be angry, but go make Nazlı Ilıcak a deputy, and go make Ahmet Altan a deputy no matter what, but do what you want, dear friends, but don't make it a memory of the CHP. See, another lawyer, someone close to you, says that at the Adana rally, journalists have been counted, there's been a roll call. When it is said that the people are asked to call him Ilyak the Nazi, he says, "If he is there, I am not there."
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0043par0371	What do you think about that?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0039par0372	Dursun Flower, another deputy of yours. We will continue to be Ali Tatar, Murat Özenalp, the voices of Cemkmeks, their gaze. On the front of the Republic and democracy there will be no Altan and Ilıcak. Dear friends, you're in the wrong place, look in the mirror, I say come to your senses, and take that as a friend's advice. There are dozens of other deputies like this who have a website for you, so don't do that. But your former, precious president, says: "It is very wrong to applaud Ergenekon architects." Mr. Deniz Baykal says. I'm telling you, it's wrong to applaud the Ergenekon defendants, to applaud their architects, friends, don't do this.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0044par0373	You're the architect. You're the architect.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0039par0374	Dear friends...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0044par0375	They're subcontractors, you're the main employer.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0045par0376	Don't say anything, don't say anything!
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0039par0377	The other thing is, outside the palace...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0044par0378	They're subcontractors, you're the main employer.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0045par0379	Don't say anything, don't say anything! What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0039par0380	Your allegations about the presidency have been made. In this matter of the presidency, we've seen...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0045par0381	Look at me, don't say anything.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0046par0382	Shut up!
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0039par0383	Dear friends...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0045par0384	You're the vice president of the group, aren't you ashamed? Don't look at me like that.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0046par0385	I don't say anything to anyone, but I don't listen to you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0047par0386	Sir, the esteemed MPs, we're doing just fine. Please do not interfere with the Hati. Let's keep my mind on things. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0048par0389	The junkman yells, the judge shuts up. I don't think you should shout. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Dear friends, Mr. Kesci has just made some allegations regarding the presidential system. He said: "Mr. Innu has tried to lift up the party presidency. Look, dear friends, when this sentence is said about that date, we have an answer: in your so-called democratic times there were open votes, secret elections, secret censuses. What democracy are you talking about then? We, like Mr. Kesici, would expect him to say Menderes, more than the Inönûres of his family, from a name who had served there for many years, from the memory of the Democratic Party. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, Mr. Kesici said that if there was a right to Erdogan -- God give him his life -- he wouldn't carry, would not, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't, wouldn't. I claim, Mr. Kesci, that our party is not like your party. We have 316 Recep Tayyip Erdogans. This is our trust. People are behind us, the people are behind us, because we know that Menderes and Demirel and Mr. Turkesh both Mr. Erbakan and Mr. Ozal have expressed that the presidential system is in the best interest of this country. We don't want this presidency to ourselves, folks. The presidency is not a problem for us right now. The harmony of our very loyal Prime Minister and President is an exemplary harmony to the world. That's why we don't have a problem with the presidency. We sit, we talk, we come together, we solve problems, but, as you say, in the days after us, this system is a crisis system. The president, elected by the public after the 367 crisis, is a cause of crisis when the elected president of the public is reunited. We don't want this crisis to happen, we're over this crisis. Mr. Buli Yıldırım and Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan have no chance of a crisis. But once again, the powerful Prime Minister from two different political cultures after us, the powerful President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0049par0395	You mean one man.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0048par0396	This is wrong, this is wrong, friends. Please approach this with common sense, approach it calmly. No, sir, there's blood. We wouldn't know if you got 92 votes. What's going on, guys? Where did the publicist party go? If the public wanted it, it would be everything? Where's the democracy? He owned everything, all of it, people? If the public wants the presidency, you can't open your mouth, that's all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Another lie: a hundred and forty years of parliamentary regime. Where you got it, where you got it, fellas? As the beginning of history, if we're going to take the Constitutional Movement of 1876, on paper, it's agreed. 1876 is the first time the Ottomans set foot in the parliamentary regime, but it's not much, it's closed five months later, there's no Parliament for thirty years. Where's the hundred and forty-six years? Don't fool the people anymore, fellas. Our parliamentary regime is a system that is constantly divided by coups, wars, cuts, one party. This parliamentary regime is a system that establishes a government every 16 months. We say, "Let the election be once every five years, let the government be once every five years." Work, you win, defeat Recep Erdogan, my friends. It's not an insult, it's a work. The people vote for the employee, and they vote for the one who pleases him, not the one who shouts, the one who calls, and the one who insults. So, once again, please approach the presidential system reasonably. How did you once say, "Oh, it's good to have a party after June 7th." You said, "Oh, we rocked you." Didn't HDP and CHP say that: "We rocked you." The two parties met, reasonably put the problems of this country on the table, presented an offer for a solution. We'll consider this proposal together. We'll get your contribution, we'll get your support. Of you, I'm sure, some responsible, discreet surrogates, as in the older years, need to be president for the future of this country. I'm sure they'll say yes to the motion supported by the AK PARTY, which I'm sure of you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0050par0399	Think of those of you who do not say yes. What are you going to do?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0048par0400	Dear friends, the presidential system...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0051par0401	The presidency...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0048par0402	The presidential system. After the Constitution of 1982, the soldiers will always be soldiers after us.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0052par0403	What's going on? That's the rebuttal. You said the presidential system, it came back.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0048par0404	Well, the president, the president, we have a problem...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0052par0405	No, they want to hear it. Which one?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0048par0406	...we want to do business without risk for the future of this nation, we sign under the presidential system, do you have any worries?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0052par0408	There's the rebuttal, the rebuttal. You said the presidency, it's a rebuttal.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0048par0409	And I'll tell you something else, dear friends, the Republican People's Party is deliberately contributing to this country's future. Look, if there had not been a 367 crisis, I mean, Abdullah Gul couldn't have been President, Recep Erdogan. We wouldn't have been discussing the presidency today if he hadn't brought up this claim that was so undemocratic, contrary to the genes of this country.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0053par0410	Is it the presidency or the presidency?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0048par0411	The reason for today's presidential debate is due to the 367 crisis by Mr. CHP. So, once again, the 367 crisis is the beginning of today's presidential system, thank you, Mr. CHP.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0054par0413	They call it the President of the Republic. Not the presidency. He says, he warns, he warns.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0053par0414	Is it the presidency or the president?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0048par0415	Dear friends, sir, the President is neutral. Was he objective? Iron was neutral? Which one was neutral? We'll close our eyes and make it ourselves at night. So we say, friends, let's remove the obstacles in front of this country, let's do this for a stronger country. Dear friends, another matter, every one that comes out here, tells us, "Don't celebrate, don't polarize." In the years when we founded the party, there was the Supreme Court. They used to say, "Oh, don't take that step, the balance of institutions." These are gone, and the people have taken hold of the matter, and they have a material, which they say is what we want to do, that we should not celebrate. They say, "Don't celebrate." There's no polarizing. This nation has shown that it is not polarized, that 80 million are together in the squares on the evening of July 15th, my friends. You're the one who polarized it; you're insulting, you're angry, you're always trying to humiliate us; you're the one who's talking more about the President than the budget. But dear friends say, "Whenever we want to do business, don't celebrate." I've got a questionnaire, because there's no time I can't show it now. This poll shows that there is no polarization in this country. It's not like your world, it's the world of society. I have an uncle from CHP, an uncle, a relative, relatives.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0055par0418	Mr. Turan, would you wrap it up, please?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0048par0419	We don't mind our relatives being at different parties, we don't bother, we don't get, we don't get polarized. But a brother of a deputy of yours joined the AK PARTY. They said, "Don't report, O ignorant one."
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0056par0421	Wow!
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0048par0422	Yeah. Here's another story. Someone else's brother criticised CHP. He must have taken the money and made it out of it. Friends, you're polarizing, insulting, altering. But every time it comes out, don't take a step, don't polarize it. We're not polarizing. If we had taken steps with your logic, the coefficient would have continued, and the headscarf would have continued.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0057par0424	We lifted the headscarf together.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0048par0425	The party was still closing. You took them to the Supreme Court. There's no polarization. This country is brother and sister.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0057par0427	You put them in prison.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0048par0428	Dear friends, one way or another, it's come and gone. You know, the fight between good and evil, the good and the ugly, the ruthless and the merciful, the moral and the immoral? As the poet says, time is on our side. The smoke rising from our ashes is on our side. Last stop, the final divine decree is on our side. Although the world is the enemy, the divine decree is on our side. That's why we say, whether we burn or burn, this smoke will rise with this nation's prayer. We'll build tomorrow together. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0058par0433	Please complete, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0048par0434	Mr. President, dear friends, there's a great deal of suffering in Aleppo, and you're all following. It's like the poet said: I've come and gone, Aleppo City/ I've eaten a lot of bread/ Good Aleppo City Here, we'll work harder to make the city of Aleppo lawful. For the sake of this nation's underdogs, we'll work harder. The world is greater than five. We'll keep saying it. Despite you, we will work day and night for the unity of this country, for its future, and hopefully we will budget for another 15 years. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers wish our budget of 2017 to be good, with all due respect.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0059par0440	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0060par0441	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0059par0442	Here you are, Mr. Levent.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0060par0443	Mr. President, in many parts of the speaker's speech, he also called our party's name and made accusations about a lot of things that don't actually have linings.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0059par0444	Please, come in, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0060par0447	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the speaker who just spoke, have distorted many issues.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0061par0448	It's all true.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0060par0449	Actually, it would take hours to answer each one of them, but let me start over. In his speech, he said: "Every opposition lawmakers have criticised the President."
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0061par0450	Isn't that right?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0060par0451	If you say there are 317 presidents here, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. If you say there are 317 critics. Learn to separate yourself from the President. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The president's palace is not the home of the nation, Mr. Bulent Turan, the home of the nation is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and this is the home of the nation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Turan, thanks to the parliamentary regime, you and I have become MPs, and we're here as MPs, trying to be useful to our country. So, when it suits you, for example, the night of the July 15 coup attempt, the parliamentary regime, don't forget the night you almost showered us with kisses, which was prevented by the parliamentary regime that night. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Nothing we say is a truck, but your word is a truck. When you're running numbers, you have to tell the real, real numbers. For example, what is the state of the national income? The national income has dropped 100 billion dollars in four years, from $950 billion to $850 billion; you have to say that. Two thousand dollars less per person in three years, down to 10,500 dollars, why don't you just say that? You're talking about education, the PISA results just sat on Turkey's agenda last week, we're last in the world, we're the last of the OECD countries? That's the truth, that's what you're going to tell me, that's what you're going to tell me. The students of the Republic, where they bring the study, where they carry it, you're going to tell them how you've sunk it in 14 years. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Cari is open: We've become the fourth most current country in the world. The number of unemployed: Turkey with 3 million 533,000 unemployed in the world...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0062par0461	Mr. Sky, would you please tidy up?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0060par0462	You said two minutes, one minute's barely up.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0062par0463	Two down, I'll give it to you again.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0060par0464	No, sir, it's been a minute, it's been a while.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0062par0465	No, no, that's what it sounds like to you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0060par0466	Now, I'm going to go over their summary, but here's the last person who's going to say anything about being a member of the department. Why? Bulent Turan made a statement a few years ago. We, Fetullah Gulen, be judged. When we said, "This is a criminal organization," he called a press conference and thanked the Fetullahists for the rescue of the AK PART.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0063par0467	Come on, Mr. Levent!
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0060par0468	Look, they're trying to put us on trial. Fetullah Gülen has been dismissed as the leader of the criminal organization because of the change made by the AKP. Did you or didn't you, did you or didn't you?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0063par0469	I did.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0060par0470	You did, didn't you? In other words, it is he who confessed that Fetullah Gulen had been saved from becoming a leader of an organization. I'm complaining to all of you. My respects.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0064par0473	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0065par0474	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0066par0475	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0064par0476	Here they are, Mr. Free.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0066par0477	Mr. President, our member of the group has responded to our group's abuses in the amount of time. However, Mr. Group Deputy President Bkent Turan also called upon the name of Mr. Hanici, who used the deadline on behalf of our group, and made accusations that would give him a personal right to answer. If you'll excuse me, he'll have his right to answer for himself.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0067par0478	What did I say, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0064par0479	Two minutes, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0066par0481	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0068par0482	But he didn't say anything bad. He said something about Menderes. As a member of the Democratic Party, he always spoke of Inönul. I've thought about it. I've thought about it. I don't know if it's from the wrong party.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0064par0483	Sir, let's not waste time. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0069par0486	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to thank you very much for the beautiful words that Bulent Turan Bey said about me. I'm not familiar with the part where you pick on me or not. I mean, he wasn't too much of a tease.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0070par0487	I didn't, they're so touchy.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0069par0488	It's just a concession to him, perhaps to this affair -- thank you to Free Bey -- a compromise. Interest: Now, this interest is available every period. I mean, wasn't there one before us or something? Of course, interest is available all the time. They've got their reputations, they've got their numbers. So before you -- let me exclude the last three coalition, which I'm going to include later in 1999-2002. 1975-1999, 24 years from now, the government's interest is $127 billion, which is $127 billion in twenty-four years. Now, the $433 billion you've paid in 14 years. It's too much. So, if we divide by year -- the size of the economies is different, but let's just say between 1975 and 2000, the average interest is 5.2 billion dollars per year, $31 billion during the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0071par0490	What's the rate, sir? What's the budget rate?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0072par0491	Is it the same amount of debt? I mean, unless he paid too much interest for the same money.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0069par0492	There's one factor that always makes you look good, makes you look bad before, the 2001 crisis. I mean, if there wasn't a certain period of time in 2001, there wouldn't be an AK PARTY anyway, so it wouldn't be at this level.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0073par0493	It's an important factor.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0069par0494	Now, just so we're clear, in four years at that time, 1999-2002, the interest paid during the tripartite coalition was $125 billion, a lot.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0074par0496	Mr. Kesci, can you wrap it up, please?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0075par0497	Is it the same amount of debt?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0069par0498	So I add it up with this, two of them, all of them -- let's call it the old term -- the average annual interest rate of the last 27 years before you is $9 billion, the average annual interest rate of your time is $31 billion.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0076par0499	Sir, what was the rate on the budget?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0069par0500	I'm offering information. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0077par0503	Thank you, Mr. Kesci.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0078par0504	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0077par0505	Mr. Bulent, there's a request before you. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0079par0509	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Bulent Turan told me in his speech from the stand that if we were to believe Mr. Bulent Turan
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0080par0511	More or less.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0079par0512	...because the patients were given water from the pump and we believe Recep Tayyip Erdogan took over from Ismet Pasha.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0081par0513	But he was on the tanker, Mr. Special. The municipalities were handing out tankers.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0079par0514	And then he says, "Sir, if you make a sound, you'll be a scraper." I'll stay quiet, I'll be a jeweler. Of course, the jewelers are all of us, but the Republican People's Party is a representative of all trade groups, such as the AKP, not only of the jewelers and the Rant environments, but of the scrapists and the ancients.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0082par0515	You're insulting the jewelers.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0079par0516	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0083par0518	You're the one looking up at people. You weren't letting people into Ankara.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0084par0519	Thank you. Mr. Turan, you made a promise.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0085par0521	Mr. President, for the record, I'm not going on the stand.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0086par0522	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0084par0523	I'm sorry, have you been here before?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0086par0524	I don't know, I was in the system.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0084par0525	Wait a minute, let's stay in line. Erhan Bey, I didn't see it on the screen. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0087par0529	Thank you, Mr. President. During their talks, 2001 passed, the 2001 crisis. Now, to look at it this way, Mr. President, in April 1999, a new government came in and issued the Banking Law in June. I mean, that government couldn't have broken it in two months. Turkey had a serious need, and in June he passed the Banking Law, making a radical change. In August, he issued the Social Security Act. I mean, for years there was a Turkey where 38-year-old women and 40-year-old men retired. He was made to change Turkey. A program has been implemented, a very powerful program has been implemented. Of course, Turkey's problems were so big that in 2000, an economy that grew by 6 percent, in 2001, it would be called a road accident, even a public administration accident, not an economic crisis. Now, after that, all of Turkey's problems in the past were cleared, so in those days, friends... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can you give me one more minute, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0088par0534	Pack it up, please. You've known for a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0087par0535	Thank you. So you have to look at the interest payments there as cleaning up all the savings past, or it wasn't from a year in there. When you clean up all the troubles of the past, public banks, private banks, all of them, the state is taking action to clean up their troubles, treasure, and of course, there's an interest charge. But the future is still being built during that period of government. So later, the foundations of the strong performance after 2002 -- until 2007, and then, unfortunately, that unsustainable performance -- are again laid at that time. You need to take a closer look at that period, look at it more analytically, and you shouldn't be unfair. I wanted to express it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0089par0538	Thank you, Master. Mr. Bulent Turan, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0090par0541	Mr. President, dear friends, I don't want to go on the stand and extend it, but Mr. Levent saved Mr. Fetullah Gülen. He made a statement of style and so on. The year 2004, with the support of many parties here, passed a law, changed the penal code. Fetullah Gulen and many different defendants have been dismissed. That's what I'm saying. Well, then I'm still in the youth zone, not the deputy, etcetera. So I don't think it's right to say things like that. On the other hand, I'm not going to respond to the allegations that Free Special Master has made. Our people already know what's what. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0091par0545	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0092par0548	Mr. President, when Mr. Bulent Turan speaks, the confessions will begin to follow. A full point shot has been made in the statement made by Bkent Turan, Mr. Bulent Turan and his valued AKP MPs; at a press conference, Mr. Bkent Turan, the definition of terror in 2006 was conditioned with algebra and violence, and the acquittal of Fetullah Hoxha from that particular case. I'm guessing that anyone who looks at the matter with common sense will see who the ulterior motives are. He owns Fetullah Hoxha...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0093par0549	Not at all, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0092par0550	...and let Mr. Fetullah be judged. That's where we came in today.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0093par0552	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0094par0553	Yes, Mr. Bulent...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0093par0554	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0094par0555	Let's turn on the mike, please.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0093par0556	That won't be necessary, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0094par0557	No, to be heard.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0095par0558	Did you or didn't you, Bulent Turan? Did you or didn't you? Look, we're telling you. The AKP is that day, and so is today.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0096par0559	How are you holding up? You guys take a look at yourselves, see how you're doing.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0094par0560	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0097par0561	Mr. President, let's discuss it until morning. I'm comfortable. But once again, in 2006 or 2004 -- I don't have my file -- the law has changed, the TCK law has changed.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0098par0562	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0097par0563	That's what I'm saying. The law that's changed is these, these, these, they fell off.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0098par0564	Do you also sing Fetullah Hodja? We also saved Fetullah Hodja. You say?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0099par0565	We saved him. Do you brag or don't you?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0097par0566	So at one point, I am not a substitute; two, it is not about Smiley, it is about the TCK change, and the definition of terror at the time added to the phrase "scene" and "violence." That's what I'm saying. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0100par0568	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0101par0569	Or demagogy, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0100par0570	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0102par0571	Mr. Levent...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0100par0572	Sir, look, I've got the reports, the reports don't lie.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0103par0573	Mr. Levent, it's a shame! Are we lying?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0102par0574	Sir, your statement is on the record, and so is the gentleman's.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0100par0575	Excuse me for one sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0102par0576	Please come in.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0100par0577	Now, the AKP has a habit.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0104par0578	After 17-25, you defended him!
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0100par0579	They're defending something within a time period. Then, when they defend them, that view at that moment is legitimate to them; then when they give up that view, the new opinion is legitimate. Now, Mr. Bulent Turan stood up and stood in front of the press like lions, saying that we saved Fetullah Hoxha. That's what he's saying to the mean ones. Who's he talking to? Well, we're ulterior motives.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0104par0581	When did he say that?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0100par0582	Let the Republican People's Party, who say, "Let the People's Party take the punishment."
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0105par0583	My whole life, Mr. President, I've been very relaxed.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0100par0584	...saying to the opposition who expressed him: "You are ill-willed; we saved the people of Fetullah Hoxha, the people of Fethullah Hodja... The AKP saved him.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0106par0585	After 17-25, you stood behind him completely.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0100par0586	Is he lying? He's lying.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0107par0588	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0100par0589	Sit down. This discussion is over. He is head of the Saviors of Fetullah Gulen.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0107par0590	Ha ha! Bravo! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0108par0591	Mr. Levent, shall we make a correction? Let's just call this one......
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0100par0592	We're already calling it. We've been talking about it for years, and the AKP's just starting to say it.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit01spe0108par0593	Okay. You said Fetullah Hoxha. There's no Hoca, there's no Fetullah, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0108par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 42nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the final talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0109par0009	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0108par0010	Here you go, Mr. Mahmut.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0109par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. As the budget talks continued last night, there was Deputy Speaker Ahmet Aydın Bey. I wanted to ask the Minister of National Education, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz Bey, there was time. At that time -- I have the charges -- OK, Mr. Tanal, you ask the questions, and the minister reads the Gazel. He made a statement. What does Gazel mean? I mean, a person who talks nonsense means a person who gives an opinion without knowing anything. In that sense, according to Article 58 of the Civil Code, I would like to make a promise in Ahmet Aydın's name to correct this report, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0108par0013	I'll look into it, please. I'll make the decision I need to make before this merger is over. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0109par0015	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0108par0016	The first statement on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group belongs to Ankara MP Sırrıyya Önder. Here you are, Mr. Commander. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0110par0020	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. Here today are all the presidents of political parties, the co-chairs of our party, who are now in prison with the practice of a law freak. In short, you can't start this freak without drawing attention to him. The removal of these immunitys was technically caused by the suspension of the item that regulates this immunity for one time. Then something like this would have to be done, something metaphysical, but otherwise, when this extension doesn't come through, it's not possible to do a proper procedure. What was that? If there was a time machine, they could take us and judge us in the past. Since that was not the case, all of these trials were done by me. The last quarter of the country was carried out by reason. But if we had any concern about the rule of law, protecting the general universal norms of the law, it would have been an overzealous law. Then there's the Constitutional Court process, and that's the end of it. The Constitutional Court has a very genuine, confidential decision. The period, particularly Balbay, was a little bit of a Balbay, Haberal was a drunk. There, at the same time, something was said to the voter's will as well, stating that the matter of imprisonment will be left at the end of the legislative period and that the deputy will not be relieved of his legislative duty. Now, we have an application for all our fellow trustees and friends in prison, but the Constitutional Court doesn't dare take it on the agenda. You know, it's a form and it's a long-term law. In order not to get caught in the dam of this shape and time, they'll probably keep it wet in that pool until it rots. Neither law nor conscience nor consistency should tolerate this any longer. The ruling party deputy leader to the opposition parties, here, you open your mouth, court; you close, theft or other things. I'm going to give a budget speech that doesn't pass through at all. Budget discipline is missing. What's expected in a budget? Say a few words on the budget. With the funds created, central spending discipline has been bypassed in many areas of life, and these have been abducted from the Court's audit. Then, it turns out, there was an extraordinary effort and effort to smuggle him out of this court's control. When you say "testing," the power is terrified. We've always listened to a government presentation of emphasis on the election, always the nation, once again the people, and a emphasis on the road, the bridge, and the dam. My first advice to them is that in the Middle East, in the East, power is not a corrosive thing; it is an inquisitor of power. After a while, you may be able to reach out for a while by taking people's sense of security, the public's fear of livelihood. And when it's hard to get into it, it starts to produce huge costs, the continuation of the power process. As for the construction chapter, we probably built a bridge in the world. Look, just because of the road manager, even if the Minister of Transport did something that wouldn't be very welcome, something that only the General Manager of Highways would brag about becomes the only instrument of an entire power block. Look at the construction process of Berlin after the fascist occupation, a city that has been left unstuck, almost ruined, in a matter of months has been built, more than ever before, so please come here and don't play with people's perceptions, not on roads, bridges, dams or anything like that. Now, the situation arises in the days we're going through: Fear and panic are very different things, two categorically very separate issues, but they react similarly; you can't tell what's from fear, what's from panic, whether you're scared, whether you're panicked. Fear is described as a feeling that is heard in the face of certain and open things, and that allows man to survive from place to place, to protect himself. I'm sorry Mr. Mehmet Bachelor, I'm entering his space. But panic isn't like that; anxiety isn't like that. Now, in the days we're going through, the state wheel, the government, the people who run the country can be described in a state of complete anxiety and panic, but when you look at what's been done. And in this case, the issue of cognitive psychology has made it the most likely way to treat it. If you can't face it, you'll fight it, you'll fight it, you'll fight it. My speech will now contain a brief paragraph, and when it's over, I'll tell you something. Our glorious history has become a fundamental instrument in which power is constantly, at every opportunity, and at every opportunity, and at every opportunity, it has become an instrument of nationalism, domesticity, and so forth. Turkish nationalists at the time voiced here sufficiently and effectively what this government understood about nationalism, nationalism, domesticity. I'd like to speak with this historical reference. The most important instrument in the history of the world is the ability, the ability, the ability, and the ability to form what we call Turkishism. As some Western sources have corrupted, the Turks have not created such areas of migration and sovereignty with their militant features. It's their ability to establish order that allows them to do so. When they first came to Anatolia, they all had 100-150 Anatolian ereni; they had no horses, they had no guns, they had no armies; they had no armies; but this geography had a strong word -- one strong word, almost magical -- between the peoples and the faiths -- that we look at seventy-two nations with a evil eye. The Turks did not land Alparslan (Aparslan) and Anatolia (Anatolian) as they were supposed to; it was perhaps the final stage of the work. The Turks were in the state of Anatolia because it was good for the peoples who were at the throats, the peoples who had no perspective other than to destroy the other, the peoples, the peoples, the peoples who had become bizarro. One of the most revealing qualities of his ability and ability to set this order was that they had the most important practice in the history of co-existence law and co-living culture, and the Turks were increasingly developing these repertoires. Why? They were speaking through a concept of us. Here we look at two nations with one evil eye. This was a work of the concept of "we." And then this concept of us, especially in the process of the formation of the republic, will happen again, I know, but I have to say this again, because I finally have a note. The Republic was the name of the intersecting point of opportunity and necessity. At the intersection of these possibilities, this phenomenon became so powerful that we were able to maintain the balance that we were able to get a home from here. Whatever happened, with this concept of us being emptied out of one person, one species, one race, one belief, our troubles began, and we still can't cope with it. There's only one way Western imperialist countries can achieve prosperity in their own country, and they've done it. There's only one explanation: they exported their internal conflict and conflict to third countries. So if all the imperial states of the West have been able to achieve prosperity, peace and so forth in their own country, it's because they export these conflicts to poorer, poorer, weaker countries. But something happened in these lands: We were exported to other beliefs and Kurds because we could not be exported to the land that we had all been in. And in the days that we're going through, we're having trouble living through that practice over and over and over again, together as a country and saving huge costs for the future. Again, the Turkish Union has been cut off from its ability to establish order. You know, if we're going to talk about an official nationalism, a nationalism, a state nationalism, all by fetishizing a state that's a 200-year-old invention, tabooly talking about a state nationalism, it's the most valuable thing to deal with if we're really talking about a historical point of consciousness. Foreign pilgrims and historians often talk about the 1526 Mohaç Walk, and it's good for everyone to remember. It's more effective than our own propaganda. The Mohaç March was built with an army of 200,000 people, and all of these foreign historians stress this: "All the Rumeli have passed through this army of 200,000 without raising up a single grain of wheat. This has been so badly embroidered in history. Well, let's look at the way this ability and ability is reflected at the point where we're here today: we're down to 81 provinces and 80 provinces. As we went through all of Rumeli, we wiped a city from the map under the guise of terror from a cognitive mind that didn't step on a grain of wheat. Is that a method? It's a method. But the Mongols did it, the Ottomans did not. And that's when the way it goes down in history comes out. If we're gonna talk about it, we're gonna talk about it here. We, the People's Democratic Party, have never found violence as a means of search for rights or motive, we have not seen it, we have sought the mercy of all our citizens who died most violently for it, and we have condemned it with hatred. And yet, in the last event alone, we said our first -- everybody knows who they are -- our sincere response, our feelings. There is also a document leaked from the Police Headquarters today, saying that there will be something like this in Ankara, such as anxiety, anxiety, fear of the future, a war that lasts 40 years and a contract waiting for a war that lasts 40 years. Some friends take the word of war. The state's official record is a low-density war, which is the state's official record. It's hard to imagine if there were 40 years of war when the fighting sides were clean, not dirty, not other hands were involved. In the paradigm of the 21st century, intelligence wars are not the way to present former-style agents' provocateurs. The defining concept of this century is to promote progress. If you give progress a certain appeal, the rest is the work of the law of physics, where everything will flow. So the fact that we have to read our own statement separately is due to our difference in approach to this issue. It has nothing to do with whether our hearts burn less than our other friends -- whether I even want to pronounce the other -- to be positive or forgiving. There is a difference between us and this historical approach, which is natural. Everyone can think of a lot of different things in the context of the issue because of their own class origin, their own worldview, ideas, and many other things. The mechanism we call Congress, when you look at it in its historical form -- I mean, I don't mean the Grand National Assembly -- is what we call Congress -- is the matter of the broadest compromise possible by discussing these differences. Politics is what we call a faction, which is basically a division, a division. Division is a more effective response, but how can this division be overcome? Promise. And we have nothing but words, but everyone who comes up here is charging our group with accusations that we can't, that we can't, that we can't, that we can't, that we can't be remembered together. Our headquarters got shot last night. A week ago, our members of the party council and members of the MYK were unable to pass through the party headquarters due to security control. There was such a thing as a substitute who was not told the reason. Imagine, in front of your political party, the police are setting up a barrier like this. For some reason, there are attackers passing through police control that our party council member has failed to pass. I'll give you two examples, but here's the note I wanted to pass on to you about my conversation. He's familiar with the friends who continue to the parliament, and those who don't continue can confirm from the transcripts; this is the 40-year demand for me, this is the speech I've made about the Horasan erans, the Anatolians, my friends. On the grounds of the Diyarbakır Criminal Court's ruling, I made this speech in Diyarbakir, which is exactly what I'm missing here, I've got a sentence or two on it, and I'm looking at 40 years for that speech. I can send an example of that indictment to any friend who wishes. In addition to this conversation and the fact that this conversation was made in the DTK, let him say: "You have made false statements, you have made incomplete statements, you have made too many statements. This is not just my unique situation. All of our files, if this process had been run, if the immunity process had gone to a mixed commission, I'm sure many of you would have said, "Is it worth keeping the courts busy for such a ridiculous claim?" A politician's right of speech can be interpreted in a very broad sense all over the world. At most, he may have spoken incorrectly, at the most, he may have spoken ill -- if there is no incentive to violence, I separate him -- but therefore a parliamentary sentence cannot be required for 40 years. That's one of our different approaches. We all signed together in the July 15 coup, but how did it end? It was treated like three political parties signed it. Normally, it's up to us, after we've been treated like these, sirs, that we've signed a joint statement with you, but you've gone through this process as if it were the three parties that signed it. Why are you applying for our signature now? We're not here. What we regret is the state of our country, the state of our youth, our whole future, our common homeland. So we didn't hang out here, so the text that would be a partner shouldn't be like a political party charter. You can use any concept you want in your party declaration, but when you look for a partnership, you have to fulfill it. We already said, "Let's write it together." We didn't say, "Let's write it together." There was a text when we left. Will you sign it?" The lawless don't end here. These are the days in which you can't always comprehend them, but then they become the name of a great shame. Then people have to express their regret over and over again. Come on, it's all right, but our common future is being severely destroyed, and we have young people leaving. Now, I'm just saying, it's okay if it's against the law. I'd like to ask all my fellow lawmakers here to address their consciences: you're all visiting the prisoner and prisoner you requested in prison. We weren't allowed until a week ago. We haven't been told the reason for this ban until a week ago. We couldn't go to any prison. When our co-chairs were taken into prison -- it's a disgrace, it's no longer a law -- I mean, it's a disgrace to do this -- that other parties' deputies could visit, and we couldn't. When this monstrosity is more unsustainable, Mr. Minister of Justice, we are not allowed to visit our mayors, like Ahmet Turk, like Gültan Kışanak, although there was no such thing yesterday, which is almost a two-year ban on our prison view, but when this is started, we will not allow you to go to court; we will allow those who do not go to court; we will allow them to see those who do not. They have been told, and they were not allowed to visit our mayors, such as Gültan Kışanak, like Bakir Kaya. When our trustees followed their criteria, they were deprived of them. Now, that reason just changed again. A deputy of ours, who has no complaints about you, has asked the Justice Department for permission to visit you in prison -- in these measurements. You didn't sign that joint statement he just said, so don't come to me for an opinion. These aren't really our issues. The heart would want... there are friends who point to it, and I'm holding them aside, and I'm thanking them all for their sensitivity; there's the ruling party, there's the opposition party, that's what it's like to look for rights. You know, there's a famous abandonment: whatever happens to mankind is from Hakk, but it's because of leaving Hakk. The heart would wish that when he was separated from Hakk, more of our fellow trustees would rise here and demand that this injustice be rectified, not this. Our headquarters has been attacked for the fourth time, it's five o'clock, there's no message from any political party. But there are two very important events. Before that, a prominent citizen, a very young man, was found in his home, having suffered a heart attack or a suspicious death, and they were not subjected to excessive detention or punishment. He was probably a citizen who acted in an act of encouragement, provocation, or incentive by countermeasures, perhaps to say something, died with a suspicious death. Well, whoever we're investigating, we're looking at a criminal painting that's way outside of a citizen's sensitivity profile as a criminal record that we're looking at. What's happening is that those advanced Western imperial states exported their own woes elsewhere to protect their own peace and stability. I think I'm out of time.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0111par0048	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0110par0049	Cheers! Another is the incident that led to the breakdown of the entire process, which resulted in the death of two of our police officers in Urbana, which resulted in the massacre. He's been walking around in hundreds of shadows. At least what we know is that what they're showing as perpetrators isn't the perpetrator. Let me make this brief, the tariff police commissioner of the period gave a statement to the coup commission, and all the fellow trustees can access it. The way Mr. Efkan Ala and Mr. Numan were attacked there, and then there are many examples and dark spots in the triggering process.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0111par0051	Will you complete it, sir?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0110par0052	Thank you. I mean, someone's put in place their plan to create this trend as a way to keep the country busy in this war. Those involved in these actions may not even know it. You don't need a payroll relationship like you used to, you don't need a staff relationship. When someone who knows the sensitivities of this society, who knows the open nerve endings, touches it with an abbreviated touch, they know how sparks, lynchings, hate speech will swell. I'd like to finish with an example of our glorious history. I'll tell you about the stoner. I've read it in him. It's the Inebaht. In the face of the destruction of our fleet by the Holy Alliance -- the season is winter -- Ulusic goes to Ali Pasha Skululu. There's a saying referred to in the case that we've always brought up the size of the hammock, as that lucky history of ours. By summer, this navy must be rebuilt and faced with that attack. He said, "Pasha, there's no need to worry." If this nation wants, it can make the ropes of its navy out of my fluids and its sails out of atlasm. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one more minute...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0112par0057	Please let's finish.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0110par0058	Thank you. We don't read this in our history books, but the rest is never said. The student went on to say -- I'll repeat your entire speech and thank you -- Paşa, there's no cause for alarm. If these people want, they can make the navy's ropes out of my fluids and their sails atlas, but those Levents that are leaving can't bring them back. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's our human resources that's gone. The most important things that can't be replaced, that can't be easily compensated are our human resources and our time. There are no imitations of these two, no forgeries, no easy ones. So, where's the solution? The solution... we've experienced for two and a half years, and this government has never had this experience before. With all due respect, I'd like to end this with the President's leniency.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0113par0062	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0110par0063	I'm speaking as a surrogate, as a person who's been hurt, free of polemic weather and speculation.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0113par0064	Mr. Tarayya...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0110par0065	Sir...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0113par0066	If our other orator can give you some time...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0114par0067	Okay, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0113par0068	Miss Flitz?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0114par0069	Sure, I can give you a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0113par0070	All right, sir, let's add it.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0115par0071	Not a minute, five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0116par0072	No, wait a minute, wait a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0113par0073	Wait a minute, okay.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0116par0074	I don't want to take credit for my friend, we're still here, we'll talk. In my last speech, I told you what actually happened in the process, and I made a commitment to you: I said that I would apologize from the government, from the ministers of the era, from the Prime Minister, from the President, from the truth. Prove it. I won't say it. You know, there's never been an exit like this from anyone. It's the country we're worried about, and we're telling the truth. We've been through a process, we've had cons, we've had more, but that's what happened all over the world. We tried to walk by building our own drink, and no one gave us a hand. No one could predict that the alternative cost would be a terrible thing. Today, we live in those days. Once again, in the eyes of one of us, and in the days when the laws of all my chosen friends were returned to us... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... to speak of our problems at eye level, and I salute all of you with longing for a day when they will be able to look for their solutions.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0117par0079	Thank you, Mr. Commander. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the second statement belongs to İstanbul MP and Deputy Minister of the Group, Mr. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir. Your time is 28 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0118par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I would have given Dear Sırrıyya Leader a lot more than a minute if I wasn't the only woman speaking in this Parliament today. Unfortunately, since it's always been this way, I'd like to take full advantage of it myself, and I think the President will consider it. As I begin to speak, the General Assembly welcomes the viewers, the women, the young, the workers, and the retired. I wish you not death, but life, not poverty, prosperity, not discrimination, but brotherhood and peaceful days. We've held talks on the 2017 budget here for days, we've evaluated the ministries one by one, and now we're on the stand for closing arguments, but it's hard to close this budget. Too much death, too much persecution, too much poverty, too little income, too much freedom, it's hard to close a budget. So, what is the sum of this budget? The only answer we can give you is that the 2017 budget is a budget in which workers, women, students, pensioners, pensioners, different identities, beliefs, the people who form the society of Turkey can't see themselves. In response to the fact that the budget concerns the entire community and directly affects its life, the people of political power reduces the budget to a purely bureaucratic and technical process by shutting down civil society organisations, occupational organisations and opposition parties. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would, of course, like to continue my speech by making a substantial assessment of the budget. But during the 12 days of the budget negotiations alone, yes, we faced dozens of problems and crises that swept the country while we were under this roof: the transfer of 12 girls' rights to public housing in Aladağ, and the death of our President Demirel and woman to my word by gross negligence, the death of 44 of our citizens due to a live bomb attack in Beşiktas, the loss of their lives, the delivery of the constitutional proposal under closed doors, to the Assembly of the Interior Minister's call for revenge; the fact that the 12 girls' rights to public housing in Aladağ would be transferred to cults, and that the hostage of our deputy, the attack of our deputy incumbent, who had been taken into custody last night by the police, and the police officer who had been arrested by the police, who had been arrested by the police, and the police officers who had been arrested by the police. Guys, this all happened in 12 days, in 12 days. Amongst the many cases of unlawfulness and disaster, his teacher poses to his students a death rope, calls for caliphates from the official vehicle of the municipality of Skopjedar, suspends me as the rate of reading increases, I rely on the illiterates. We can't even discuss the fate of Müjgan Ekin, who hasn't been found for 48 days, and the tortures from Istanbul's Homeland Security and other cities. Dear lawmakers, you continue to operate the legislature on the agenda of the Palace, as if nothing had happened in this country. By ignoring the state the country is in and the people's urgent needs, you set the agenda of Congress based on one person's ambition for the presidency, on one person's ambition for the presidency. The legislature, which is the basic institution of control, is almost bypassed. As the budget talks continued four days ago, an arrest warrant was issued for our Group Vice President, Mr. Çağlar Demirel, who spent nearly 24 hours here on legislature activities, on the grounds that he may have fled abroad. It was here, the Age of Ironel, 24 hours. Yes, a warrant has been issued for the arrest of a situation that has nothing to do with the truth, and there are no signatures or seals under it. I'd like to show you that there are lawmakers like myself. It's a thing that undermines Parliament's reputation. You have to face it now. When there was an attack on a party building, and last night, when we present the attack on our headquarters here, all the party groups here need to say, "Let it pass immediately." You say the Union, the integrity, the unity, the unity, but that's what's going to do it. It's not proper to be afraid to even do so, dear MPs. Yes, from our point of view, there's only one explanation for these irregularities, which is that the operations against us are not legal, but political operations and political genocide operations. Can you continue to say that there is an independent judiciary in this country for the investigations of our co-chairs, lawmakers, which have been conducted by different prosecutors and pushed at the same time? Please, don't really make us laugh, and don't mock the minds of the people who listen to us. In a democratic country, the government is obliged to protect and protect the rights of all citizens, not just those who voted for it. We don't have to think the same way, we can't do politics in this parliament, considering the same things. In democracies, the state's fundamental legal bond with the public is the bond of representation. This bond is also a fundamental feature of the legal legitimacy of the state's sovereignty. Like Hakkari, almost all municipal co-chairs, district managers, and two deputies have been arrested. In this way, the rule of sovereignty of the people, whose state is a legitimate area, is almost destroyed. In Hakkari, for example, what kind of legal connection do you intend to have with the people in Hakkari, whose co-chairs, as well as all of their deputies? Or what kind of legal connection do you intend to establish with Şırnak, Bitlis, or a deputy, the HDP Co-Chair? Again, the government that holds power in a democratic country does not attack those who do not vote for it, but accepts the opposition as essential to a democratic political understanding. Because that's basically the essence of democratic life. Yes, friends, that's why we're being attacked by the pluralism, the understanding of justice, the power of peace, which is unfortunately the only power against which the HDP stands. That is the reason for the isolation and torture of our co-chairs and deputies today. This is why the same practices are being carried out in Yassiada, Chainbozan, Diyarbakır Prison, and today in Edirne, Kandira, Silivri, Bolu, and Bolu. This is the main reason why the raid of our city and district building almost every day, the curfews were declared in Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey and Turkey. The plan is to burn the country for power by creating a nationalist and militant climate, creating a comprehensive fight against terrorism, allowing reelection to re-election into one party power. Erdogan-AKP's decision to put the fight against Kurdish people into the fight against ISIS is unacceptable. It won't stay there, and it won't. Such dynamics soon began to become a serious attack on the living ground of all the peoples of Turkey. Honourable lawmakers also laid the groundwork for the July 15 coup attempt, when the AKP government considers security policies and war as the only way to resolve the Kurdish issue. In the Suruç massacre, we repeatedly warned that the war process, which began with 33 young people's deaths, was the basis for the coup. We're not going to tell you again for a long time. Civilians burned in basements in Mother Taybet and Cizre, whose dead body was left on the street for days and not allowed to be buried, set a few examples of what happened during that period. The military's daring coup on July 15th was directly related to the possibilities of political will for the destruction of these cities. The main goal of the coup was to start a civil war and to do a great deal of destruction in the country. On July 15th, we saw that we needed peace and freedom, strong, civil, democratic politics, a bread and water. We've all seen it together, and we've stopped this initiative together as a whole, as different social groups of people who believe in democracy, peace, and we've stopped it from happening, and we've stood on the same side against this understanding that struck the will of the people. In the first place, our co-Chair, Denizhattin Demirtaş, called for a meeting of the leaders' summit, stressing the need to unite against the coups. As HDP, we have stated that not only a military coup, but a bureaucratic or civilian coup will have no legitimate justification. On July 16th, when Parliament was called to an extraordinary meeting, our Group Vice President Idris Bauken -- who is now in Kandira Prison -- presented the control, repelling of the July 15 coup attempt, and preventing the coup to democratic politics as the greatest wish and goal for our party. July 15th had brought such a disaster, but it also presented us with an important opportunity to learn from this disaster, to end the conflicting environment that began after June 7th, to end the polarisation, to rebuild social unity, to strengthen democracy, to create freedom and peace. Dear lawmakers, as of July 16th, we said there were two roads to civilian politics. The first was to demonstrate a political understanding that would unite the country, that we could achieve all kinds of political co-operation on the basis of peace, democracy, human rights, law state. We described this first path as the road to democracy. Because on July 15th, his stand against the coup, his ethnic origin, his language, his faith, without disseminating the identity of politics and our peoples, had given us all hope for the future. It was possible, my friends, that it was possible to do so under the roof of this Parliament. After July 15th, there was a second way in front of civil politics. What's the second way? It was to build an authoritarian regime that didn't take place on July 15th that even the coupists couldn't imagine. We also called it fascism. As it is so clear from today's table, what the coupgers would not dare to do was actually put into practice by the State of Emergency provisions, by the decrees of the law. Yes, let us listen to the words of our Co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş, who was held hostage by order of political will as a political consequence of your preferred course. See, after July 15th, Mr. Demirtaş described his preferred route not more than a month after July 15th: the failure of the coup attempt opened an opportunity for Turkey. A common political language could be created around democracy to prevent unity, a peaceful solution to the Kurdish problem, a return to the talks, camping and polarisation. However, at the same rate another possibility was opened, Erdogan saw the coup and the failure of the coup as a blessing to God himself. It was an opportunity for society and a blessing for Erdogan on the other hand. Erdogan preferred what was for him, turned the Yenikapi rally into a AKP demonstration, and excluded half the community, making camping permanent. I think you're doing this with a lot of planning, a lot of programming. Yes, the aim of the coups was to imprison the country into a dark period, but it's being done much more now. You may think you've locked up the coupgers, but their ideas live outside with your policies. The country has fallen into tremendous polarization and tension. Everyone's desperate, concerned about the future. Young people are planning to go abroad, and that doesn't just mean that today is the end of our future, it means that we lose our future because young people are our future. They'll invent, they'll develop technology. They're not just going to be proud of the double roads, they're going to do a lot of things to be really proud of, but to do that, the political system has to be a democratic environment and it has to offer them opportunities, it has to offer them freedom, it has to offer them peace. Yes, dear lawmakers, let us remind you that the machete of the Fetullahist structure took place during this period of power. Now, you may almost try to hold our party responsible for everything that's happened in this country, but you've been in power for 14 years, and you've been with the people who've actually been doing the coup for 14 years. Now, what I'd like to point out in Congress is that the Strike Research Commission has been established, you know, we've all established this Commission together, but what is the opinion of this Commission now? The discovery of all persons and institutions involved in the coup attempt is the full extent of what happened during the coup. But at the point where we came in, a strong impression of the administration and the majority of the AKP MPs is beginning to appear as the Commission is trying to cover up, cover up the coup attempt, away from its basic purpose. A few weeks ago, I think the Commission lost its function, the report can be written and done. The direct intervention of the Commission, which includes instructions, strengthens that impression. It is also remarkable that during the commission's work, many people and institutions that opposition lawmakers have requested that they be heard are not heard. General Staff Chief Hulusi Akar and MIT Undersecretary Hakan Fidan are only a few of them. Whose signatures are under the declaration of peace in the country? For example, why haven't the pilots who bombed this Assembly been heard from the Strike Commission? We don't know, you're the ones who have to explain it, and you're the ones who are most often in charge of that Commission. Dear lawmakers have also triggered a political crisis, a heavy economic crisis, and a diplomatic crisis, which threatens our future as a result of this entry after July 15th. The unstoppable rise in dollars, the increase in unemployment and inflation, the follow-up increases, the spread of flexible and unsecured work, the increase in bankruptcy delays, are just some of the effects of the state-of-the-art regime in which the country is put into economic space. The political government is not taking any responsibility for the economic crisis, but it is trying to hide the distortion in its own ability. Today, those who tell these stories should also remember that they have earned their share in foreign financing and that they have approved and applied this economic model for 14 years, which is becoming increasingly dependent on foreign debt. Instead of productive industrial production, this system is based on unhealthy growth with internal consumption and ranta-based construction investments. But it's not the workers growing; it's the capital cut that's been rewarded with growing incentives, tax-free regimes and pardons, and the political power has taken its share of the capital order. Although we're now on the anniversary of the 17th December, and we've been banned by power from learning the details of the Rant relationship and corruption, we know very well what's left for us. Over the past 14 years, more than 50 million people have been under the poverty line, minimum wage for workers below the hunger line, people have died in mines, construction sites, job killings. When the already unbearable economic order for us began to collapse, even for themselves, with increasing external debt, the world was greater than 5 ▪ to cover up its own mistakes. They began to say, "The West is more than just accusing it of colonialism. " However, those who resort to this path are not interested in independence, but in building a new imperialist state based on exploitation and colonialism. Erdogan's lack of diplomatic courtesy and consistency and policies also distance the implementation of the State of Emergency regime from the European Union, where Turkey is a step-by-step candidate and from the values represented by the European Union. The critical point here is that he does it on purpose. This road resembles Turkey's antidemocratic government, which dominates the Middle East. Do you guys know what's fundamental about people in today's world who don't have any answers? Looking for themselves in the past tense. The AKP's ongoing effort to bring the masses together through Ottoman references is the most obvious example of this. The AKP, which founded its first term on democracy, equality and freedom rhetoric, today governs this country with decrees, raises constitutional proposals that legalise dictatorship, and mentions that the President himself is the story of freedom and democracy. At the point where we're here today, the AKP government and the President are either not implementing the laws, or in their own interest, in a arbitrary way. As you know, the President has been effectively eliminating the Constitution for a long time. We've experienced it for a long time with the removal of freedom of expression, we've lived in the removal of immunity, and this process that we're going to define as irresponsibility is that in the context of the most fundamental principles and rights in a country, the contract that is fundamental to society living together is being ignored. This is a massive social decay. Today, the package brought under the new constitution of the AKP is the text of its unconstitutionalisation package, which has been in effect for a full time. Yes, that's what we call this secret contract -- if we take a closer look at it all, first of all, by removing the existing junta constitution at the speed of June 7th, by eliminating all controlling institutions, by creating a new constitution, so-called Kurds, women, Alevis, all democratic, opposition, with policies that have improved the coupe of military protection. The Constitution, the social contract, is built on its name, with the community. I'd like to ask you: How can there be a new constitution in which women, Kurds, Alevi, democrats, minorities, LGBT, libertarians, outcasts, dissociatives, workers have no rights, no demands, no constitution? This constitution, I want to say again, will smell of the Kenan universe. The constitution, which you say will be fulfilled by that junta constitution that we haven't yet been able to lift, will smell of the Kenan universe again. I'd like to ask you again, which one of you has a new request in this new contract, other than the sultanate? There is no new demand in this text. Yes, our dear people and dear lawmakers, we are not without alternatives. We held talks under the roof of this Parliament to build a constitution that would end the constitution of coups, and we found out what kind of constitution it should be. In the first place, we have prepared and presented a constitutional study of the country's urgent need for democracy, which is based on governance in the face of centralisation, where the equality of men and women is adopted in every title, with social communities. We are still at this point, and we think that with all the people of Turkey and a constitution that solves all problems, a constitution that guarantees basic human rights, peace can only be achieved in this country. Dear friends, the real solution today comes from the brotherly message of the Somese working families, visiting the painful families of Siirt Shirvan. Today we have no other solution. This darkness will end and we'll wake up in the bright morning.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0119par0112	Sir, let's finish in two minutes, please.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0118par0113	We are confident that the country will be able to come out of this crisis with only more democracy, and after a night of cold and dark, Minerva's owl is about to sing in the dark. The foundation of our party is clear. HDP is the only party in Turkey that can bridge the peoples. The existence of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) which represents those seeking freedom, equality, justice in Parliament is essential in the establishment of peace and democracy. Today morning, a party of our Aleki deputy ran to the trial of our former mufti, HDP. Don't want to destroy it, it shouldn't happen. For the brotherhood, the existence of the HDP (HDP) is very important for democracy to live together. I want to end my words with the verses of Edip Candor, a poet that all of Turkey really loves. In the poetry of Carnations of Gravity, Edip Cansever says: "We are growing a love with you. We are growing a love together, and we will grow a love together. When we grow this, it's not just carnations, but democracy, peace, freedom. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0120par0118	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0121par0119	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0120par0120	Here you are, Mr. Naci.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0121par0121	Mr. President, the speaker has an expression that the struggle against the Kurdish people of Erdoğan and the EC PARTI is intended to be part of the fight against ISIS. It's an open taunt. In this frame, you have the right to say...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0120par0122	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0121par0127	Mr. President, dear friends, the AK PARTY and the state have been fighting against the PKK since 1984, that's right. The PKK went out on the field as an armed terrorist organization. The Epocus also have a history. Since then, the state has been fighting terrorism under its legal rights. What have the people who gave life to the PKK been doing since the past? First they beat the Kurds, you remember, they hit the Kurds in the head, and then they used terror as a strategic weapon to create an ethnic consciousness, to create a spirit of solidarity from the death of Kurds, but also by killing others, to stir up Kurdish in a nationalistic rage. The state is fighting against this terror. Yes, and in Syria, the PYD is a terrorist organization. You say the struggle against the Kurdish people, the PYD represents the Kurdish people? Is the PKK representing the Kurdish people? Didn't the Kurds escape the persecution of the PYD and go to the northern Iraq area? Who are they? Aren't they Kurdish people? Isn't it the Kurds that the Epocus have hit on their heads, killed, and denied life since 1980? Aren't the Kurds from the Kurds you started today and insulted and declared traitors and collaborators when you didn't vote? Who are the Kurdish people? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It's the terror we're fighting. You can't say we're against terrorism and then we're against terrorism. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0122par0133	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0123par0134	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0122par0135	Yes, ma'am...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0123par0136	I didn't quite understand what he said.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0124par0137	The language of the region...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0123par0138	...as a result, there was some sort of bullying against our party. It's not what we meant.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0125par0139	Here you go, sir. In a matter of two minutes... But please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0126par0142	Mr. Secret will speak.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0125par0143	Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0127par0145	If you are a teacher, if you do not know how to use dialects, you do not need to use dialects; you can say as you understand them; now I have heard you say dialects of the region. I had a meeting with the Prime Minister of the period in the Kobani process with Mr Ahmet Davutoglu. Why did this come to be the title of the discussion, when this was not a title of our negotiations? I said: "All the mouth of authority is this PYD, Kobani, Rojava is our red line." They say, "Now I am Prime Minister, please tell them, Rojava is not our red line." Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0128par0149	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0129par0150	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit02spe0128par0151	Mr. Tanal, my review continues, and I will do my due diligence within the merger. I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0128par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 42nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the final talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0130par0009	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0128par0010	Mr. Mahmut, we're going to talk about this merger, so don't rush, let's take this incident, let's not interrupt. Yes, the first word on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group now belongs to Mr. Ismet Buyanatman. Mr. Bigfoot, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0131par0015	Mr. President, I stand before you to announce the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computing Law Bill. I hereby salute your delegation with the utmost respect. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before I go over my assessment of the budget, I ask for the mercy of God to 44 of our brothers who were killed in the traitorous attack in Istanbul last weekend, and the immediate healing for our wounded citizens. Our nation is united against this terrible and devastating terrorist attack, and wants to see those responsible found and punished, not left on the ground, not just a few terrorists punished, but wiped out the root of terror. Dear lawmakers, budget talks are an important means of auditing Turkey's Grand National Assembly, where the opposition voiced warnings, criticism and recommendations on government policies, where government actions have been evaluated. The most important feature of the budget, which shows how much resources the government will allocate to which areas it will raise from which areas, is the indication of what criteria and rights are being observed when blessing and burdens are distributed among our citizens. Because the injustices, inequalities, and injustices that have come out of our citizens' policies rather than their poverty leave deeper marks on them. You can appreciate that it is not possible to separate the economy from politics, economic activities from social issues, economic comments from areas such as security, order, culture, foreign policy. Members of parliament, Turkey is now passing through a critical period of extreme and negative conditions, almost a circle of fire. National security issues are getting heavy, and our internal and external security is exposed to serious dangers and threats. Turkey faces a very serious beka problem. For a long time, our country has been under pressure and siege of complex events, chaotic developments, almost through a row bridge. Honourable MPs, the Turkish nation, have witnessed a shameful betrayal, such as the attempted July 15th (July 15th). Our goal is to prevent a repeat of such hostility. Our legacy will not be guaranteed in fear of loss of power and privilege, but in the presence of hugs, solidarity, common values and national facts. Therefore, Turkish politics is obliged to address Turkey's main issues without miscalculation, conflict and conflict. The National Movement Party has every positive, meaningful attempt for its nation and country, given its precision, principles, and fundamentals, which it has explained on every occasion. For many years, the July 15 coup attempt has shown frighteningly how a gang has infiltrated the state with systematic efforts. The big picture in front of us is very bad. This organization has been seen to have been secretly organized in the police, the judiciary, the army and the bureaucracy, almost all the bridge heads. He has established absolute control over intelligence units, seriously nested at universities, created a network of private teaching institutions, gained enormous wealth, gained great power in the media, and finally has the ability and ability to carry out bloody acts of terror. The National Movement Party will never leave its state alone in the relentless and uncompromising struggle with environments that are always on guard, always on alert, who want to put shackles on Turkey's foot. Dear lawmakers, the political footwork of this structure is still unclear in the fight against ا, and after July 15th, the investigations, decoupling and liquidation of the building have not been done to just one institution. This institution, as it is known, is a political institution. The coup attempt on July 15 will not be able to be understood or illuminated in all its aspects without being exposed. Before the political footing is discovered, the fight against ▪ will be lame, and this wicked terrorist organization will not be able to be eradicated. Congressmans, terrorism is now Turkey's most important and vital issue. There is no peace for Turkey until we remove this plague, overcome this savage aggression. Terror hits Turkey every day. Bloody terrorist groups are targeting Turkey in turns. Our country is in the midst of a tough, bloody, constant struggle for life and death. Turkey's bloodiest terrorist organizations in history are engaged in a relentless fight against the PKK, the PSD, ISIS, the DHKP-C and outside. Turkish Armed Forces operate in Syrian territory against ISIS and TYD. The PKK terrorist organization's attacks have escalated. The fight against terrorism is a difficult, difficult, costly process. Turkey is directly targeted by a large number of bloody and murderous organizations, the manufacture of global power centers and the tongs of intelligence organisations. Fighting terrorism requires the pursuit of high skill and discreet policies, particularly a high sense of patriotism. We need unity and unity today, more than anything, to achieve the outcome of this struggle. In the last year and a half, hundreds of our citizens have lost their lives and more than 2,000 others have been injured in the bombings launched in Suruç district of Şanlıurfa, Şanlıurfa, on July 20, 2015. The treachery of Beşiktaş has once again shown that terrorism is the most important and heavy issue in this country. It's not possible to get results just by fighting security forces. In order for the fight against terrorism to be done effectively, there are things that need to be done with urgency, such as draining the source, destroying the field of abuse, cutting off political, economic, foreign political support. In all these matters, the National Movement Party has proposed clear, understandable and practical solutions. Besides, reducing social conflict and ending political tension is essential for an effective fight. We have no choice but to hug each other. So we have to keep together, the brotherhood, the ground of being a nation. After that, we must remember that the fight against terrorism will become easier, that our country, surrounded by fire, will have a chance to breathe. In this struggle, we want the National Movement Party to know that we will make any decision that will benefit our country, free of any political debate. Congressmans, deep cracks in Iraq and Syria narrow down our maneuvering field. Security and geopolitical risks, political and economic tides are blocking Turkey, draining its potential power. The dire developments in Iraq and Syria are alarming in every way. Risks, dangers and threats aimed at Turkey's national security are gaining new dimensions every day. Turkish Armed Forces are on Syrian territory to fight ISIS and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Turkey's ability to take any preventive and deterrent measures against Turkey's intervention beyond our border zones would be a requirement of our right to self-defense due to international law. The targets for the first phase of Operation Firat Shield have been largely achieved, and our border area has been cleared of ISIS. Turkey's operational support of the Free Syrian Army has taken control of the second bastion of ISIS in Syria, Al-Bab (also known as Al-Bab). The importance of al- Bab (El Bab) is very strategic for Turkey. The main threshold for Turkey's formation of a safe zone 40-50km south of the Cobanbey-Cerablus line is El Bab. The PKK and El Bab are crucial to intercepting the PKK and the NYD, which want to combine the three so-called cantons along the Turkish border and form an uninterrupted corridor of terror. In this regard, it is also important to remove the PYD elements from Menbic (PYD), which have crossed Turkey's red lines to the west of Fırat. The Turkish Armed Forces also respond effectively to the PID (PJ) and ISIS (Islamic State of Iraq) who have attacked our military elements in the region for this purpose. Our heroic soldiers carry out their assignments with great success and sacrifice. On this occasion, I extend my condolences to our sons who were killed in the military operation, God Almighty, and to their relatives, and to the great Turkish nation. What will be effective in determining our strategy for Syria is the fight against Syrian terrorism, preventing enemies from Turkey, and guaranteeing the security and future of our Turkmen brothers. The National Movement Party has fully supported and will continue to support the effective measures taken by the government for our national security. Respected lawmakers, a major drama is taking place today in the thousands-year-old Turkishmen's home, Aleppo. There is murder in Aleppo. In Aleppo, suffering and torture prevail, and the death of Aleppo (Aleppo) means turning away from our history, the silence of our national dignity. They want to give us a new Kerbala in Aleppo. The Russian and Iranian-backed Assad regime destroys Aleppo (Aleppo) before the eyes of the world. Women, children, old people are left to starve, then to die. The persecution of Aleppo remains silent in the world. The cries of the oppressed in Aleppo were ignored and ignored; the destruction and destruction of Aleppo was, unfortunately, only watched. Once again, we condemn the world that closes its eyes to this savagery. Where are those who talk about human rights at every turn, and where is the world called genocide? In this century, today, there is a genocide in Aleppo. The poor world is unaware, the poor world is deaf. They have eyes, they do not see; they have ears, they do not hear; they have tongues, they do not speak the truth and the truth; for it is the Muslim who is persecuted, because it is the Turk who is under fire. Meanwhile, an evacuation of civilians from Aleppo is a significant, positive development as a result of our country's initiative. Honourable MPs, the developments in Iraq also threaten Turkey's national security. The obstacles to Turkey's participation in the operation to cleanse Mosul (Islamic) from ISIS and the Basika crisis show a new front against Turkey in Iraq. Honourable MPs, we are at an important stage in our relations with our so-called ally, the United States of America. The PYD, unfortunately, today, has become the land force of our ally, the United States, in Syria. The U.S. has been blindsided to liquidating ISIS terrorism in Syria with the help of another terrorist organization. In this way, the United States awards terrorism for weapons and logistic support to this terrorist organisation, which is identical to the PKK. It is clear that this attitude by the United States of America, which prefers its tactical partnership with bloody terrorists to Turkey's friendship, does not coincide with friendship and alliance relations. The United States, which still doesn't see this as a dead end, is actually co-operating PKK terrorism with its support for the NYD. The so-called developed countries, which have not dropped the concepts of freedom, are unfortunately in closed-circuit relations with terrorist organisations. In Diyarbakir, for example, criminals who drive bombs in Şırnak or Hakkari, ambush, mineming, firing bullets at our soldiers, police, bodyguards, and civilian citizens are the head of Europe. The dirty hands that pulled the trigger in Mardin are being caressed in Paris. In Ankara, the monsters who wrapped a bomb around his body in Istanbul are praised in Berlin. In Brussels, and in other European capitals, the posters of the baby killer hang up the rags of terrorist organizations and the participation of the PKK fan group in HDP are sabotaging Turkey, saluting terrorism; this is what Germany is doing, and that is exactly what France is doing. The European Union is on the side of those who seek self-government and autonomy from ditchs; the European Union is on the side of those whose hands have been broken, who have finally earned it by throwing stones and slaps at police. Terrorist lovers who attend the funerals of Mehmetçik and police killers are being watched by European Union relatives. Friendship and alliance do not mean aiding and abetting terrorist organizations, nor should it be interpreted that way. Dear guests, my esteemed congresswoman friends, terrorism is a crime of humanity and will not be justified for any reason. Turkey is not a false state that would give up its principles by setting them up, compromise their historical rights and interests, sovereignty and property rights. If the point of being European is rootless and unidentified, let your concerns rest easy, we don't sit at the curved-legged unity table. The way to become European is to go up to Kandil, to meet the villains, to be fixed in Turkish hostility, and we'll say that we're enough because we don't need anyone. The European Union is not an unopposed entity that we have to be. Turkey's capital is an Ankara-based region and the world perspective that will, if necessary, burn in its own oil, if necessary, stand on its own feet, and, as a result, hand to no one. The Turkish nation will decide from Ankara itself, not from the political elite, who has framed Brussels for the future of the Republic of Turkey, who has a deep hatred for our national identity. The European mentality confirmed the hostility of Turkey and Turkey once again. On July 15th, the biased and twisted European mentality, which did not hear Turkey, did not see it, did not react to the coup attempt, unfortunately made a recommendation for the freezing of talks that interfered with Turkey's internal affairs. If we'd stopped being Muslim Turks, we'd have already been admitted to the European Union. Turkey is not the custodian and concentration camp of Europe. We have the will, we have the sovereignty, we have the authority, we have the mind of a state, we have an ancient and historical experience. Precious lawmakers held some talks in Cyprus for the solution, but the solution in Cyprus is magic. The meaning and meaning of the Greek word is yet to be seen in the darkness. In the town of Mont Cape, Switzerland, under the supervision of the United Nations, the five-day talks continued with no results. Cypriot talks are a land of grave doubt, land is a country, it is an honor, it will not be negotiated. It is essential to know, see, and confirm that this national principle is indispensable to Turkish Cypriotism. It is extremely urgent and important that a fair and lasting solution be reached in Cyprus talks, but it is wrong to abandon the Turkish country with compromises just to be a solution, to break up with our historical rights and interests at once, and it is impossible to approve of it. Against the Turkish community in Cyprus, there will be no agreement or credibility in our nation for any agreement that would undermine their achievements, disregard their sovereignty rights. Compromising one-sided and unbridled concessions in Cyprus to ensure peace and stability will narrow Turkish lives, save Turks from their native lands, and keep them away from the Mediterranean. It is the Turkish nation's right, the Turkish Cypriots' right to know what the secret talks will bring and what they will carry. Remember, Turkish Cypriots are an integral part of the Turkish nation, and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is a Turkish country. In a hurry, those who say, "Let there be a solution." If they bring Cyprus's deed and pass it over, they will not be able to answer for it, they will never tell our martyrs, those who have honored the Cyprus case for years. The National Movement Party, as so far as it has been, will follow closely the Cyprus talks, take notes, share with its nation, do democratic interventions. Members of parliament, as it is known, the International Student Evaluation Programme of the 15-year-old group, held by the Economic Co-operation and Development Organization OECD every three years to assess the information and skills of students in the 15-year-old group, reported that the joint examinations of the students in 2015 were held in 72 countries, including the OECD members of 35 countries, where students' reading skills were measured in mathematics and science, and Turkish students ranked 52 degrees in the science of science and reading skills in mathematics. Turkey is unfortunately far behind the OECD average in all three areas. However, the pride and awareness of Turkish nationalism, the ability to absorb our spiritual and cultural values, the ability to think, perceive and solve problems, has developed, is open to new developments, sense of responsibility and social sensibility and social sensitivity to the production of science and technology, the development of entrepreneurs, democrats, cultured and religious generations should be the main objective of our education policy. Now, the non-assigned teacher problem, which has turned into gangrene, must be resolved quickly. In our opinion, there must be no more unappointed teachers, and this ordeal must be ended once and for all. Moreover, the lack of teachers should be completely resolved, but there should be no compromises in justice. The adoption of contract teachers through the interview system also victimised several of our teachers who scored higher than KPS. The exclusivity of questions asked during the interview and the examination of political preferences have led to infamy. The popularity of nepotism in teacher's purchases, the pull-up of school principals, has made the national education all laggarded. There is a strong need to avoid such attitudes these days when we need unity and unity. It is imperative that the government act in accordance with justice and justice by taking the necessary measures on this matter. Precious lawmakers have witnessed constitutional debates for more than 200 years. The 1982 Constitution has been debated since it was adopted that it contained major deviations from a classical parliamentary system, and over 100 euros have been changed in the process. Turkey needs a new community contract and responsibility rests on all of us. In our opinion, especially after July 15th, this need became urgent. Nothing in Turkey will be as it was on July 14th, it will not be. Our nation's demand for a new breath, a new legal agreement is considerable. The National Movement Party has been looking forward to the prospect of the restoration or rewrite of the Constitution from the beginning. The Constitution is a consolidating community contract that regulates state-national relations according to democratic standards, establishes and balances the minimum rules of living together. In our view of constitutional studies, there is no change, no deviation, no difference in understanding. Whatever we said yesterday, we're on the same line today, wherever we were yesterday, we're at the same spot today. Our initiative on constitutional amendments, our will to resolve the actual mess and distortion, is solely due to our understanding of responsibility for the future of Turkey and the Turkish nation. Without law, democracy and state are on hold. If we don't want Turkey to move forward one step at a time towards disaster, we need to step in as a political institution and take precautions; talk, compromise, find a way out for the country and the nation. Sultan Vahardtin's daughter, Sabiha Sultan, was a separate fall in the memory of the Empire, but it was also Turkish, and today's republic is the property of the Turk. The Constitutional amendment text, which was agreed on by the Justice and Development Party, has also been discussed with this precision. It is not recommended to be removed from any part of our constitution, this is not a discussion area. The first four articles of our constitution are not subject to discussion. Looking at the relevant text, it would be understood that the execution was freed from bilateralism, that a strong parliament was formed, that a balance was established in the President's authority and responsibilities. The work is not about transition to the presidential system, but about limiting the powers that the presidency uses indefinitely and placing responsibility on the president. Parliament has been made stronger in legislation and control activities, with the possibility of judicial control in parallel. There is no need for a system and a regime debate. It is only a matter of eliminating the actual situation and the president being the head of the administration. The whole point of the National Movement Party is to run the law through this troubled and difficult process, to make the House effective, respected and powerful, to create solutions, and ultimately to comfort the country. Honourable lawmakers, there is a common and intense attack to cut the lifebloods of our country, to drain the resources of our destiny. Turkey's state and society life is threatened on the back of a knife. The Turkish nation's regression was not enough, the games that were staged in order to be intertwined, and then erased from history have been raging day after day. Turkey and its great Turkish nation's interests, peace and happiness are above all accounts for us. Homeland is our destiny, there will be no negotiation. It's our country's honor, it won't be left to the bastards. We are sworn, uncompromising, uncompromising, not to violate this saintly land of martyr blood, and the unbelievers and the illegitimates. As Ataturk the Great said, if it is the land, then the rest is for us. First, my country and my nation. The nationalist Movement Party, the forty-seven-year-old clan of Turkish politics, is determined to put its hand under stone, not under its country and nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll put you through, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0132par0050	Sir, we're going to extend your time, please pick it up.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0131par0051	While the honorable lawmakers end my words here, saying that we will vote for the budget as the National Movement Party Group, despite everything, I wish the 2017 budget would bring blessings to our sainted nation, and salute your grand delegation with my deepest respect and conversation.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0132par0053	Thank you, Mr. Bigataman. The second word on behalf of the National Movement Party Group belongs to Mr. Mehmet Günal. Here you go, Mr. Günal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0133par0058	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party in the closing session of the 2017 budget. I salute you and the great Turkish nation. My dear friends, for about a month and a half, we've shared our assessments and proposals on the budgets of all ministries, relevant institutions in the Plan and Budget Commission, and then on the General Assembly. We have also given you these issues in detail in our opposition to the addition of the budget presented to you. In addition, we have also expressed to you our criticism and proposals on how our budgetary rights have been sanctioned in our opposition to the 2015 Final Calculus Bill. Today I'm not going to discuss these problems over and over again, enough has been discussed. I'd like to present to you today, first of all, my proposals for a solution and our proposals for what we've said so far as the party. So I'd like to talk more about our future-oriented, forward-looking solutions and our view of the future. Mr. President, in the early years of the 21st century, there were years when some traditional alliances along with the globalization wind were disbanded, where developing technology was decisive on production, consumption, management and lifestyle, global capital reached unrestricted movement and efforts to reshape world order on the axis of multi-dimensional partnerships. Although globalisation is said to offer opportunities for the expansion and development of democracy on the basis of the establishment of common prosperity and happiness of humanity, the rule of law, the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, this process, including international terrorism, migration, ethnic conflicts, regional conflicts, regional double standards, hunger and poverty, the gap between rich countries and poor countries, and a number of problems in the name of democracy, and environmental disasters. The National Movement Party, who is aware of how these developments have threatened the world and the most strategic region in the world, is now seeing the outcome of the global threat that has led our country, our region, and humanity, as Turkey's National Movement Party has demonstrated in the past forty-seven years in its political scene, as it has demonstrated its decisiveness and policy when no one has yet perceived the development that threatens humanity and humanity. It has become more important in the process in which the democratic culture of maturity and reconciliation is dominated, exclusive and aberrant rhetoric and style, while Turkey's national and spiritual values are considered a common denominator. At this point, it is imperative that the issues be looked at not only in the framework of the political party, but in the framework of the consensus of political stance, principle, purpose and goal. It is the first requirement for Turkey and for all those who share similar sensitivities to move Turkey and the Turkish nation into the future to emerge from the depressed period that has passed through such an ideal for integration. With movement from this point, our party believes that the process of globalization can be introduced into a human environment and that it can become a global justice movement, that world benefits and technological possibilities can be used to serve the common future of all mankind, that the fundamental rights and freedoms of people are guaranteed, that the boundaries of culture and civilisations are drawn, and that the hatred and the seeds of hatred and hatred that are being planted may only be possible, instead of mutual respect, tolerance and understanding, and the development of co-operation based on co-operation, and the development of hunger and poverty to combat terrorism, and a common attitude for women and children's rights. The Nationalist Movement Party, whose power comes from holy, faith, principles, and Turkish nation, carries the claim to build and represent both the social centre and the public centre in politics. The Nationalist Movement Party is not a conflicter, it is a compromiser, not a separatist, not a fighter, not a pacifist, not a pacifist, not a separatist, not a hugger, not a separatist, not a separatist, but a pacifist, not a pacifist, not a pacifist, not a separatist, who strives to feed on peace, not on responsibility, demonstrates his claim by a political language that demonstrates the will to move Turkey and the Turkish nation into the future together. The National Party of Movement, by providing the broadest use of individual rights, envisions the access to a prosperous society by increasing investment, production and employment with strong industry, strong economy, strong democracy; along with these, national unity and integrity, the establishment of effective foreign policy, deterrent armed forces, the construction of a strong state; promoting the establishment of a more human rights, justice, sustainable development on a global level. A world ideal in which the Turkish nation and all humanity will live in peace and happiness can be achieved with the possibility of a new project of civilization based in Turkey. Turkey will be the main axis and attraction for the Turkish and Islamic world if it is a globally efficient and powerful and powerful country by combining its resources and capabilities with universal values. Thus, Turkey will be free of its national existence and historic mission and will become a global quarterback, with its wealth, its government experience, and its solemn stance. The vision of DP in global Turkey is a vision based on the realistic assessment of the potential our country has with its capabilities and resources. The National Movement Party aims to make it a regional and global power centre and become a leading country, with its resources and opportunities, such as historical and cultural buildup, geostrategic position, natural and human resources. The nationalist Movement put on the political agenda in the 1990s and presented it to the public as a project in 1999, making it a state policy by incorporating it into the Eighth Development Plan in 2001, making Turkey a leading country on the world's 100th anniversary of our republic, which was sadly interrupted by the inadequate performance of the ruling AKP administrations for the past 14 years. Turkey is also becoming more fragile in terms of macroeconomic sizes. If necessary measures cannot be taken, these fragilitys will result in surprising and traumatic consequences for the Turkish people. It is based on hot money flow and is an important risk factor for the future of Turkey's economy, as well as for investments and approaches based on the service sector, rather than information and technology, rather than heavy competitive investments. Competitive countries with a high, productive and dynamic economy can have more roles in regional and global politics. Turkey's recovery of such a healthy economy will be one of the most important issues that will affect the formation of years to come. In short, unemployment, poverty, lack of income distribution, irregularities in the educational system, inadequacies in the social security system, and corruption and corruption in all areas are major socioeconomic problems that stand before Turkey, especially terrorism. For this reason, the time our country lost in the period of 2023 will have to be compensated for the destruction of all areas and for these gaps. In 2023, Turkey could become a regional power and a global actor, and in 2053, it would become an effective global power and leader on a global scale in economic, social, political, technological and strategic fields, in the event of closing these gaps and rapidly implementing structural reforms needed to achieve this goal.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0134par0068	Mr. Günal, one moment, sir. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's been a complaint against the humming. Please, if there's a meeting to be made, let's be outside and listen to the preacher carefully. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0135par0071	Sir, I don't think they can hear you either. As the National Movement Party, our long-term strategy is to achieve the ideal for Turkey to become a global power and leader in 2053. With its own national values and historical values, its ability to solve problems, its ability to create politics, its ability to create a high, efficient state order, its resources, its resources, and its ability to implement an economic model, and its status in the global system, Turkey will be able to seal the world's politics and economic life in the 21st century. Mr. President, I've told you about the high-value lawmakers, their 2023, 2053 targets. But what must be done to reach them? I'd like to give you a brief discussion of these goals and then share with you our solution proposals. The National Movement Party, which has shaped its policies on the ground and universal level above, has always been before our nation with projects that will solve our country's problems, that will make Turkey a respectable, respected, well-developed country in the world. In our 2015 election declarations, some of our projects presented to the public in detail have been delivered to you from this platform and earlier from the Plan and Budget Commission and from different platforms. As a matter of fact, our basic projects among the solution proposals are the State and Management Reform in the Social Reconstruction Process, the Producing Economic Reform, the Anti-Responsibility Project, the Anti-Terror and National Union Project, the Facility of Anti-Corruption, Morality and Social Quality. Under these projects, we've been in public with some sub-projects and programs. Instead of ending the long-standing mental eclipse in Turkey, strengthening the will to live with a social understanding and disparaging its citizens, we have also brought to your attention some of the sub-projects that regulate the implementation of these main projects to create a state mind that values them. We also submitted our primary action plan to public attention, along with our election statement on Turkey's pressing issues that need to be resolved. In short, the National Movement Party has always shared its proposals of solutions with the public and adopted a constructive, guiding, compromised understanding of opposition for the country's future. As a matter of fact, we have proposed solutions to problems around the three main axes of our election statement. These were justice, peace and prosperity. Mr. Ismet Buyukataman has just mentioned some issues of peace and justice under the title of Justice. I'm going to try to address other economic and social problems, such as the establishment of macroeconomic stability, increasing production and fighting poverty, rather than the military and political part of the terrorism problem, in its economic and social dimension, ▪Refah. My dear friends, before we move on to matters under the heading of "Purity," I would like to share with you some of the issues that complete our views on the fight against terrorism. The long-term and stable, national and effective anti-terrorism policy that has been purged of daily political concerns must be developed and implemented, Mr. President has repeatedly passed on to both the authorities and the public, and we have passed it on to you over and over from the Council bench here. In this context, instead of the understanding of the fight that brought the terrorist to the center, the fight against terrorism must be considered a total struggle. While effectively fighting terrorism and terrorists, citizens must first be assured of the safety of lives and property and do not have the opportunity to be harmed. In the fight against terrorism, the unjust must be justified, the innocent must be separated from the guilty, and the struggle must be carried out decisively by the methods of the legal state. In addition to the security units' struggle, a struggle should be waged on the basis of the removal of economic, social, psychological, administrative, demographic and cultural factors, which are being exploited and therefore fueled by terrorism. In this scope, the development programme for the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian Region, which includes our proposals for solutions on economic and social issues, was presented by our President, State Bahlı Bey at the end of September with a press conference to the attention of the public. The main purpose of the program here is to ensure national unity and integration by increasing economic growth, social development and social reconciliation in 23 counties in our East and Southeast Anatolia regions. The implementation of a model of development, which all our citizens of the modern world are rightly benefiting from, is the basis of this program. The potential of our country will be activated, raising the prosperity of our people in these areas, and the difference in inter-state development will be met. For this fundamental purpose, we have envisioned four subroutines under the Development Programme for Eastern and Southeast Anatolian Region. The first is the Anti-Terror Program itself. In addition, we have a programme that includes rural development and rural development centres. The third, the final component of the participating and inclusive economic growth and this development programme, will be the resolving of regional development differences. On the one hand, these problems on economic and social issues will be resolved with these comprehensive programmes while fighting this terrorism. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, after this economic and social dimension of our East and Southeast Anatolian Development Programme, I'd like to share with you some of the proposals for the economic and social policies of the mp. The National Movement Party represents the integration of the world's economy into an external and competitive structure, among the leading determinants of regional and global development, the support of information production as a need for the information age, the efficient use of information by providing fast and easy transport, rather than an easy and speculative production economy, the establishment of technological development, innovation, efficiency and employment. Traditional export products must be replaced by high-velocity-value R&D and technology-oriented diversified products, and should be adopted by an industrial approach to promoting the processed product. Running the rules of the market economy, preventing monopoly and unfair competition, limiting the public's role in the economy to guiding, regulatory and controlling activities, stable, environmentally sensitive and employment-friendly and the implementation of an economic policy, supported by private sector dynamics and initiative. Rather than a sense of instability and outward-dependent growth, which is based solely on domestic demand growth and financed by hot money, strategies that dominate global markets, based on different products and market diversification, should be developed to dominate competitive, sectoral development. In this scope, money and currency policy should be followed to levels that will not lead to vulnerability in the current economy and to the need to maintain and maintain price stability for sustainable growth, and must be maintained by the Central Bank's free exchange dry policy. In order to achieve these basic goals, the MHP has proposed an economic programme that uses advanced technology, which monitors innovation, efficiency and employment, based on fair division of income, is to establish the competitive high production economy and to strengthen social tissue with its natural and human resources. Our main goal as an MPP is to increase the welfare of the people with an understanding of governance that protects the principles of equality, morality and justice that put people at the center of economic policies. In short, by 2023, a production structure with the power to compete on a global scale should be built, using resources, using advanced technology, creating high-velocity value and employment. Turkey's long-term strategy for the National Movement Party, Turkey, can only be achieved in 2023 with its goal of becoming a global power and superpower in 2050, with Turkey's natural and human resources and economic, social and technological opportunities in action and determination in the strongest possible way. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers -- these 2023 and 2053 global power goals and sub-projects have been studied in detail and available, and have been presented with your information before, but to achieve these goals, we must first change our understanding; then we can only achieve these goals by implementing radical structural reforms. As in the past years, we have been allowed to feel good about ourselves for a time, just by changing the base year or updating the method of computing, but our situation does not change. As you know, at the beginning of the week, growth figures were announced by the Turkish Statistical Agency. Under national accounts and compliance with the European system, a significant difference has been made between the old and the new series, with a change in national income computing methods. The biggest difference is, we're looking at 2013, where it appears, from 4.2 per cent to 8.5 per cent, or more than twice as much. The rate of growth in 2015 has been revised from 4 per cent to 6.1 per cent. Dear friends, with the change of base year, the economy has increased by about 20 per cent per person, per dollar and TL, and the GDP has increased from $720 billion to $861 billion. The number of trillions, let's say 1,9 -2 in the previous series, has risen to 2,338. Now, in the same way, per capita income has also increased from $9.257 to $11.014 in a new series, so our income has increased by about 20 percent. Of course, the revision study of national revenue calculations has shaken the credibility and credibility of the Turkish Statistical Agency, as we all speak here, since seasonal details and sectors' contributions have not been explained, and the growth has revealed 20 per cent computation at once. Because, why do I say that? Mr. Mehmet Aktaş said that total savings so far have not been measured properly, and according to the new calculation, the savings, which used to be around 15 per cent, are now around 24 per cent, and that we are in the middle league of savings. Now, dear friends, that's what we say. We're saying these things -- look -- a little bit more careful, we say, they haven't been explained, the details haven't been explained, but it's not right in this way. I'm afraid these statements are an even worse explanation for the institution's reputation. In short, Turkey's economic problems cannot be solved by shifting the base year and revisions. Turkey must return to its sources and implement structural reforms as soon as possible. Mr. President, after all these evaluations, I'm going to finish by talking about our national and spiritual values, our historical and cultural codes, about how we're going to achieve these goals. My dear friends, Turkey and the world dynamics, if we act on the idea of understanding and interpretation of the age in Turkish, praising the nation and making the state a permanent state, then we can build the future global power Turkey together. The fulfillment of this goal will only be possible with the support of national unity and unity, and the establishment of national unity with common values and the understanding of a nation built on the past and a joint future march. The Turkish nation is the name of a nation that lives, lives and carries the legacy of Turkish Islamic tradition and a glorious civilization, and of a nation that meets in history and culture hoops, and Turkey is the name of the land that holds that legacy. The Turkish nation's ability to walk into a common future will be proportional to the rise of rich common values among members of the nation. What Turkey needs most today is to ensure a national consensus and national excitement that will provide a joint march for the construction of strong Turkey, through the integration of the divided nation and the restructuring of the damaged brotherhood law. In Turkey, the basic dynamics of reconciliation between all segments and actors must be national and spiritual values, modern, democratic principles, the rule of law and the way of rule and governance based on human rights. The vision of the Global Power Turkey, which can be reached with a common determination and will be sustainable, is the long-term strategic goal of the National Movement Party, whose roots are an understanding based on the historical and cultural realities of the Turkish nation, which embraces the future and considers it a mission to establish a new Turkish-based civilization and a new world. My dear friends, when we look back on the past, the Turkish Islamic civilization developed after the Turkish acceptance of Islam as a result of your understanding of science, which balances the mind and transport. This understanding, which balances the mind and transports science and art, continues with valuable thinkers such as Buhara, Samarkant, Maturit, and lays the foundations of a civilization that will spread throughout the world, with Turkish Muslimism, which is symbolised by Imam Maturidî. In fact, in the background of the trauma that we experienced after the July 15 coup attempt today, we have to get away from that understanding. Instead of this understanding of Turkish Islam, which has laid the foundations of Turkish Islamic civilization and has a sense of understanding and understanding, I'm thinking that maybe if we hadn't pursued the lie of Westernism, the representatives of wild globalization, we might not have been able to deal with it today. We need to learn from what we've been through, get back to our roots, get back to the sense of Hanefi Maturidial Islam, the understanding that balances the mind and transfer, the understanding that values knowledge, science and art, but that does not break down from their national and spiritual values, and we can reassert Turkish Islamic civilization together. When we look back on the past, we can consider the transitional products of Joseph Has Hadjib, Kutadgu Bilig, the Court of Mahmud of Kashgar, Lâgat-it-Turk, Atabetu/l-hatak, and the Court of His Majesty's Court of Wisdom in this framework. Here's the Turkish-based march of civilization, which takes its foundations from our historical values, the first step is to make it a proud and self-reliant, standing on its own strength, head-to-head, full of food, and free individuals. My dear friends, in this scope, and in light of all my assessments, I repeat to you and to the great Turkish nation that the Nationalist Movement Party has said that it is in our nation's favor. Whatever the National Movement Party wants, it's in the best interest of our nation. MHP isn't looking for Ikbalin, it's looking for future. MHP is a defender of the nation and the country's cause. MHP is the heir to the thousands of years of Turkish Islam, and we are as Turkish as Mount God, as Muslim as Mount Hira. And MHP is our Turkish body, our Islamic spirit. A soulless body becomes a corpse. It is a representative of an understanding that says: The nationalist Movement Party is ready to make every effort and sacrifice in Turkey to achieve its goal of making superpowers in 2053. The Nationalist Movement Party is ready to go on a new march of civilization based in Turkey with our entire nation, to bring Turkey above the level of the confluences of Ataturk. However, I would like to point out that because we feel that the central management budget of 2017, which I have mentioned from the beginning, is insufficient to reach these goals, we will vote, but we will support our nation in any way that will benefit from the constructive, guiding and compromised opposition. I salute all of you with my faith that the 21st century will become the Turkish century, and never, as Huntington said, the conflict of this century will determine the human-based Turkish Islamic civilization, not the conflict of civilization, but the good budget.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0136par0105	Thank you, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0137par0106	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0136par0107	Mr. Mahmoud, I'm going to discuss this matter in the context of this discussion, and I've done the necessary examination, so please show some patience. The first statement on behalf of the individuals is from Mr. Ramadan Can. Here you go, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0138par0112	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I wish our budget to be prosperous and fruitful. I'd like to thank the members of the Plan and Budget Commission, our Finance Minister and Government, again, the opposition party spokesman and our beloved nation, who have contributed without insulting them. As I begin to speak, I wish all our martyrs God's mercy, health and pleasure to our veterans. Thank you, dear nation, for giving the AK PARTY the 15th time its budgetary authority. Our beloved nation is the strongest judge who can distinguish between good and evil from right and wrong. Our people are faithful, our people are wise, our people do not need guardians, guardians, or guardians. The people don't know, the people don't understand, the nation can't make a decision. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our budget is a national and domestic budget, our budget is a budget for justice, rights. With Sunni, Alevi, Turk, Kurd, gard, song, and song, the budget of the oppressed is a budget that frightens the oppressors of the world, a budget that gives the oppressed and orphans trust, a rich budget. So, again, I thank our Prime Minister and our government for bringing such a budget. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, well, how does the nation authorise the AK PARTY to make the 15th budget? There's so much going on here... I'm a fourth-term MP -- every semester, the opposition speakers come in, their budgets are bad, the AK PARTI administration is bad, but whatever the wisdom, the saint nation, gives us the authority to make the 15th budget, the opposition to the other side. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) I think we have little to thank for our nation, praise be to God. Yes, Turkey is not one of any countries. It is a great country of central importance among the world's states, with history and civilization. It's built on the garden of great empires. The purpose of the AK PARTY was to serve people and people. So, we're grateful to everyone who's ever worked, who's put a stone on stone for the country, who's worked for the country. We've made a statement, and the EC PARTY has walked to power with this determination, and we've always said, people have built this party, we've put the signs on it. But we have to see that, as the poet Orhan Veli put a stone on the stone for this country. First of all, everything that has been accomplished has been done by our beloved nation. If we say that we've broken the record of the republic in every field, it's actually the crowd that broke the republic's record. (AK PARTY) So, the EC PARTY, which underestimated the distance Turkey has come from, objected to that, along with the nation. In 1945, when Germany, Japan, was destroyed, in the 1970s, closed regimes were ending, but in all this time, Turkey wasted its energy on internal issues, coups, military wards, terrorism, coalitions. In the 1930s, even though Gazi Mustafa Kemal instructed his governments to develop the aircraft industry for the Bosphorus bridge, the ministers ignored and failed to do so. Look, now, I'm wondering what the Republican People's Party would have said if Gazi Mustafa Kemal were on duty, if he were alive, against those who oppose the bridge, against the third airport. As Idris Küçükömer and the late writer Kemal Tahir, who also followed the philosophy of the Republican People's Party, said, Turkey also represented left and left. Therefore, right now the Republican People's Party must reconsider its ideology. Later, the coups of our time, the Republic is in danger, the secularism is gone. Our nation would face the paranoias, coalitions, then the PKK plague, terrorism and the vile coup. Unfortunately, the PKK, DAIH, and so on, the young bodies, the future of our nation, the sweat of our young people, billions of dollars, our dreams, our excitement. That's what the AK PARTY object to, valuable MPs. If these processes didn't exist, wouldn't Turkey be at the top of the world ranking today? But let's never despair, never give up hope. With Allah's permission, we will succeed, even if it is late. We say we're not jealous. We think we can do this together, as all political party groups. That's why the AK PARTY showed its vision of 2023, 2053 and 2071. Hopefully, we'll all do it together. They always asked the AK PARTY: "Well, you're going to do it, but how will you do it? Where is the source? They ask the same question today, and they ask the same question when they are set up. Yes, that's the answer that we gave that day, and today we're giving that answer: The source is AK PARTY, the source is Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, please don't let anyone take up politics by creating a weakness between his people and his state by creating and producing fears, by breaking the spirit of the nation, by threatening society, by putting people in politics, no one should take up the government and the nation. He's a master of the nation, he's a master of the nation, and he's a servant. The national will cannot be harmed or restricted by any political psychiatric effort. If you want to produce politics, here's the challenge, people, you're going to go to the nation, you're going to demand the values of the nation, you're going to have fundamental rights and freedoms, you're going to get your thesis, you're going to get approval, you're going to get power, you're going to draw a red line between terrorism and politics. Otherwise, people and history will draw you. On the other hand, the drama of tension has been staged in our country. Their actors were the Turkish contractors of national evil focal points. On December 17th and 25th, on July 15th, they made the final scene of the theatre, but our beloved nation, at the cost of their lives, at the cost of their blood, removed this theatre from the vision. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've come to this day in unity and brotherhood, we've all walked together into the future, we'll all walk together. With Allah's permission, we will crush neither the DAİŞ nor the derivatives. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] We're all going to the public, we're asking for government from the community. We're telling the nation that we're going to solve your problems, raise your level of prosperity, make Turkey one of the most respected countries in the world, expand fundamental rights and freedoms. That's why people vote for us, and we vote for us, and we vote for you, and we sign a contract with the nation, and we get the authority. Some of us are living in opposition, but I ask you, for God's sake, what nation gives the authority to support the murder networks that kill hundreds of innocent people by blowing up bombs in the bodies of 14-15-year-olds? What nation supports the murder networks that killed our police officer, our soldier, who was assigned to protect him? Again, what nation asks its teeth to insult the nation's bench, the nation's nation, the nation's country, the state's back, the politicians he paid by raising his taxes? Dear lawmakers, what nation wants you to bring water to the mill of evil centers that want to divide Turkey? What nation authorizes the funerals of our soldiers, our police, our citizens, the murderers who shed their blood? A nation like this doesn't have that kind of authority, but you do, you betray the trust of the nation. We told you it's either politics or betrayal. We all lived together in the 1990s, and the government learned from bitter experiences, but you did not learn. Don't you guys ever think about doing accounting, and why did we make a mistake amongst yourselves? You're under arrest, are the MPs arrested? Would that happen? Of course the MP is not to be arrested, not to be arrested, not to be in democracies, but you're a representative of the nation, do you have any empathy? Where did we go wrong? What in God's name do you think of young Kurdish children climbing the mountains? What do you do when Kurdish children die, Turkish children die, innocent souls die? If you're sincere, during the AK PARTY, under the leadership of our leader, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, there was an environment created by taking all kinds of risks, drinking almost hemlock poison, but the national evil centers were disturbed. What in God's name did you do but carry water into their pool? Members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our political parties, our individual MPs have to maintain the dignity of parliament and nation, the unity of the nation, the unity of the nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0139par0137	Mr. Can, can you wrap it up, please?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0138par0138	Yes, it's about to pass the time of choice, you'll either say, "You'll be with the nation, you'll be against terrorism, or you'll pay the price by betraying it, unfortunately, you'll be a traitor. But we prefer politicians, not people who never, never betray them. Go ahead, make your choice, swear to the people. Really, didn't you get the authority from the public? Praise, support the killing networks that murder innocent people with a gun in their hand... if you're afraid of Kandil... the state will protect you if you have to, but be sincere, sincere. Courage, manliness, courage, humanity, courage and heroism is the ability to stand up to terrorism, not to be subcontractors. Either you put a distance between politics and politics, or you resign with honor, wishing our budget to be good and blessed, and God help us, and I salute you all again, with the respect of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0139par0140	Thank you, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0140par0141	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0139par0142	I assume you have a commitment.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0140par0143	Yes, I have a request.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0139par0144	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0140par0147	Mr. President, not only are you being arrested because the MPs who are currently under arrest are HDP MPs, and why are you being arrested? Why are you doing this? We have repeatedly expressed to many people here in Parliament why our representatives are being tried for their speech, their speech, their propaganda activity, but no criminal has the right here to say or say or do anything about the prosecution of the people who are being tried, whether it is a guardian or not. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me just finish my last sentence. As I said, no criminal -- if there's still a Constitution, if there are rules of law -- has the right to argue here about the people we have to obey -- and to target them, to execute them without a trial. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0141par0153	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group. Now, on behalf of the government, it belongs to the Justice and Development Party's President and Parliamentary Group Chairman, İzmir MP Prime Minister Buli Yıldırım. Here you go, Prime Minister. [[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY]] You're on an hour.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0142par0162	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. I salute our fellow saints with love and respect. I pray that our central management budget 2017 and the 2015 Final Accounting Law will be a blessing to our country, to our nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] During the talks, I'd like to thank your deputies and all our deputies, Plan and Budget Commission and members, our Finance Minister, our ministers and all the experts, especially Mr. President, who contributed to the development of our budget in 2017, with their contributions and warnings. I'd also like to thank our political parties for their contribution to the presidents and the members of the group. At the very beginning of my words, I remember with mercy, with gratitude, with gratitude, with praise, and with praise to our veterans, whose place will be heaven, and with respect and thanks to our veterans, who have put forth their lives against the BTÖ, the separatist terror organizations, who have fought heroically and died for it. Our country, Turkey, is a country that has great goals and is marching towards the future. We should be very proud of Turkey, our flag, our nation. I praise my Lord for giving this holy nation the opportunity to serve. Budget talks are the text that sums up the whole agenda of a country, talks. In these talks, as the year we left behind has been carefully assessed, our future goals are to discuss, assess, and decide how and where to use Turkey's resources, what priorities to spend them on, what to do with them. Planning the future right is of great importance in society and state life as it is in human life. AS AK PARTY governments, we have the right happiness of coming to this day by fulfilling all the goals we set on our journey to the 100th anniversary of our republic, 2023. Every step we take is for the bright future of our country, the peace and prosperity of our nation. We're working hard to entrust our Republic with a strong democracy to the next generation. In the spirit of unity, we make a great effort to strengthen our country with democracy. With strong political will, we strive to maintain stability at the same time and keep Turkey among the world's powerful economies. Everything is for Turkey, everything is for our nation, and we keep going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're close to the end of a year of hardship. Hopefully, next year, 2017 will be a much more spacious and brighter year. Because 2016 was not an easy year for both the world and Turkey. Traitors, blood-soaked terrorist organizations have shown their dirty and dark intentions at every turn. The traitors who sought life, peace of society, brotherhood, our unity have added new to their bloody killings. They thought they were gonna turn us against each other, they wanted to break our sisterhood law, but they didn't make it, they'll never make it. We became national in the face of terror, we became united, we became Turkey together. On July 15th, when this Veterans Assembly was attacked by the world's lowest attack, you, our valued lawmakers, showed an exemplary picture of unity. Our MPs, along with our citizens, have taken possession of the House in the face of that vile attack; and you have not delivered the house of the people to the scoundrels, to the traitors. Those who wanted to hit democracy lost, the national will won; those who wanted to overthrow the legitimate government lost, the national will won. The heart of the national will has been bombed, the President has been targeted by terrorists, by traitors in his military suit. Bombs have been dropped on our citizens who have come out to defend democracy and freedom with our security forces. Our people never blinked to give their life to defend their country. That dark night, especially the nation, our President, our government, has lit up the decisive stand for democracy our political parties have established together. Our MPs, our prosecutors, our NGOs, our patriotic police, and our military, our workers, our civil servants, our tradesman, our 79 million nations were up that night. On that dark night, we became seven to seventy, we became one; we held democracy and order together. On that day, the common language, the common attitude, again registered the national will. On that day, we became a nation again, and we established a new national agreement, and the whole world admired the glorious, glorious resistance of the Turkish nation against this vile attempt. On August 7th, Istanbul Yenikapı also opened Turkey's bright door to the future at the end. The spirit of the new door brought with it a new understanding of terror, a new compromise. Millions of people in Yenikapi Square, more than 30 million of our people in the squares of 81 provinces, held watch over democracy until morning for a month. So we've shown the world that terror and violence will never reach its goal. Today we show the same unity, unity and solidarity. On December 10th, in the face of the great suffering we experienced in Istanbul, we were once again in our Parliament with our parties. As a matter of fact, the other day, we met with Mr. President of the Main Opposition Party, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, Mr. President of the National Movement Party, Bahçeli. The issue of the fight against terrorism and terrorism is the rest of the process. With its understanding, we have come to a consensus that we should be one against all kinds of terrors, that we should take a common position. Once again, I'd like to thank the honorable presidents in the presence of my people. The whole world has seen that terror in no way can separate this nation. With his power and opposition, we are always together in the face of terror, hand in hand, shoulder in shoulder. We're looking at terrorism, terrorism, politics. Terror will never be able to capture or capture Turkey. Terrorists will not be able to remove Turkey from the democratic and legal line. Thanks to our nation's firm stance, the evil centers that sow hatred and hatred will surely be doomed to extinction. Those who want to break the law of a thousand years of brotherhood, no matter what they do, no matter what low methods they resort to, their end is loss, and they will be doomed to failure. Mr. President, in the face of terrorism, Turkey will continue to grow, develop, solve its problems. The separatist terrorist organizations and the terrorist organization that attempt to divide our country should know that there is no power to destroy the unity of this holy nation. We are proud of all of our heroic, valiant, fighting against terror, our security forces, our police, our soldiers, our guards, our gendarmes, our guards. They deserve all the credit they can get. As a state, as a government, as a nation, we stand by them with every opportunity. The solidarity that you put aside your political ideas is the best of all prayers for our martyrs, the greatest support for their fallen relatives. All terrorist organizations are the same, all enemies of humanity, no religion, no faith, no sanctity. We will surely bring terror to its knees in unity, in brotherly solidarity. Terrorist organizations will never come between the state and society. Our government and our nation will never, ever allow it. Our whole goal, our entire cause, is the establishment of democracy and the state of law for our country. Our whole case is the peace, happiness, safety of 79 million of our citizens, 81 of our provinces. Dear President, the esteemed MPs are the priority demand of the entire community to get rid of the Constitution on September 12th. This is an argument over 34 years. It's been discussed enough and it's matured. The entire political institution agrees that this Constitution, the product of the coup of September 12th, must now be put on the shelf. At the beginning of the promises made to our citizens by political parties in the election squares, the Constitutional amendment has been made. Now, it's time to fulfill that promise we made to the people. It is time to resolve the debates of the constitution and the management system that has occupied the agenda for a long time. In Turkey, the focus of custody has been trying to lead our nation to economic, political, social instability -- a strong, stable Turkey they never, ever wanted. For 14 years, we've fought relentlessly against these centers with the power we've taken from the nation. As we fought this challenge, we also carried out the services, projects, which our country, our nation, has longed for for for many years. We made our human face smile, make life easier, improve its quality of life. As you all know, because of the 367 inventions presented before us, we couldn't elect the President, but we had decided on a referendum in 2007. As a result, our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, has been elected President by the nation's votes. Of course, the contradictions in our governance system, which is not compatible with the elected presidential model, have also come to light. In the current situation, change in the Constitution and the administration system has become a priority. As the AK PARTY Group, we've taken action to carry out whatever is on our part in this matter. In simultaneous times, we repeated our constant calls to our opposition parties. The Republican People's Party, the Republican People's Party, the EC PARTY met for a limited change in minimum partnerships; our experts, our friends, carried out a study. It's not a secret that we disagree with the Republican People's Party about the management system. The Republican People's Party is the oldest party in our history; it has always defended democracy, freedoms, fundamental rights and freedoms. Of course, it's important, but all of this shouldn't be a promise. Democracy for constitutional change, our search for reconciliation has brought us to a point. In the process, the demand for this issue, including the resolution of the Constitution and system issue shared with the public earlier in October by the leader of the National Movement Party, has gained a new dimension, and has recently been handed over to the Supreme Assembly by our 316 MPs as the AK PARTI Group, starting from that day, to change the system that EC PARTI experts have worked to find, to make the current structure in line with the Constitution. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] While the speaker here discussed this issue, the highly valued representative of the Republican People's Party suggested what would happen to this change, although it was not in any way our President, who would be behind this amendment, the Constitution? From this point forth, the AK PARTY group will have 316 signatures on the back of this Constitution. (AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers) The National Movement Party will be behind this Constitution, which has an unpolitical understanding of resolving the country's problem. (AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers) Behind this Constitution is 79 million citizens if the Parliament goes before the nation when it approves. Of course, this door is wide open to the main opposition party. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] The main duty of politics and politicians is to take on the burden to solve the country's problems, to pave the way for the country. His problems...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0143par0188	Mr. Prime Minister, you didn't count our votes. So we don't have a vote?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0142par0189	Sir, everyone has the right to vote.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0143par0190	You open the door there, you close it to us.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0142par0191	Transferring problems to the future can't be a political method. The AK PARTY has not transferred problems to grandchildren in its 14-year power, but has been able to solve them. [[THE AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers ranked (Bravo!) The voices, the applause!]] This offer is in the discretion of our House. The High Council will discuss it, assess it, give its approval, and our great nation will decide. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I would also like to share this information with you: The proposal for a change includes a large portion of our work as three parties at the beginning of the process. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to express that the main opposition Republican People's Party has agreed to the amendment. Dear lawmakers, what's going on with the constitutional amendment, these will be discussed in the coming days, and they will be discussed in full detail. I'm not going to go into matter and stuff like that. But basically, as president of the AK PARTY Group that's prepared this proposal, I'd like to share a few issues with you here, with the Supreme Assembly. In the newly brought management system, the forces have clearly established the separation. The job of offering the law, making the law, has been left entirely under the authority of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Legislature and execution will be responsible to the public separately. Elections will be held every five years, parliamentary elections and the election of the President will be the same day. In this way, each election will have a strong and solitary political power, which is called constant stability, constant power. The executive decision process will accelerate very quickly. The president will have used the authority to execute as head of state. The president, who uses his executive authority, will also carry out his responsibility. It's become an accountable system where it gets the legitimacy of law and execution from the nation, because it's responsible for the nation. Contrary to some debates, we're talking about a constitution that strengthens the political institution even more. Because political parties are an integral part of our democracy. With this system, political parties will play a more active role in the election of the President as well as in the establishment of parliament. We are happy with the amendment of the Constitution and the presidency system to make democracy, stability, national will even stronger. The goal is to strengthen our democracy, the state of law with the principle of separation of forces. The regime change has basically become empty and meaningless debates about the axis shift. Turkey's axis is clear, its path is clear. Turkey's path is the path of troubled civilizations. (AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers) It is the path shown by Gazi Mustafa Kemal (Ghazi) and the regime debates were closed and ended in 1923. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] The Commission is open to the opinion and contribution of all our parties in the time leading from the General Assembly process to the public vote. With the approval of our parliament and our people, with the support of our country's political stability, the Supreme Assembly is capable of making, making, and carrying out a constitutional amendment. Good luck to our country, our nation and our republic. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are undoubtedly the biggest economic resources, political and democratic stability for our country. We will maintain stability like the light of our eyes. We'll never give up our country's future goals for short-term gains until we're stuck in the blind spots of politics. Turkey has lost much from weak rulings, instability. Aside from the one-party period, we've established 45 governments in 60 years since the single-party period; the government's mandate is only 16 months. If Turkey had a normal democratic stability line, it would have had 15 governments in 60 years, not 45. No outsider can establish a stable trust relationship with Turkey in this picture. The most important feature of the world's powerful countries, however, is economic and political stability. This nation no longer has the patience to lose, let alone its years, its months, and its day. Since 2002, Turkey has come to this day with major obstacles to various antidemocratic custody initiatives. With our people, we brought our country out of a dark tunnel and into the present. We can't go back here, we can't give up our winnings. By maintaining stability, we will march to new goals, crowning our breakthroughs with greater breakthroughs. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, foreign policy and international politics, unfortunately, are unable to establish a justice axis in our region and in the world. The strong do not observe the measure of truth and justice. Unfortunately, the United Nations can't establish global peace, can't do its job as referee. The competition among the strong threatens the future of humanity altogether. For us, every human being is the essence of the universe. It's like killing a man killed all mankind. No material goal is more important than a single person's life. The year 2016 was as important and sad as it was for our country in the world. In our nearby geography, in our region, there has been the biggest wave of migration since World War II. Over 12 million Syrian people, Iraqi people, oppressed, victims have to switch places, while we welcome close to 3 million Syrians, Iraqis, in our homes, we welcome them. Since June 14th, when the internal disturbances began in Iraq, 200,000 of them were Christians and Muslims, we have also housed Iraqi guests here in Turkey. Syria has suffered for years, a drama is happening, a crime of humanity is being committed. In recent times, we could not be indifferent to the cries of Aleppo, the images reflected in the news. We entered a major diplomatic move to heal the wounds of our brothers and sisters in Aleppo immediately. We've put our negotiations with our president and our government's initiatives to a positive point, and we've created a way to free the oppressed people from the trap. In the eyes of the world, throughout history, they surrounded this city, which was home to civilizations, and slaughtered the people of the city without saying "children." Under the attack of the regime and its supporters, civilians remain completely vulnerable. To the east of Syria, there was almost a life market in a six - mile area where tens of thousands of people were imprisoned. Thousands of families on the run are miserable on the streets. As a result of these contacts, a partial ceasefire was set. The evacuation of the civilians in Aleppo has begun. Up until now, more than 7,500 civilians have been rescued from Aleppo, from the midst of the fire, from hell, and have been transported to their places prepared in Idlip. At the same time, as the Republic of Turkey, we have begun preparations for 80,000 immigrants in the first phase of the AFAD and Redbear. First, a tent city of 10,000 will be provided with all the basic needs, such as health and shelter. It's almost a race to help Aleppo, one of our NGOs. I want to thank all of our NGOs, who are volunteering, for not being silent about Aleppo's cry for help. But I regret to say that these pains, these cries, these massacres, many countries of the world are just watching, just as they were in Gaza, the Balkans before. Aleppo has already registered as a black mark on the history of this century. As Turkey, we are in favor of cooperation, without talking, without talking, without talking to all the countries of the world. Our basic philosophy in our foreign policy is to reduce hostility, increase friendship. So we normalized our relations with Russia, normalizing our relations with Israel. In Iraq, we launched Operation Firat Shield to end the ongoing human drama in Syria; we took precautions to prevent an ethnic cleansing movement in Sakika, Musul, Syria. Mr. President, our position in the region, especially in our foreign policy as Turkey, is very clear. In Iraq, what we say is that Mosul must be cleansed of DEAŞ. To do so, we gave the training of the Mujahideen of Ninova to the camp of Başika, and Gedu. We've also offered to support the Iraqi security forces. We're part of the operation, along with Pesmerge forces and coalition forces. Our sensitivity here is to prevent Mosul from becoming an ethnic massacre by some Shiite militias, as well as by the removal of Telafer. The demographic structure here will change. This is our red line. Mosul must be the Mosulians, constantly; the building in Telafer will never be changed. And for Syria, our vision is very clear. As Turkey, we have no problem with Syrian territorial integrity. Syria must have territorial integrity, Syria must have Syrians. It is not possible in Syria that the regime that enters the blood of more than half a million unprotected people will survive. Surely our greatest goal is to ensure that the new government will be formed to represent all ethnic structures that constitute Syria, and not be dragged back into instability. The Firat Shield is never an expansion, an invasion is not an act. The purpose of the Fırat Shield is to clean up and eliminate threats from our southern borders to our country, to ensure the safety of our people's lives and property. Thank God, at this point, over 2,000 kilometers of all the terror elements have been wiped out of DEAŞ, YPG, NYD, and over 17,000 immigrant Syrian brothers in our country have moved back here. Our issue is not with Kurds living in Iraq, Syria, we have no issue with Kurds; our issue is with Kurds, Arabs, Turks, Turkmen, and the PKK that disturbs their homes by terror, and its extensions are with the PYD and the YPG. (EC PARTY and Ministers' Council of Ministers) This should be known for sure. Sometimes it's a matter of being told to the world's public in a different way, as if it's trying to create the perception that we are enemies to the Kurds in Syria, Iraq. Dear MPs, what I'm going to say here is that they're a bunch of terrorists, terrorists, and they're never, never, ever in our favor, no matter what they call them, no matter what they call them. (EA/DG) We know that the friendly and ally America has been in business with the PYD for some time now with the YPG. We've made it very clear that we're uncomfortable with this. What we're saying is that using a terrorist organization to destroy another terrorist organization is the greatest lack of insight. So, after you destroyed the DEA, which one would you use to destroy that terror organization? You used the Taliban to finish Al Qaeda, now that the Taliban have caused you trouble, how will you destroy it? So, when the road is near, hopefully, the new management of America will return from this corrupt mistake and will give an early ear to the warnings of Turkey, which has been a friend and ally for many years. My dear brothers, the matter of Cyprus is a matter that has been on the agenda for a long time, and our position in Cyprus is very clear. If there is a solution in Cyprus, it must be a solution to fair governance, transformative presidency, to respect both sides' rights, law, territorial rights, property rights, and to ensure the effective garantism of the Republic of Turkey. Of course, the solution will surely and surely be a decision made by our relatives who live in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there are also a lot of talks about European Union-Turkey relations these days. As you know in European Union-Turkey relations, there are ups and downs, over 50 years, since the 1960s, Turkey has been a country on its way to membership in the European Union. During the EC PARTY period, the decision was made to begin full membership negotiations in particular, and significant distances have been made, but at this point, the European Union unfortunately entered into a confusion. The main problem here is to include Turkey in the election campaign to satisfy election concerns and the willingness to win elections when it comes time for the European Union's politicians to vote. As it is known, there will be elections for the presidency of the government in five European Union countries. Thus, in the coming process, Turkey will be able to talk much again in Europe. We favour all the democratic values of Europe. Not just for Europe, but for our country, for our people, for democracy, for human rights, for structural reforms. What we're uncomfortable with is a double standard. We're not in favor of double standards. The example is that when France makes an extraordinary decision, it is respectful, concerned about the coup in Turkey; when the State of Emergency has a decision, we are concerned. They say, "We are concerned." It's a double standard, Turkey won't accept it. Because of this double standard understanding of the EU, we too are concerned about the EU's departure. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Hopefully, after all this, there will still be leaders in the EU who still have vision, who think about the future of the union. Turkey has stood by every promise it has made to this day. Now is the time to stand by the promises of Europe, the European Union, the time to lift the visa, the time to update the Customs Union; the time to send help to immigrants, refugees. It's time for action, not words. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the good lawmakers, the economy is important. The orators here have made extensive assessments of the economy, and we thank them. We've had a major growth performance in the economy in the last 14 years, and I want to express that, of course, depends on how you present the numbers. It's not possible to make numbers dance, reverse the numbers, read the numbers, change the facts in the economy, change what's going on. What do the numbers say? What do they say? What do the artifacts say? Let's take a look at this: during the period of the alleged PARTI powers in Turkey, sir, growth has fallen below previous times. I wonder if that's the case, we should take a look at this. So, let's look at the growth figures: when we look at the global crisis after 2010-2015, our economy has grown by 7.4 per cent; Turkey's economy has grown by 5.9 per cent between 2003 and 15 per cent; based on 2016, it has also grown 5.6 per cent. How much for the world growth? I'm saying the average of the world, 4.3 percent of those dates. Is it 4.3 percent or 5.9 percent? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey's share of the world's trade was less than five hundred and ninety-six percent now. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Sir, this is where the budget goes to interest. How much of the budget went to interest? If you say it in numbers, it's something else, if you say it in proportions, it's something else. It's the proportions that matter. In 2002, 43 per cent of the budget goes to interest, we come to 2015, this time 10.5 per cent of the budget goes to interest. From 43 per cent to 10.5 per cent. We came to 2016, 8.9 per cent went to interest. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now I'm asking: what's 43 percent, what's 8.9%? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let's also say the rate of national income: 14.8 per cent of interest in 2002. What happened in 2016? 2.4%. That's it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yeah, well, if the interest had continued at 43 percent, we would've paid more, the difference would've been more, so there would've been a lot more money for us to invest, for health care, for education, for transportation, for social benefits. Now, what happened? I mean, what happened when he went for interest? Look, I just told you. 43 per cent in 2002, 8.9% in 2016. Eighty-six pounds of the $100 tax goes to interest, dear friends, $86. How much is it now? Eleven lira goes to interest. What do we do with the rest? We build divided roads, we build tunnels, we build bridges, we build hospitals, we build schools, we build stadiums, and we do the work that the country needs, the people need. Now, we all know that divided roads save lives in Turkey. By the way, Mr. Kesci, I know you're interested in transportation projects, communications projects, but the split way is no different. It's not just us using the route, we're using Turkish; it's the divided road. The roads we call divided roads. The roads we call highways are highways with two arrivals. So the amount we've spent so far on divided roads is 130 billion dollars. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) For the 130 billion-dollar routes we've spent, we've traveled 18,500 kilometers, but there's not only a road, there's 89 kilometers of tunnels, there's 311 kilometers of viaducts, there's art structure, there's vents. Let's do a little math here: the savings of time and fuel from divided roads within a year are 20 billion dollars, and I'm just talking about two pens. Also, because the air was less exhausted, there were no stops, so 3.5 million tons of carbon dioxide gas were not released into the atmosphere and prevented environmental pollution. Not enough, but there were 62 percent reductions in car accidents, fatal accidents, after divided roads. What did we do? We divided the roads, saved lives, divided the roads, united the nation. We divide the roads, we don't divide Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So, that's what we've done with the money that we've saved for interest: we've built the railways... the fast train to Ankara-Konya, the fast train to Ankara-Istanbul, the Ankara-Sivas-Yozgat speed train is going on at all speeds, Konya-Karaman is running out, construction of Karaman-Uluksla-Msin, the Ankara-Afyon-Izmir line is being built. There's plenty more. I'm running out of time, I've got three minutes; I'll leave it here. As a dam, we've built 128 dams in fifty-three years, not the ponds, not the 30m body height and the dam above. Among them are dams with the world's highest body height, not Turkey's, close to 300 metres. We've built 411 dams against 128. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've raised our qualified bed count from 6 to 50 percent. Not only that, we finally opened 270,000 new classrooms in education and reduced our number of students to less than 25 degrees outside of the major cities. The goal is to increase pre-school education to 100 per cent by 2019; the goal is to go to one regime until 2019; in the morning, at noon, at one tedrisat. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) There are many other examples. I've got this much left, but I'm going through all this, and I'm really running out of time. Of course, when it's too much work, time isn't enough.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0144par0243	Mr. President will give you time.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0142par0244	Now, it's up to the president's discretion.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0145par0245	We have to stay here until morning.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0142par0246	I don't want to waste your time. So, dear lawmakers, for this country, of course, for everyone who has ever laid stone upon stone for Turkey, who has worked so far, I thank you on behalf of our nation. That's a loyalty debt, and we have to do it. My dear brothers, we must say that now, there is an economic crisis, as of November 8th, there is a global fluctuation in the markets. This surge is not Turkey's crisis. 2000-2001 was Turkey's crisis. The crisis, which began with 2008-2009, is a global crisis. In 2006, we had a similar crisis. That was our crisis, we got through it. We lived in 2010, we lost him, too. In 2013, we lived in the traveling events, and we survived that too. Now in this crisis, within a month, all developing countries have lost a value in their money, and Turkey is among them. There's a saying in our Anatolian: the wedding with El is a holiday.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0146par0250	Mr. Prime Minister, let's continue for three more minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0142par0251	Thank you, Mr. President. But we're not sticking to it, we're taking precautions, it's gonna come and go. We can't build the future according to these, but we have to take precautions. What are the precautions we're taking? These are very clear, we once said in the 65th Government's Programme: ▪ Our priority is the real sector. We will prioritize sectors that contribute to the welfare of the country by producing, investing, creating jobs, and selling their products. We have taken a number of measures to do so. On the one hand, we've fought the coupgers, and on the other hand, you've made some very important decisions about the economy of Turkey -- thank you all -- about the future of Turkey. Look, citizens, we've made peace with the business community, we've made peace. You know what? So far, we've had 10 million citizens who are in debt from the SEC, who have tax debt, who owe a total of 124 billion dollars in customs -- who have a total of 124 billion -- who have applied to restructure their debt, and within a month, $14.5 billion of it went into the vault. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, in a country with such a big crisis, would that happen? Would a citizen line up to pay? Right, there's a line; there used to be a line, there was a line to buy dollars, now there's a line to cash dollars. This is a reflection of trust and stability. Mr. President, dear MPs, we've taken our precautions. There's a crisis in the world, and we can't say what to do. With the decision we made on December 8th, we created a new volume of loans to the 250 billion-dollar business world. How much is the need? 40 billion. We said: let's take extra precautions. You want 40 billion? Here's 250 billion. We've announced the incentive program for attraction centers, the amount of projects that have been applied without further formal application is 8 billion. Because we've come up with realistic projects.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0147par0258	Mr. Prime Minister, will you wrap it up, sir?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0142par0259	I'm picking it up, sir. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, trust and stability are the guarantee of Turkey's future. While the leaves are still all over the world, Turkey is implementing major projects one by one: the Ottomangazi Bridge, the Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, Marmaray, and the Eurasia Tunnel next Tuesday. The Eurasia Tunnel is the world's deepest underwater tunnel. I also invite all of our deputies -- the opposition, the ruling -- to the opening of this project, which is Turkey's pride project. (AS/TK) Let's not forget that Turkey's national income in 1950 was $6.9 billion, today only the Osmangazi Bridge, the Izmir-Istanbul highway is worth 9 billion dollars, more than 50 per cent of Turkey's national income. An example that shows the best where Turkey came from. With these feelings and thoughts, once again, I wish our budget to be blessed, and I thank all those who work hard again. Tomorrow in Turkey will be better than today, so don't worry. Let our citizens be at ease, and we will destroy the terror inside and out of Turkey's evil centers trying to resist its future. Those who put their backs against the mountain, and against the people, shall walk our way with determination.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0148par0264	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now, the last word, in order to speak, belongs to Mr. Musa Çaman, MP of İzmir, on behalf of individuals. Here you go, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0149par0269	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Honourable Members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; the draft of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law and the 2015 Central Management Act. I salute you all with love and respect. I wish the 2017 budget would be a blessing. On December 10th, I pray to the security forces who lost their lives in a treacherous attack on Beşiktaş, and to our civilian citizens, God's mercy, urgent healings for the wounded, and patience for their families. People are dying, our country is being dragged into a great disaster. Therefore, we cannot come out of our conscience, condemning terror with the most waxed words or shouts, even to those who are willing to be a live bomb, who are willing to die, we will destroy you, we will destroy you, we will not let you live. There is no more absurd than to think that you will frighten them and talk them out of it. We've seen for 40 years that the condemnation and the threat don't pan out. We have warned and continue to warn you of the power responsible for the rule of this country, while condemning and condemning terrorists when a disaster befalls us for seeing this. Because you've been running this country for 14 years as an absolute power, not a terrorist organization. In every disaster, every person who dies has your responsibility, and it's your fault. (CHEERING) You don't run the country very well. You don't want to solve the problem, you prefer to fight with the problem itself because you don't act with reason, you don't act with reason; you act with a political thought. Terrorists don't come from space, and those who join terrorist organizations are the young children of this country. You do not ask the question, "How do these children get to the point where they are willing to give up their lives and risk death? " You don't have the slightest policy or the slightest effort to prevent these children from joining the ranks of these organizations. Besides, you're pushing children further into the ranks of organizations with substantive policies based on brute force. There is only one solution to such problems: more democracy, more equality, healthier education and equal economic sharing. (Applause) To the person whose freedom you limit, where you don't give him good education, where you don't offer him a job, and where you hurt his honor, your life is very bad, but you have to respect someone else's good life. I don't want to solve this problem. I don't want to say anything but to say it. We want more democracy because we don't want terrorism to strengthen the terrorist. Since we don't want terrorists to have bases, we stress the importance of keeping political channels open. We have to focus on the policies that will allow us to become an equal, free, prosperous country where we don't want these young children to have their minds, their conscience, their humanity, to fall into the hands of those who have lost their lives, because we don't want them to fall into the hands of those who have lost their lives. When you look at the matter not with emotion, but with a little thought, with a little thought, with a little use of the mind, you'll realize that we will provide freedom, democracy, equality. Let's not give anyone a break. Let's increase the pressure, hang it up, cut it down. Those who say, "Let's put more oil on the bread of terror." (Applause at CHP) Do not go outside the law, do not harm people's sense of justice so that they will not be tempted in other ways. Those who say, "Let the law go out, and those who think it will solve the problem with brute force carry water into the mill of terror. However, if it is to continue the same course and expect different results, then it is an example of ignorance, rather than bad intentions. Be martyrs, be martyrs. I'll be a martyr. Blessed are the martyrs. Long live martyrdom. It means keeping the terrorist alive, encouraging the continuation of terror. Let's stop the terror, let's not let our people die, let our children live. If terror ends, we can't be martyrs. We can't consolidate the votes. Are you afraid? What's the matter with you? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, I thought you'd solve the problem with pressure, threats, brute force...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0150par0274	He's full of shit, he's full of shit.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0149par0275	...the policy developers do nothing but carry water into the mill of terror. Because for these organizations, pressure environments are the ideal environment for finding supporters, for growing up. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the budget negotiations will be over soon, after my speech. We've shown a very busy work here in the Plan and Budget Commission for a month and 11 days. Now, you're about to vote. 33 attacks in the last year and a half and 446 people have lost their lives. While this Parliament must immediately gather after today and take some measures and measures that will end this 40-year-old terror in Turkey, as if all Turkey's problems, all its problems, all its troubles, all its problems are over, only the Constitutional change, the presidency, and the regime change remain. So, if it's president, what are you going to do that you haven't been able to do so far? What did you want to do when you couldn't do it in your 14 years of power? But the point is that we all know that it's not a system debate, it's not the whole world, it's the whole world, it's the cats, it's the birds, it's the trees, it's all the creatures now know that what we want to do is that the standard of living of a single citizen in this country has nothing to do with the solution to the problems that exist from a distance. There is an effort and effort to fulfill the ambition, desire, desire, desire, desire of a man other than himself -- party companions, former companions, who have walked with him for many years -- who have not respected anyone's opinion, his opinion, his mind, his mind, his mind, his mind, and that the only truth is his own. If your problem really was a system change, would you say, "If there's no president, let there be a party presidency?" I am your master, and I think best of all of you, make this a legal status if a man sees himself as the only owner of the country, the only mind, the only patriot, the only leader.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0151par0278	He's not a person, he's the President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0149par0279	...we have no mind, we have no idea, we have no honor, we have no dignity; you rule us alone, you have all the authority, you have all the power.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0152par0281	It doesn't look good, it doesn't look good!
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0151par0282	He was elected by the vote of the nation, our President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0153par0283	Please don't interfere, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0154par0284	This is like how slaves argue about how to treat their masters' authority, how not to eat, how not to live, or how to live.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0155par0285	Brake, brake, brake!
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0154par0286	The more meaningless these discussions of slaves are in the presence of their masters, the more worthless they are, the more pointless the discussion of the presidential system today is.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0156par0287	Respect everyone, people.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0154par0288	The only thing that matters to that person is that ownership is strengthened by the law and restored to a suit of armor. It's called fascism. I find it truly shameful that you embrace slavery with great enthusiasm, that your efforts to bring an intellectual air to it, that they are so proud of the resilience of slavery.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0157par0290	Look at you, look at you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0158par0291	Pray for freedom at our door, pray for freedom at our door.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0159par0292	Don't interfere, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0160par0293	Let me repeat...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0159par0294	Minister... one moment, Mr. Pine... Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're having an exemplary meeting.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0161par0296	Let him correct his tongue first, Mr. President, your tongue.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0159par0297	I'm just saying my humble opinion. Thank you, everyone. Please don't interrupt, don't interrupt. Add that time, please.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0162par0301	He's insulting, he'll correct his tongue.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0163par0302	Again, it's not a system change, it's a matter of handing over all authority to one person, and it's a dictatorship. By airing a system debate, ▪ The presidential system is very necessary. It is nothing but an effort by those who call it voluntary slavery to recruit supporters. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Even in the President of the Basketball Federation's election, he'll call one of the two candidates to the Palace, and you won't run, and he'll run. It's clear in every way that the issue is not a system for a man who has a master, a master in every area, a man who has one word in his head. (HPP) The person he proposed and made president was sentenced to 20 games for doping in the United States.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0164par0305	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0163par0306	You're the ones who want to shut down independent justice, independent media, civil society, Parliament, and hand over all authority to one man...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0165par0307	So, how much was the budget, the budget, how much was the budget?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0163par0308	And those of us who oppose it, we will not allow the minority to claim the majority at every turn. You who say, without showing even a shred of boredom, work for one man to rule over society, you break yourself.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0165par0309	How much was the budget? How much of it goes to interest?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0163par0310	When it is clear that the individual will not create a situation for the good of the country, the presidential system is very useful.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0166par0312	People will get what they want.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0167par0313	Let's go! Let's go to the folks, people.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0168par0314	Tell me what the budget was, the budget.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0169par0315	Being a slave is understandable to some extent, but trying to promote slavery is nothing more than showing death and pleasing malaria to others.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0170par0316	CHP Fascism is over. It's over.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0171par0317	Don't worry, people are coming.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0169par0318	It's not just the master's fault. We have nothing to say to those who embrace slavery with such pride and try to spread it.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0170par0319	It's what people want it to be.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0172par0320	What's the budget?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0169par0321	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is December 16th, tomorrow is December 17th. We haven't forgotten December 17 to 25.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0173par0323	Strike, strike!
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0169par0324	Three years ago, we didn't forget the ministers' marshmallow boxes, the counting machines in their bedrooms, and the dollar vaults...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0174par0326	Calm down, calm down.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0169par0327	We haven't forgotten the phone calls that year's Prime Minister talked to his son, the millions...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0174par0329	Calm down. How much is the budget?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0169par0330	So December 17th-25th, he has to answer in public.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0174par0331	What's the result? What's the budget? Sir, how much is the budget, you didn't say? Mr. President, how much is the budget?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0169par0332	You didn't, you didn't, you gave everyone three minutes each, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0175par0333	Mr. President, let him collect his words.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0176par0334	Okay, sir, I've given you a deadline.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0177par0335	Mr. President, no, you didn't.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0176par0336	I did, sir, when I said I did.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0178par0337	Mr. President, I'm watching the screen here, sir. You didn't.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0176par0338	Sir, the clock is here, I'm here. Mr. Musa, I beg you...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0179par0339	You haven't given me an extension, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0176par0340	I did, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0180par0341	No, there's no such thing, Mr. President, it's an insult.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0181par0342	Mr. President, there's...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0182par0343	You didn't give me an extension.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0183par0344	Don't say you didn't, I said you did, but say you'd like another minute.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0184par0345	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0185par0346	What's he gonna do, apologize?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0186par0347	Normal rights.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0187par0348	He's got more rights than normal.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0186par0349	No, no, and he has a normal right, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0187par0350	After ten minutes, I agree, and I added it again, and now if he wants to do it again... Not that you didn't, I did, but I don't mean to offend him, but I beg you, General Assembly...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0188par0351	Moosa, pack it up, gather it up, salute it.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0187par0352	If there's any bullying, Mr. Group Vice President will respond. Let me tell you something. I'm so sorry. A member of parliament, Turhan Feyzioğlu, says that he is a great speaker. So I noticed, and I went to the front, and this is the great preacher, and I'll take some lessons from the late Turhan Feyzioğlu. I figured you must have cotton in your ear, and people don't hear what they're saying, and it just keeps going. So I put the cotton in, and I started talking, Mr. Pine is doing it.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0188par0354	Mr. President, say hello...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0187par0355	But please, don't be provocative, don't be picky. Look, I gave it to you, I added it again, but I'll add one minute to your request, on one condition, please don't be bullied.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0189par0356	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0190par0357	Sir, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0189par0358	I have something to tell the Prime Minister to talk that long.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0191par0359	Be Prime Minister, he'll give you one.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0189par0360	The Prime Minister said: "We have left no problems with our grandchildren. We, 80 million people, lend $400 billion to our children, but the Prime Minister and his children and grandchildren are very fortunate, he leaves a fortune.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0192par0361	Well, you don't tell me how much the budget is, what's the budget?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0189par0362	I wish you good luck and good luck on your budget. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0193par0365	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0194par0366	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0195par0367	Look, the result is the CHP is the opposition. Look, you know what?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0193par0368	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0195par0369	The CHP has been in opposition for so many, sixty-six years, that's the result.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0193par0370	Just a minute, Mr. Hodja.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0195par0371	Look, you know what? The CHP is in opposition. That's it. He's been in opposition for sixty-six years. That's the result.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0193par0372	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0195par0373	Sir, the CHP has been in opposition for 60 years. If they're not uncomfortable, that's fine.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0193par0374	Keep quiet. Keep quiet. It's a... it's a... it's a... it's a... it's a... it's There's no problem, go ahead. We won't break the harmony. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0196par0376	In his heated speech, Mr. Moses made a taunt about our group's dignity in the first place that I can't repeat.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0193par0377	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0196par0378	He said a lot of other things, but that's enough on his own.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0193par0379	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0196par0383	Mr. President, dear friends... Mr. Musa, do you hear that?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0197par0384	Yeah, sure.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0196par0385	And those who speak of it by placing a value of dignity upon it, and know the dignity of others as well as their own dignity. If you don't watch this, you'll fail your dignity, Mr. Moses. That's one. Two, you stood up to the hammock, you gave a very good speech. From the beginning, you sound like the sound of a car driving 200. I'm just saying it because I look like it. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) So your hammock is bad, my hammock is good. You accused us of irrational politics, and you added a quality of crime beyond political responsibility. Terror didn't start with us. Terror has a history. He must have studied history, Mr. Musa. There are many places in the world in the 19th century. Terror is a strategy in countries to enforce its own power against the people, against the political authorities there.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0198par0387	You bought the country with zero terrors.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0196par0388	Of course, you interfere with it in the mind and also in a stately manner to ensure the public's well-being. You do it in every way and in every way in the law. We too have been following Moses for 14 years -- the social dimension, cultural dimension, and, of course, the quality of a state -- to come out with a gun in your hand and do as I say. We intervene with the legitimate power of the state against a will that says, "You will do as I say." You're going to ignore the others in a way, and you're just going to tie them up in a place like we're fighting a gun, and you're going to get a terror review out of here.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0199par0390	Sir, will you please wrap it up?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0196par0391	That's not fair. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0200par0394	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0201par0395	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0200par0396	Sir, Mr. AKP's Deputy President has made a strong statement against our speaker in his speech, which he has spoken of for taunting, as he has always been.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0202par0397	What did I say?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0203par0398	He didn't say anything.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0204par0399	What did he do, we didn't hear, sir, tell him.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0205par0400	On one occasion, he spoke of the AKP Group's reputation and addressed the dignity of Mr. Musa Çaman. Moses compared the speech of Pine to the engine of a car that was traveling at 200. Wrong?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0206par0401	Okay, that's right.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0205par0402	Thus, when it is necessary to compare a human to a human, a human being is at a loss to compare his dignity with a car. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0207par0403	But the truck fell over.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0208par0404	You'll be forced to stand out, force it.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0205par0405	Therefore, because of this heavy taunt, Mr. Pine has the right to speak, we demand it. He'll speak for himself.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0209par0406	Mr. Pine, I beg you, please, do not challenge a new taunt. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0210par0409	The truck crashed.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0211par0410	The picture of why CHP was unable to rule is Musa Çam. It doesn't suit me.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0212par0411	Sing the anthem of the gendarmes.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0213par0412	Please do not interfere.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0214par0414	Mr. President, members of Parliament, we, the Republican People's Party, have told you in the past, our President, in Yenikapi, that when he went to the palace, he said it everywhere.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0215par0415	What palace, what palace?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0214par0416	We are always prepared to place our body under it, not our hands, as the main opposition party against terrorism and violence, whatever responsibility falls upon us.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0216par0418	Did he say that at the palace?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0217par0419	On December 17th?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0214par0420	However, it is not acceptable to expel innocent, innocent, and innocent people from universities, arrest them, detain them, subject them to lynching campaigns.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0218par0421	We'll root it out, root it out...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0214par0422	It is not acceptable to consider it an opportunity together with the State of Emergency Law and to simply turn to power as a member of any trade union all over Turkey because it has not been bent, it has not been surrendered, to expel families with decrees under the law, to drown families in hunger and poverty, to drown them in misery.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0219par0423	It was better without the text, better...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0214par0424	By turning your July 15th into an opportunity, you're also carrying out another coup in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0220par0425	Either tell the PKK or tell the PKK...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0214par0426	That's what we object to, that's what we object to. Otherwise, of course, whoever's involved in terrorism should have every kind of legal investigation and judicial trial against him, but it's one of the latest Hüsni Mahalli to hire innocent innocent people and remove the contract from their ears, suspend them, expel them, arrest them, arrest them.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0221par0427	How do you know he's innocent?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0222par0428	Make him a deputy, Hosni Mahalli. Make him a deputy.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0214par0429	Directors of the Republic newspaper, journalists, that's all. We object to their injustice and injustice. And we're willing to give you all the support and contribution we can to make this right. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0223par0432	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0224par0433	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0223par0434	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0224par0435	Sir, we have repeatedly warned that both in our previous talks and in our budget talks, he must separate the straw and the power from the straw.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0225par0436	We separate, you mix.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0224par0437	One of them revealed how right we were about the coup attempt we had on July 15th, which we had warned about over the years. We arrived on the night of July 15th, where we held the national will. As the ruling party was about to hit the wall, Turkey survived a coup by the power of the parliamentary regime.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0226par0438	You waited, you waited... you waited at 2:30. You rubbed your hands, waited for it to reach its destination.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0224par0439	Hopefully, they'll come to their senses, but the next time they don't, I'm afraid we can't even save the ruling party.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0227par0440	Dear MPs, I'd like to present to you Mr. General Assembly that Mr. Tanal had a request according to the Civil Code 58. It's disintegrating after the budget vote. I have a special request, it won't take long, there's a demand for 2 58, but I can't intervene until I've finished this clause. I beg you to continue your patience. I'm moving on now.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0228par0442	It's a vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0227par0443	Sir?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0228par0444	We want a vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0227par0445	I know what to do, sir. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0229par0447	My dear President, since you're going to put it to rest after the vote, I'm withdrawing the request.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0227par0448	But Mr. Mahmut, the rest of the agenda continues. I asked the General Assembly...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0229par0449	So I withdrew the request.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0227par0450	It'll take a very short time, according to 58, to negotiate -- I've done the review -- but I'll leave that statement until after the vote.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0230par0451	We're withdrawing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0227par0452	Sir?
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0230par0453	Our speaker is withdrawing the request.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0227par0454	Oh, you pull back, you pull back. You said.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0230par0455	Yeah, we're pulling back.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0227par0456	You hit it hard because you didn't have the right. For it was not for you, but for the beholder, in my hand. No offense...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0230par0457	Sir, we've pulled back, over.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0227par0458	Look, we're past that.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0231par0459	Mr. President, the last sentence...
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0227par0460	No, no, I opened a parentheses, please.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0231par0461	Look, if there's a Republican People's Party, it's for everyone. The Republican People's Party is also defending that minister's law, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0227par0462	Thank you. Members of parliament, talks on the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill have been completed. We will now vote on 2017 Central Management Budget Law and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. The drafts are subject to a clear vote. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote of both legislations should be carried out by electronic voting device: those who agree... those who refuse... are unanimous. We will begin the open vote of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help from members who can't get into the system, and I'd like to ask them to deliver the ballots to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled for a vote. In addition, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote be voted by any minister, and the color of the game, and the ballot bearing his signature with his name and name, again deliver it to the presidency within three minutes of the scheduled time for the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I announce the open vote on the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill: [[x]] Members of parliament, the Constitution of the Executive Budget Act of the 2017 Central Centre has been adopted. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. We will now begin the open vote of the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I read the clear vote on the 2015 Central Administration Final Accounting Act bill bill: [[x]] Thus, the Central Government of 2015 was adopted as the final bill of the Calculus Act. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As a result of hard work and overtime, we have agreed to budget and final billing. I pray that the Budget Law, our nation, our country, our government, and all of us will be blessed. Thank you to our esteemed political parties, Mr. General Board, as a fitting, outstanding example of the meeting. Sir, our Prime Minister has a request for a thank-you speech. Here they are, Mr. Bali Yıldırım, our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0232par0508	Mr. President, members of parliament, the 2017 central management budget has been adopted by our General Assembly. At the same time, the Final Accounting Law of 2015 was adopted here with your votes. I, first of all, thank you to all of our lawmakers, our parties, the members of the group, the Speakers of Parliament, our Speakers, our experts, our ministers, our MPs, who have worked through these budget talks from the commission stage to the end. Good luck to our nation. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] The 2017 budget will be a full investment budget. The construction of investments, 30 per cent increase, the construction of jobs, production, especially the nonviolent war on terrorism, is a service, investment, the budget of new projects. Hopefully, we'll bring our country's headache, our nation's distress, down to the bottom of our agenda. We believe that because we have the political will to do so, the nation has a complete union, a consensus. In Turkey, our entire nation is bound by its east, west, south, north, regardless of stability, trust, any activity that could disrupt the brotherhood. The problem with Turkey is terrorism. The terrorist organization does not have a problem called Kurds; Kurds have a problem like the PKK. (EC PARTY AND THE Council OF Ministers APPLAUSE) Hopefully we'll remove this issue from our country's agenda. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2016-12-16sit03spe0233par0514	[[AC PARTY and the Council of Ministers applaud standing by]] Thank you, Prime Minister. Sir, I have one more thing to explain after the congratulation, and I'd like to ask for a little more patience. Dear lawmakers, according to the Civil Code 58, if a deputy or minister wants a statement of his own to be corrected by the unification report, the president will promise not to exceed five minutes. As I have just stated, Mr Tanal has taken it back. I'm going to say that there was a conversation yesterday, and Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş made some statements about me. When it comes to the president, the president has the right to speak. On Monday, 5/12/2016, I said what I needed to say in the 31st Union, which I refer to there, and I pay my respects to all of you again. I'm saying good luck. It is 15 p.m. Tuesday (December 20, 2016) to discuss oral question motions and other audit issues. I'm closing the meeting at 00, thank you.
