tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of the MPs, İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Islamic Party) has a request for the correction of a statement in accordance with Article 58 of the Interior Charter. Mr. Tanal, I call you to the stand. I'll give you my word for two minutes, make a correction. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with respect and respect. Of course, the measure and criteria of the legal state for unsolved murders must be answered in full view of the state, no matter who committed the crime. In my speech yesterday, when I counted the names of those who had been killed in Urbana, I accidentally said, "Vehvedat Melik (x), this would be Muhsin Melik (Muhsin Melik)." In the same way, it's not neglect that those who opened their homes last night in Adana and, in fact, called a fire, without fire, in accordance with the basic principles of criminal law, would cause death without law, order, or judgment, if they allowed it to happen, it's a possible intention. Those who are in charge of this murder are responsible for it with absolute certainty. I ask God's mercy for those who die, and I ask patience for our nation. I'd like to ask the Minister of National Education, who is responsible for this, to resign immediately. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0003par0016	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make three non-responsive commitments to the MPs. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Mr. Dilek Ocalan, who has asked for the appointment of International Fight Against Violence Against Women. However, Mr. Ocalan has not yet arrived with the General Assembly. I'm going to go off the agenda. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Mr. Yilmaz Tezcan, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak about a call for a discreet alliance against sectial conflicts. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0004par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. I pray for God's mercy to our students who died in the fire in Adana, and to our wounded. May Allah never cause such suffering again. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself to call for a discreet alliance against sectarian conflicts. I salute you. "The Islamic world today has suffered a great deal in three issues -- sectarianism, racism and terrorism -- and has weakened Muslims and bled them out," he said in a speech at the Islamic Co-operation Agency. We're drifting into a cult-axis conflict in our region. Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Arakan, Myanmar, East Turkistan, Yemen, North Africa, where the blood of Muslims flowed. I would like to draw attention to this congress, considering that the decisions of the General Congress of the Islamic Union, which gathered in 1931, could be a prescription against these events. Dear lawmakers, the decisions of the General Congress of the Islamic Union of 1931 are remarkable in order to establish a common alliance ground for current developments. One of the ways to prevent the falling cult tension is to adapt the decisions made at the General Assembly of the Islamic Union in 1931. The possibility that the Sunni-Sii tension, which is being created on its axis as it begins in North Africa and continues in the Middle East, will become a polarization threatens the future of friendly countries in the region. Civil unrest that began in the Middle East with unjust occupations, revolutions in the North African countries, the grounds of religious discrimination, fueled by Syria, Iraq, Yemen and Bahrain, require that Muslims remain alert. In this framework, the Islam General Congress held in Jerusalem on December 10, 1931, made very important decisions to ensure cooperation between Muslims and the general brotherhood of Islam, without ethnicity and sectarianism, to promote Islamic beliefs and values. For that day, 153 participants from about 22 countries including Turkey, Syria, Iraq, Palestine, Yemen -- sectal divisions -- Sunni, Shii, Alevi, Shafi, Hanefi, and others -- are of great importance to the representatives of Islamic countries in order to develop the Islamic brotherhood and defend the interests of Muslims together. The General Assembly of the Islamic Union in Jerusalem, hosted by the Mufti of Jerusalem, Hadji Emin al-Hüseyni, consists of 17 articles. Some of the most remarkable and important items I've ever wanted to be modeled in today's political arena are as follows: Article 1: With the participation of Muslims from all over the world, a regular and general congress will be held, and this congress will be referred to as the General Congress of Islam. Today's Islamic Co-operation Agency. Article 2) The aims of Congress are: A) to develop cooperation between Muslims and the general brotherhood of Islam, regardless of ethnicity and sects, to promote Islamic faith and values. B) to defend the interests of Muslims and to protect the holy places and the land against any interference. As a sign of unity among Muslims, the Shiite religious scholar Mohammed al Hüseyin Ali Kaşif held Friday prayer at the Mascidi Aksa in "Sunni, Shii and İbadiye to the congregation that found ten thousand." Ali Explorer has made significant statements on who would want to block the decisions made in the general Congress of the Islamic Union, under the title "the importance of the brotherhood of Islam and the establishment of the Islamic Union." As a result, Our Prophet Mohammed (SAV) said: "Do not turn your backs on one another. Don't hold grudges against each other. Don't be jealous of each other. Do not befriend one another, and be brothers to God's servants." And when We created you from a man and a woman, and made you nations and tribes, that you may know one another. Surely the noblest of you in the sight of God is the most godfearing of you. " The faithful are only brothers. So make peace between your brothers and be wary of Allah that you may receive mercy." In the hope that Allah will continue our unity, our unity, and our brotherhood, I salute the High Assembly with love and love.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0005par0041	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. The first word off the agenda was Mr. Ocalan, but he wasn't in the General Assembly, and now he's here. Mr. Ocalan has made a commitment to the International Day of Fighting Against Violence Against Women. I now call him to the stand. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Ocalan.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0006par0048	Thank you. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been on the streets last week, taking riots against violence against women in every province. In particular, over the last year, violence against women in all areas of life - both physical, psychological, social, economic, cultural, sexual, and political - has become intense. Precious lawmakers presented significant data in revealing the government's perspective and mentality on women's killings, as a result of sexist policies in seven years from 2002 to 2009, when the AKP came to power. In the last year, 332 women have been killed due to male violence, at least 90 women from the war have been murdered. Even these results show that the AKP's view of the woman has a systematic and ideological approach. All dictatorial regimes and historical processes have shown very clearly that women's organisation, institutionalism and gains were first targeted and wanted to be destroyed in order to destroy the democratic essence of society. Today as a women's party, war policies imposed on us are intended to undermine our will. We know that the basic requirement for democratization, for an equal and free society to live on a fair and peaceful ground is women's sociality, women's thought, color, power and organization. Applications for our liquidation of democratic politics are neither coincidental nor new. A process that has been institutionalized by the experiences of sexist, militant and nationalist policies of only a thousand years is undermining social values. The government's unofficial approaches have been concrete in its proposal for legislation that paves the way for punishment for crimes against the KHKs and finally child abuse. Our Co-Chair Figen Yüksekdağ, who led the women through the struggle of Mirabels, Rozas, Saras, Seves, Arins, Actions, the life and struggle of fates, leading women with courage and determination, KJA spokeswoman Ayla Akat Atakya, who led the women's freedom march, said in this General Assembly, "We are not the mother or sister of anyone." DBP Co-Chair Sebahat Tuncel has resisted women politicians, coupist mentality in Diyarbakır prisons for years, Diyarbakır Metropolitan Co-Chair Gültan Kışanak is the result of fear of co-chairs, women MPs, women academics, feminists, feminists and health workers, all women involved in the struggle for women's freedom, women's will which is increasingly institutionalized and increasingly dynamic in social transformation. Women who have established the most important networks of solidarity in the war processes, women who are fighting equality and freedom, who have developed methods that allow women to take part in decision-making mechanisms such as co-chair and equal representation. On the other hand, it is imperative to see the presence and importance of women in terms of transferring their own savings into the process of social peace and offering a political perspective on the construction of a real democracy. World experiences have also shown that there is no peace in any society without women, which is precisely why it is necessary to rely on the organizational power of women rather than fear the organizational power of women. Dear MPs, historically, we will continue to build the idea of a democratic society that women have established against monotheism and racism, which is the cornerstone of the nation's state, and we will continue to fight for women's freedom. Knowing that democracy, freedom and equality can only develop in a society where women are free -- the self-conscious is violence -- we will grow and win as those who know that they will be won by struggle. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0007par0061	Thank you, Mr. Ocalan. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Lale Karbük who asked for a statement about the disaster of the home in Adana and our painful losses. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0008par0067	Mr. President, a fire broke out in the middle of the evening at a halfway house in Aladağ district of Adana, called the Middle School Girls' Home, and the fire quickly surrounded the entire dorm because the dorm was covered with wood and carpets. Of the three villages, Winter, Karahan, and Bridgeluk, 11 - 14 - year - olds and 1 staff were killed in this fire. Two of our 8th - graders, Merve and Hacer, were not in the dorm that day, they were off duty, and they survived the fire. These children are children of poor families. Their village is so far from the county that sometimes they can't even go see their parents on the weekend. Parents struggle to get their children to study as much as they can because they are underprivileged, but they are very difficult. Dear lawmakers, I said the same thing on this bench in Karaman's case: there is a problem in education in this country, and it is certainly the responsibility of the state to resolve this problem, and that is the same in the matter of the Constitution. However, similar problems occur when the government fails to carry out its duties and dismisses that responsibility. The YIBOs, or boarding elementary schools, are now very low. There was a state dorm in this county, but it's closed, closed, and it's not replaced. And when needed, that's how it happened, the way it filled the void. Now, I'm reading an article on the Law on Higher Education Homes and Ashhouses 5661, who can open private student dorms. ▪ The establishment of student dorms at secondary school and higher education level has been announced in the Special Student Homes Regulations. In accordance with this regulation, the Republic of Turkey can open a home for real people and private legal persons for middle education or higher education students. It means that they can't open a home at the first and secondary school level. However, valuable lawmakers were 11 - 14 - year - olds who lived in this dorm and died in the evening; they were five, six, seven, and eight - year - olds who lost their lives. I'm reading something other than the Special Student Homes Charter, which says: "The building is caved, prefabricated, steel or concrete, and the doors of entry and service are found. " Look, this place is covered with wood. It's probably a forest village, they did it to lower the cost, but on the other hand, these kids were found locked in front of an unopened fire escape, where their bodies were found dead. I'd like to get your attention. Dear MPs are currently in Adana, seven ministers, making a press statement in this district. I wish they could've prevented some mistakes before this pain happened. Now, I ask you, who licensed this dorm? Has this dorm been audited? If the inspections were done, where are the reports? We want to see these. Why were there girls from the age group who shouldn't have stayed there? And again, what were the standards of the door to the fire escape, why was it closed? How was he licensed? And I always say, how many of these dorms are there? I and my friends have told me many times to get the inventory out of this chair. Dear MPs Sema, Gamze, Sevim, İlknur, Zeliha, Nurgül, Sümeyya, Tuğba and Heaven wanted to be doctors. These girls won't get their dreams anymore. We're all heartbroken, but when will this pain end? Let's not forget, dear lawmakers, we are parents, and these children are the children of this country. And that responsibility falls to us. However, we see that we still can't fulfill that responsibility. Please, everyone think about this once more, and first of all, let's get inventory of these illegal dorms, illegal places, unsupervised places, and let's not have that pain again. I offer these children God's mercy, and my condolences to their grieving families.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0009par0075	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make the first 15 MPs in the system a minute short of their position. We'll take turns. Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0010par0081	My heart aches and cries for my condolences to the families of our children and our instructors, who burned in Adana Aladağ, who died by hugging and hugging each other, and to the wounded, and to the wounded I pray for immediate healing. The future of our country is that our children lose their future either by brainwashing or molesting or raping and abusing in unregistered homes of associations, communities and sects, or by lack of control and neglect, as in the fire in Adana. In my speech at Parliament on October 6th, I asked why the AKP officials, who have been bragging about our youth's dorm problem and have been bragging about construction and double-prouding for 14 years, did not build a state dorm. I asked, "Don't your consciences feel sad because you left our young ones in the care of the congregations and sects? " I will not repeat this unanswered question today. I refer this painful event to the pure conscience of our great people.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0011par0084	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0012par0086	I am deeply saddened by the fire in Aladağ district of Adana, where 12 students lost their lives and 22 others were injured. It's not a disaster, it's a massacre. We've learned that the electrical meter that caused the fire was altered the day before and hasn't been inspected. We found out the fire escape doors were locked. That's why I'm saying that lack of control brings slaughter and lack of control is not fate. Circumstances that cause this event are again the result of fanatical thinking. The death of children is political, the death of women is political, the death of miners is political; death is political in a country where people do not die in the first place. It is the government's primary duty to solve the student housing problem, to build and manage dorms for this purpose. I'm inviting the government to do their duty immediately.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0011par0087	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0013par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I listened to the problems of farmers in Silifke and Erdemli, where I visited on Monday. Farmers have two basic problems; one, they can't find water to produce, two, they can't sell products that they produce despite all the difficulties. Virtue and Silifke farmers have all their hopes tied to the Aksifat Dam, which will be built on Lamas Tea. Farmers, however, say the AKP government has not completed the Aksıfat Dam, although it has made a constant commitment. If you look at it technically, you can see that the Aksifat Dam cannot be finished again at the promised time. The AKP government is openly torturing all farmers, especially the Mersin farmers. The flood dam must be completed immediately. If the AKP government cannot afford to do so, it must resign immediately.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0011par0091	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0014par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. After the explosion in front of Adana Governor's office last week, we received another painful news from Adana. We regret the loss of 11 of our children and 1 of our dorm staff as a result of a fire in a girls' dorm in Aladağ district of Adana. For those who have lost their lives, I ask God's mercy, and for those who continue to be cured, and for the immediate healing and patience of the families of our young. Our government has acted in every way from the moment the incident was heard. None of our citizens should be concerned that the necessary investigation into the responsible will be carried out in the most detail. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0015par0096	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0016par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Our hearts were burned by the bad news from Adana. Fire has struck the hearts of families and Turkey. First, I wish God's mercy on our children who have lost their lives, condolences on their families, and immediate healing for our wounded young. Let this be the end, but for that to happen, the power must first give up its policy to condone. Look, Nevşehir is also said to have about 15 unsupervised dorms. How many more kids have to lose their lives, get molested to do inspections? At the weekend, we were in Nevşehir, where 100 hotels are currently closed for sale. The army of unemployed have joined the new Nefers. The government doesn't know, the Nevşehirs have been fooling around with the fast train line lie for ten years. Our president of Nevşehir County Kamil Gülmez asks when the high-speed train line will be activated. Agriculture, which is the most important source of income outside tourism, is dying, and no one hears them. You're going to say: "Don't you have a deputy in Nevşehir?" Yes, they do, but they don't have any problems except for the presidency. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0017par0103	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0018par0105	11 of our students and 1 instructors lost their lives last night in the fire at the sorority dorm due to the oversight and negligence of the government's ministries in Aladağ district of Adana. I wish patience for painful families. Her family lived an hour and a half away from Aladağ, starting in the 5th grade this year with a 4+4+4 education system, leaving her family for the first time in the dorm and dying in last night's fire, saying that her daughter's grieving father, Paradise Karataş, wanted to become a doctor, started in Aladağ. It was the only home, we had no chance to criticize, we had no choice, we had to. AKP governments continue to darken the future of our students and children.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0017par0107	Mr. Emir...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0019par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Again, our hearts are burning with painful news. Sadly, we lost our young girls in the fire in Adana. A year ago, on December 1, six of our children were burned to death against the iron gates to escape the fire again in Diyarbakir Kulp. And at that time, our parliamentary research agenda was ignored. This fire and these deaths are the first-degree perpetrators in power, responsible and have no right to shed tears because it has not solved the housing problem, it has made the housing problem special, it has not done the necessary inspection, and because they haven't been done, we are experiencing these deaths. If these voices are not heard, these deaths will continue to happen. We now expect the power to accept its responsibility and to do its due. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0020par0112	Dear Man...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0021par0114	Mr. President, our suffering is getting deeper and deeper every day because children are dying in our country because the allegations of abuse, sexual abuse against young children are endless. Is there a government, a power that can't protect its children? Why hasn't a government who loves concrete, construction more than anything solved the housing problem in this country in 14 years? For 14 years, why hasn't a giant site, a skyscraper builder, been built for our children in every province? How many dorms could be made for our children in this country with the money spent on the palace? Everyone is in Adana today. Please go somewhere before the children die, not after the children die, inspect the children's homes in every corner of this country before the children die, and make no exceptions to anyone or the group. Because the rulers are responsible; the rulers are responsible for conscience, law and politics. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0020par0116	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0022par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. 11 students, one female trainer lost their lives and 22 others were injured in the fire in the girls' dorm in Aladağ district of Adana. For those who have passed away, I pray for mercy from Allah, and a speedy healing for the good. Life in our country has become a problem in every sense. The news of the martyrs, work killings, traffic accidents, women's murders, ritual killings, sexual harassment, food poisonings, floods, fires, or possible fatalities, are unfortunately handled by a fatal approach. Repeatedly, the duties required by necessity were not fulfilled enough. Wide-ranging operations, the statements stated to be strictly audited have lost credibility. The only people responsible for our free days are those in charge. It's their duty not to make excuses, but to make solutions. It's not necessary to go behind the scenes, it's essential to go in front of them. The responsible should also know that resigning is a virtue. Putting a gag order on the news and preventing it from getting out is no more than guilt, which is a meaningful result. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0023par0122	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0024par0124	Yesterday evening, when the bill for the National Ministry of Education was discussed here, 12 of the students who stayed at home were burned to death and 22 others were injured in the district of Aladağ, Adana. Officials who leave education to the monopoly of congregations and foundations and do not make the necessary inspections are responsible for the loss of lives. The children of poor families who are forced to give their children to their homes because of poverty are either being harassed or burned to death, as in Gerger. What does it mean in this country to have a Ministry of National Education if you are to give education to a congregation, housing to another congregation, if you are not going to do the proper audits? These children were dying in the fire while passing the double salary law of retired national academics. It's your duty as a government to protect these children. I hope you don't call this massacre fate or fortune because it's not fate, it's murder. How will the Governor of Adana, Adana City, the head of the estate, explain the fact that the fire escape is locked in the dorms, that there are no proper inspections?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0023par0126	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0025par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. December is the highest time of automobile sales. Many citizens wait for the December month of campaigns to buy cars. A sudden increase in OTV during this period, which has an advantage for both citizens and tradesmen, is about to increase sales. Both citizens and tradesmen were victimised, as the economy was pushed to shrink by this practice that was put into effect overnight. Such an understanding of governance has never been seen in the history of the Republic. The economy is falling, the exchange rate is constantly increasing. So I'm asking the government, what's the rush in implementing the OTV increase that's going to victimize everyone, make the economy smaller?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0023par0130	Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0026par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. The death of our daughters in a fire in a private student hostel in Adana Aladağ was a tragedy to all of us in the nation. I ask God's mercy on our students, my condolences on their families, and for our wounded children's immediate healing. If there are those who are negligent, we have learned that the necessary investigation has also begun, but necessary measures must be taken to ensure that such painful events do not happen again. There is also a clause in the National Ministry of Education Agency Law, which we have discussed on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly since last week. In addition to providing private housing services for students, both municipalities and foundations, no matter what the name is, the registration of dorms, pensions and other places has been introduced by the Ministry of National Education and the regulation to be supervised by the Ministry of National Education has come to be enforced as soon as possible. I'm just saying that we have a recommendation in the Children's Instigation Commission, and I'm paying respects.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0027par0136	Mr. Bay...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0028par0138	First of all, I ask for God's mercy on our lost children in Adana, patience for their grieving families, and I demand that those responsible be punished most severely. Last week, we obtained the writing of a district director of national education, who said that it is mandatory for students and teachers to attend a panel organised by AKP MPs through an association in İzmir Paying. At that time, students who should have been in school were taken to a political meeting by force. How would you tell the parents if there was a fire in that hall with the AKP flags or a terrorist incident? Although the district chief of national education is a public official, he is openly political. When they do politics, they forget the safety of students with a real job, the safety of fire. The recently paid County National Education Director must be relieved of duty immediately. The ones who throw teachers out just because they're union members... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...who are condemned to hunger, who don't have politics in colleges, who tell the police they're taking high school students to their meetings. It's not fate.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0029par0143	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0030par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. After the explosion in front of the governor's office last week, we received another painful news from Adana last night. We regret the loss of 11 of our young and 1 instructors as a result of a fire in a girls' dorm in Aladağ district of Adana. For those who have lost their lives, I pray for God's mercy, and for those who continue to be cured, and for the immediate healing, and for the family of our young, patience, and hope that such suffering will never happen again. Our government has acted in every way from the moment the incident was heard. No citizen of ours should have any doubt that the investigation into the responsible will be done in the most detail. I'm sorry for the loss of our nation. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0031par0150	And finally, Mr. Kavioğlu...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0032par0152	The law belongs to the nation unconditionally. It's a serlevatory expression. It's the 91st anniversary of his hanging on the walls of our House. Thankfully, we're members of the EC understanding that this concept is based on political ground, and thankfully, we're the companions of a great statesman, our President, who has the dignity of the values he represents in front of the jihan. The biased and wrong decision of the European Parliament has also been met by a major infinitive and response in Bayburt. In every national and spiritual issue, the first speaker of the Bayburtt, shares the determination of the national will on the floor of the House, from Edirne, to Kars, from Hatay, to Tripoli, I salute those who keep the spirit of July 15th alive. To make a note of history, in three or five years, the European Union will force Turkey to join the Union. So today, under the guise of the congressman, the journalist... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...those who cooperate with terrorist groups and support them and serve the EU, should know that the Turkish nation has a soft heart and a wide heart. But he will never forgive those who betray him.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0033par0157	Thank you, lawmakers. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group, and we're going to start with Mr. Akçay. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0034par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. The loss of 11 students and 1 instructors and 22 students in a fire in Aladağ district of Adana has caused our entire country to suffer a deep sadness. It's almost a massacre-wide disaster. To those who lost their lives in this disaster, I pray for the mercy of God to his relatives, to Adana, and to all the people of Turkey, and to our wounded students for immediate healing. Our pain is inexplicable. Words are incompatible. Eight years ago, 18 of our students were killed by a gas explosion in a student dorm in Tashkent district of Konya Province on August 1, 2008. We saw again yesterday in Adana that he had not been learned from the tragedy eight years ago. And from now on, will we continue to hear the news of disaster from these private homes scattered all over our country? Is there no control of our students, the future of our country, in these dorms where we deliver our children? How the fire broke out, how it wraps up a two-story two-story dorm building with wood in it, must be made clear as soon as possible, those responsible and those who abuse the command must be found and punished. The Republic of Turkey's claim and support of future generations is among its primary responsibilities and duties. It's wrong to think otherwise, it's painful, and it's worrying. How true is the word of Sheikh Edebali, so that the state may live? What is the state that can't keep a man alive, especially his children?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0035par0165	I'll open it, Mr. Akchay, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0034par0166	Thank you. The government will do its job; if these children have to stay in the dorms for their education, the government will build this country. He's not gonna leave our kids in some building, lobbying, community, cult or whatever. On the other hand, if the government can't make these dorms in the short term, then it will certainly have the best control. If you can't control the services in areas where the state has abandoned its unknownformer structures, if you can't regulate them, we will continue to live with new Somas, new Tashkents, new Siirt Shirvans and new Aladağs. Of course, we will experience our suffering, but it is imperative that those responsible for this disaster be found and brought to justice as soon as possible, and that the necessary, decisive, and effective steps will be taken after that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0036par0170	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. On behalf of the HDP Group, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0037par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to point out that our MPs are still on their way to Kandira Prison, where, in fact, you can't enter the Candira. With an order supposedly being a governor's order, I'd like to say that our MPs, including our Deputy President, Çağlar Demirel, are standing by, and such a shame is still living in Parliament. We ask that an immediate attempt be made on this matter and that your presidency take a step towards it. Now, there's been a great tragedy in Aladağ, but we want to say that these people are tired and concerned that this Assembly is just a place of mercy and condolences. The first question is, what were these children doing there? Now, it's not about control, we just want to know what these kids were doing there. Because children between the ages of 11 and 14 are children, and it's actually a permit to be allowed to attend secondary school, which is not an authority. So what were children of this age doing there when only private student dorms could be opened for children of high school and university age? Therefore, let no one say, "If anyone is neglected, let no one say, "Observe. " It's the children's policies of power that are neglected at first.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0038par0179	I'm opening it, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0037par0180	Please... These policies have also shown themselves with Ensar. They have shown themselves with KAIMDER, with other abuses. You make children, especially poor children, only to the congregations, and those with money, into private dorms. Education, however, should be secular, democratic, pluralist, native language and free education. You've wiped it out completely. Therefore, first of all, Aladağ was the Governor of the National Education, the Governor's Governor of Adıyaman, the Governor's Governor of Adıyaman, who had already been abused in Gerger. They need to resign, and the ministers need to be identified as responsible. I'd like to say one last thing: we've identified it specifically, we've investigated it, this is the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey that there's been a gag order against a fire.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0039par0184	Please complete. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0037par0186	So you're actually trying to darken the truth from now on, and unfortunately, all of the dorms, the dorms you call homes, have now been transferred to TURGEV, or to other congregations. We really want to ask the government: Are you expecting a new coup? You know very well the way you reacted to them. Therefore, be open to inspections, do not bring broadcast bans, be transparent, and do not hurt our children. It's especially your children's policies that are responsible. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0040par0189	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Altay, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0041par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. Last night, when we were working at the House, both our coven and the country were shot. Indeed, we experience much more pain than consciences can accept. We're not going to do politics here; our daughters' funerals are in the middle, we still have children fighting for their lives in the hospital, but, Mr. President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and its deputies have other responsibilities than condolences. There will be terror, martyrs, casualties, we will come here with condolences, condolences, condolences, God's mercy, and our condolences to your relatives. There will be fires, catastrophes, which are certain to be a huge task flaw and a weakness of control, and we will come here, and we will say, "Woe to us, we have been hurt." Mr. President, Congressmans, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'll talk to the General Assembly tomorrow. In 2005, we warned from this platform that the middle-school housing problem is Turkey's biggest problem; that it is the most painful problem; that it means that students will neglect the responsibility of the state in solving their housing problems through the community, organisation, the foundation, the association and so on. There's no need to talk too much now. We, the Republican People's Party Group, will bring you a group proposal to open a parliamentary investigation tomorrow. I'm telling you today that as both the ruling party and other opposition parties -- there's always a need for the agreement of all four parties to open the parliamentary investigation -- let's not make politics from here, members of parliament.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0042par0197	I'll open it, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0041par0198	We don't want to say, "Wow, it was a congregation, that's what it was. We don't mean it." We're burning up, those kids' mothers, their fathers, they're burning up. But I'm calling in advance from here, and I'm speaking to the public from here: the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has to seize the situation, especially with regard to these junior college dorms. We, the Republican People's Party Group, will bring it down to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly tomorrow. The reason we haven't downloaded it today is because we want to have a little bit more information and discovery at the point of mission flaws, responsibilities, neglect. I speak to the public of Turkey, and I speak to the conscience of the lawmakers: We must now resolve this problem by setting up a research commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, setting up a serious study commission to determine and informing the current government of the measures that need to be taken, and drafting joint legal proposals for the implementation of the necessary legal regulations. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0043par0202	I'll open it, please complete it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0041par0203	I'm already telling the political party groups and members of parliament that if the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can't handle it today, our Parliament will lose a great deal of confidence and dignity tomorrow. By addressing the conscience and feelings of the ruling party's majority party's executives and the oath they made on the stand, I'm already making this call, and shortly thereafter, I'm hoping that the deputy head of the ruling party, who will speak after me, will also make a comforting statement of the public conscience and public opinion, at least the Turkish Grand National Assembly, not only will it be a condolence tent, but will share it with the lawmakers and in part with the public, and I hope that there will be a relief. Again, I wish our babies mercy, patience for their grieving families. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0044par0206	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0045par0209	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly. In the name of the AK PARTY group, I pray for the mercy of God to the children who died in the fire at Adana Aladağ. We pray for immediate healing for our wounded. Our pain is great, our heart is burning. As a nation, we suffer this pain. First I wish patience to the families of our children, then to our nation. Of course, I'd like to point out from here that we're going to be following this case as the AK PARTI government. We've been keeping a close eye on the forensic and administrative investigation process. As soon as we get word of the incident, our Deputy Prime Minister, our concerned ministers and regional lawmakers have arrived at the scene as soon as possible, the necessary investigations are still being conducted. Anyone who is negligent here will be processed regardless of his status or status. In addition to the administrative process related to the incident, the legal process was initiated by independent judiciary. It has been announced to the public that there are detentions within this scope. This painful event will be thoroughly investigated, and those who are flawed and neglectful will be punished. I want to make it very clear here that we need to address these kind of painful events as a matter of political overpowering. And finally, I'd like to rephrase that, as our nation rests, we'll follow it to the end. Anyone with negligence or flaws will be questioned within the framework of the law and the law.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0046par0214	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Congressmans, once again, as the Presidential Court, we wish our students, our daughters, God's mercy who died in this terrible fire in Adana Aladağ yesterday; our condolences to their relatives, families, loved ones, and all the peoples of Turkey. We are also informed by Mr. Kerestecioğlu that Mr. Çağlar Demirel has not been admitted to Kandira, along with four MPs. In the morning, Mr. Demirel came to me, saying that they had not been admitted to Kandira. I had a meeting with both the Deputy Interior Minister and Parliament Speaker Mr. Ismail Kahraman, but I met with Mr. Kahraman five minutes before this hearing was launched. Mr. Hero told me that he would meet with the Governor, that he would solve the problem, but since I came here, I couldn't speak to Mr. Kahraman again. He just sent me a message saying he called my office, said he wanted to see me, but he said he'd give me a note from my administration of the General Assembly. And after this note comes, I'm going to share with you the necessary explanation. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda now. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. I'll have the motions read separately. Since the parliamentary survey motion I will read in the first place is more than 500 words, a summary of the motion will be read, but the full text of the motion will be included in the journal. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's tens of years of unresolved issues are at the top of what we call "unknown" political murders. Abdi İpekçi to Bahriye Triok, Turan Dursun to Muammer Aksoy, Uğur Mumcu to Necip Hablemitoglu, a left-social democratic thought reaching to Tahir Efflu, has deeply shaken society's importance, the killings of intellectual, progressive people from the world of science and thought, and the absence of the perpetrators of these murders. Keeping these murders in the dark has destroyed confidence in the government and its institutions. The judicial system that distributes justice in the name of the public has been reversed, no one trusts the judiciary, and everyone is looking for their justice. For confidence in the state and justice to be restored, these murders must first be illuminated. Therefore, under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code, we demand a parliamentary investigation into the unsolved political murders. [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Denizli]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Army]] [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] 8) He Gives a Stopping Idea [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Tekirdağ]] 17) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[40s.]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Mughle]] 24) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] Turkey's tens of years of unresolved issues are at the top of what we call "unknown" political murders. Abdi İpekçi to Bahriye Triok, Turan Dursun to Muammer Aksoy, Uğur Mumcu to Necip Hablemitoglu, a left-social democratic thought reaching to Tahir Efflu, has deeply shaken the important part of society when intellectual, progressive people from the world of science and thinking voiced the demands of peace, democracy and solidarity, and the fact that the perpetrator of these murders is unknown. These political murders are the common problem of all political parties. For this, a research commission for Turkey's Grand National Assembly will contribute to the response of democratic politics to social expectations. These killings, aimed at the idea, have also targeted all political parties who have sought to bring free thought to power. For reasons revealed above, the investigation of these political murders by a commission will contribute to public peace and confidence in the state. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the Council of Culture, which has nine of the 10 criteria required to enter the UNESCO World Heritage List, which can be a tourist destination with its natural and historical beauty, should not be submitted to this list so far, and not be elected as Cultural and Tourism Protection and Development Zones, and not be elected as the following Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, which will bring more damage to the region than benefit. 20.01.2016 [[Batman]] [[Diyarbakır]] 3) Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] 11) Burcu Çelik Özkan [[Mwah.]] [[Siirt]] [[Siirt]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Tunceli]] [[Van]] 23) Tuğba Hezer Özturk [[Van]] Hasankeyf is an ancient city on the banks of the Tigris River, surrounded by the history of nature, dating back thousands of years. There are about 300 archaeological sites in Hasankeyf, including Al-Rizk Mosque, Zeynel Bey Temple, baths, more than 5,000 caves and castles. So far, about 40 percent of the region has had surface research. Therefore, the Ilisu Dam will flood many valuable historical riches without being exposed to the light of day. A World Heritage List of assets with extraordinary universal values is created under the Charter for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Mira. In order for an entity to enter this list, it must carry one or more of the 10 criteria set, Hasankeyf has nine of the 10 criteria and will increase its world-class knowledge, and its help can be received from the World Heritage Fund. To date, volunteers and environmental associations have applied several times through the Ministry of Culture to join Hasankeyf (the UNESCO World Heritage List), but applications have been blocked by the Ministry. Hasankeyf, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and the List of Tourism Centres (TM) established by the Council of Ministers resolution were not included in the list of Culture and Tourism Protection and Development Areas (KTKGB). He is in danger of being buried in the water, while he has the skills to be KTKGB and access to the UNESCO Cultural Heritage List. Under the rescue plan, the DSI and the consortium suggest that the removal of nine underwater artifacts would prevent the destruction of historical artifacts. However, it is not possible for the artifacts to move to another area because of its structural properties and the fact that excavations in the field can only be completed in 45 years. The Ilısu Dam will affect a total of 199 villages in the surrounding provinces and thousands of people in the district of Hasankeyf. According to a survey of the Reconstruction Action Plan, most of the people affected plan to migrate to major cities. Hence, cities that will receive migration will be affected. A number of locals who plan to move to the settlements are being borrowed with money they don't have. Statements that the dam will open employment space for 10,000 people in the region are far from reality. Because, once the Ilisu Dam is completed, there will be no more than 200 jobs for security guards, technicians, engineers and so on. The dam will also damage ecological balance, affecting many species living in the valley and river. In addition, it will cause the underground water to drain, the riverbeds to break down, and changes in the local climate. Instead of being underwater, the registration of the Hasankeyf would be much more useful for the development of the region as a centre of natural and cultural tourism, and could be saved from being buried in thousands of hectares of fertile water for the region. However, we would like to ask for a parliamentary investigation to determine the reasons why the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, whose mission is to protect, protect, and protect historical, natural and cultural assets, should not make any effort to find the rightful place for such cultural and natural wealth and to insist on the Ilisu Dam. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are many children in Turkey's prisons, and we demand and demand that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98, and Internal Charter 104, and 105, in order to determine the situation of juvenile prisoners and to conduct the necessary work done in all dimensions of their problems. 1) Coral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Pain]] [[Pain]] 5) The Leader of the Secret [[Ankara]] 6) Ayşe Acar Başaran [[Batman]] 7) Mehmet Ali Aslan [[Batman]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hakkari]] 21) Mehmet Emin Adıyaman [[Lug]] [[İstanbul]] In Turkey, the rights violations and difficulties that children face within the justice system do not reflect on the public with all its dimensions. Children's rights have been secured by the United Nations Children's Rights Act, as well as by the Children's Justice Management under the rules of Dair Asgarial (True of Beijing), the rules for preventing juvenile crime (Riyad's Rules) and the protection of children who were taken from their rights (the rules of Havana). Turkey, again, has been part of the UN Children's Rights Contract since 1995 and has been part of the two additional senior protocols since 2002. However, the state's negligence attitude and the methods of violence against children while performing the duties of public officials are a major problem within the heavy judicial mechanism. As a matter of fact, according to the UN Children's Rights Committee and the UN Human Rights Committee, "no child will be deprived of freedom illegally or arbitraryly. The arrest, detention, or imprisonment of a child will be required by law and will be limited to as soon as possible, but only as soon as it is considered a measure to last resort." However, it has been known recently that children have been arrested and put in prison, that children between the ages of 15 and 18 are being tried in severe criminal courts, that they have been subjected to torture and violence. This suggests that Turkey continues to seriously violate child rights by failing to comply with the contracts signed under its name. Moreover, the rights violations of these children's prisons have reached a significant extent, including the Pozanti Prison, Antalya, Mughla and the current public opinion, are a clear statement of the events. According to the 2014 Children's Statistics Association of Turkey, the number of children brought to security units due to the crime increased from about 85,000 to 116k in 2011. According to the Justice Department's data, 525 children are in prison and 1,582 children are in prison within the age of 12 to 17 years of age brought to security units as of 2015. However, these numbers do not reflect the actual numbers, as 18 - year - olds are not added. According to 2013, the number of juvenile prisoners increased by twice as much, while the proportion of child prisoners in total was 3.8%. Since the return rate of the children who were released after their arrest is around 65 per cent, there should be more functional measures on child imprisonment, while the fact that Turkey's goal of 2017 is to raise the number of children's prisons to 15 shows that the future for children is not so bright. For example, 106 children have been taken into custody in Adana province in the last seven months, 22 of these children have been arrested, while 6 children have been sentenced to house arrest. On the one hand, children are victims of unsolved deaths, while on the other, young children and their childhoods disappear among the cold walls of prisons. Moreover, these children who are in large number of adult prisons are not only punished by imprisonment, but are also victimized by sexual abuse in prisons twice. The arrest measure is among the most recent measures in the penal code, while the Children's Protection Act notes that the arrest of children is the last resort. Again, Article 41 of the Constitution guarantees the right of each child to live and grow in a family environment; the right to use and access to social services (social) and social (social) services to protect and support every child and every mother within the family; and the right of each child to complete primary education and to have a profession. It also violates international contracts, especially the Constitution, and existing legislation, for children to be arrested and put in prison. With this bet, it is necessary to request parliamentary research in order to immediately clarify the unlawfulness of the application to child imprisonment and to address these problems. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Altay, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0047par0398	Thank you. Mr. President, we say that there is democracy if there is parliament, that there is democracy if there is opposition, that there is no institution for the use of fundamental rights and freedoms from the Constitution can use a mandate that no institution has ever taken from the Constitution. Again, according to our Constitution, we call freedom of travel. Now, that's all we're saying, even in democracy, we've jumped the age, we've skipped the barrier -- whatever. Now, the meeting you just had with the Speaker, the coming point... I just got off the phone with Mrs. Ages and my colleague. Mr. President, I wonder what to do. In this country -- as I said yesterday -- it's an open sabotage to the peace of the country, to the unity of the country, to the face of the country -- there's no other explanation. What reason could a governor have for not letting a political party's MP, the group's deputy president, into a district? And if we stand by as Republican People's Party, it's against our understanding of democracy, it's against our own. I'd like to address Mr. President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on this occasion. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the President of the Assembly of all of us, the majority of power, but from the moment he sits there, one of his primary duties, even the most important, is to protect the reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, one by one, each and every member of the House of Parliament. This is unacceptable, Mr. President. A congressman is not allowed in a district with the pleasure of a governor. To them today, to us tomorrow, to the next day. I always say fascism doesn't come with a ceremony. The practices were no different from the practices of fascist regimes around the world. I'm protesting this situation. I'm not busy with the governor, he's an officer under the government. I protest the government. I'm protesting the president of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In addition, this is Parliament, there is not one government official in the General Assembly at the moment. You have promised your place according to 60. The MPs have spoken their words. Where did the lawmakers tell you their business? He tells it to the executive body. Where's the executive organ? We don't know where he is, we don't know what he's doing. Mr. President, I'd like you to take advantage of your savings, take the initiative to hold an evaluation meeting with the four deputy political parties in the rear in order to address this treatment of the group's vice president. I do, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit01spe0048par0405	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Congressmans, of course, the fact that five MPs are not allowed in a district is a very grave situation, and I would like to express to you that this is an unacceptable situation in a country where we, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, will not have this problem in the future, as you have expressed in a country where we are talking about freedom of travel. Now, I'm going to take a ten-minute break from the merger, and I'm going to invite the members of the group to the rear, and we'll have a consultation.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0048par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Democratic Party of Rights Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 30/11/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Under the OHAL, which was announced on November 30, 2016 by Diyarbakır MP Deputy Chair Çağlar Demirel, just after the July 15 coup attempt on July 15th, it has been proposed to be read in the same-date jointly in the presentations of the parliamentary inquiry submitted to the Turkish Parliament to investigate democratic political institutions, detentions and arrests, and other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. The first speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Mr Ahmet Yıldırım.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0049par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in regard to the matter expressed before the session, I strongly condemn the fact that 10 of our fellow MPs were taken hostage by the political power, that they were taken from the same party, that they were held in isolation with a full hostage application, that they were not allowed to visit them today, and that four of our deputies along with him were not allowed into Kandira district, and that this should not be prevented. I want to say that this has nothing to do with democracy, freedom of travel, constitutional freedoms. Precious lawmakers have given the state structure, color, culture, language, religion, religion, and the constant struggle to seek rights for those who, through the history of the republic, could not find a place to live freely in the cultural plurality and wealth of the state. Ret, denial, and violent search for rights have developed a more violent form of search and opposition, a process that, unfortunately, has resulted in the identity of weapons, blood, and pain in this country throughout the history of the republic. One of these issues, and most importantly, the Kurdish issue, has been 26 riots throughout the history of the republic, while these riots have been extinguished at some time, has become a reality of a country with unhappy majoritys, especially the happy minority, which has been exposed by the singularity and the nation's government paradigm. A part of the Kurds, unfortunately, introduced armed methods into the search for rights as a result of irresolved democratic rights when the canals were shut down, and in this country, blood, tears have revealed a social reality that cauterizes the hearts of all the people of the country. In the past 25 years, democratic demands have been difficult for Kurds to find space and expression in other parties, forcing their own organisational conditions, especially overcoming election alliances and independent candidates and antidemocratic election dams, which have come under the roof of parliament and adopted the form of politics on the legal, democratic political plane, expressing the problems of the people they represent. However, those who were unhappy in the country, the other ones, and the ones who gathered together four years ago, formed the HDP (HDP) with an organization formed by parliament from the locals under the name of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), who came to this parliament, which was the roof of all antidemocratic conditions in the November 7th and 1st elections, where all attacks were bombed, all the party offices and buildings were bombed, the candidates and party workers, and the party workers were bombed, despite the bombings of their rallies, by tearing up all the darknesss, and by raising their voices to this parliament, which is a representation of the democratic form of democratic politics, which is the roof of the people's will. But I have to say in particular that the 100-year-old social issue of the Kurdish peace issue in this country, which we can call a 100-year-old issue, is called a process of dialogue where blood stops flowing and young people don't die, has been blessed today for blood and tears in this country for the sake of the sole manification of political power, the guardianship, the centralism ambitions, and the country's decision from June 7th elections. When the HDP revealed its desire to solve all problems with a democratic society -- especially Kurdish -- with this pluralist identity -- with the desire to solve them with a democratic society opposition, the monogamy, centrist, sole guardians have been burned, and the blood has been spilled in the country today, unfortunately. Every time we convicted war policies, these embarrassing sentences related to the one-and-a-half-year conflicting process that emerged from the ruling ranks were used: "But we have killed more and more. There has been a race of scores over the deaths. We are going to scrape off the roots. We have faced a concept of security until the final member is finished. We are unfortunately faced with a reality of a government that boasts about it. Let's put it this way: war is a black hole. It's an economic black hole and a social black hole and a conscience, a moral, a social black hole, a black hole in the inside, and a black hole in the outside. Turkey can be an actor in the Middle East, where the paper is mixed with this Arab Spring, and the paper is mixed up again, but today, as a product of false foreign policy, when it stands back from Kurdish phobia and hostility, it is the result of hitting a wall in foreign politics as a result of domestic policy in the Middle East. Dear friends, especially for the ruling representatives, you must protest these practices of persecution and fascism before anyone else, and you must raise your voice. You don't have to think of it as an opposition, because we have to say that our friends who have been arrested today with political operations have been held hostage by the court's decision to ensure the freedom of a people with dignity and a lasting and honorable social peace in this country. They'll come out again with dignity, but the owners of today's practices will never, ever look at people in a democratic society created in the changing conjuncture when the conjunctural changes one day tomorrow. For that, we repeat: There is no need for you to object, to raise your voice, to think like us, there are some values in which you will never, ever, ever be sacrificed to office, position, chair, any worldly pleasure; these are human, moral, moral, moral, moral values. Let us put it this way: You may have set up this order of persecution through the judgments and courts that you have delivered today, but none of these will be in court, when the day of the end comes, the decrees of the law will not be able to save you, and the courts that you have made political today will never, never, ever tolerate these anti-fascist policies. Let's put it this way: I'd like to share with you the votes from the two elections in which our friends, who were taken hostage in a year and a half, were taken by the executives of the ruling parties, about the national will of the lawmakers, about the matter in which they had taken hostage in their language. Look, dear Selma River, dear Abdullah Zaydan and Dear Nihat Akdoğan Hakari were elected by 84.9% a year ago. Dear Leyla Union and Ferhat Encu were elected with 83.9%. My dear Idris Bauken and Nursel Aydoğan were selected with 77.7 per cent. Our beloved Co-Chair Figen Yüksekdağ was elected from the electoral district with 73.6 per cent. Our esteemed Co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş, came to parliament as the third-largest party of the Turkish Metropolitan, with 12.6 per cent of the vote around İstanbul. Those who put national will in their language need to think about it. This pressure, if you don't give up your hostage-taking policies -- not too much, the conjunctive will change -- this process that you are silent to protect your seats today, you will see that many of you will be brought to trial. And I'd like to share a document with you guys. It's an invitation to our friend Idris Bauken this morning. Where's it coming from? Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications. On December 4, we ask you to honor the groundbreaking ceremony of the Kahta-Narinje-Sivek road. Yes, my dear Idris Baluken is now in Kandira Prison with the honor of the people whose power of attorney you have taken. My dear Idris Baluken here does not honor any groundbreaking ceremony, but honoring freedom, peace, the struggle for democracy, head high, even in prison, he will come out with the same honor. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0050par0030	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0051par0031	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0050par0033	Mr. President, with accusations such as "single manpower", "putting the country in the process of war," "killing the individual until the end of the war,"
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0051par0034	Here you go, Mr. Mush. I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0050par0038	Mr. President, I'd like to say, first of all, that we don't accept the claims of the judge, that we reject them. AK PARTY is a power that has always represented pluralism, a party that has managed to get votes from all parts of society. So it's not just on one side of the country, but on the other side, it's the kind of power that gets a vote from all 81 states and is able to get a legislator out of almost all of the Republic of Turkey. In that respect, I'd like to say that we absolutely reject a claim like one man. Yes, our fight against terrorism will continue until the end of the last terrorist. Dear lawmakers, who are armed, who are on the mountain, who are martyring our public official, who are martyring the police officer, who are putting pressure on the citizen; you say, "Serve yourself." You say, "What will the state do at this point? What will the state do, what will do at this point?"
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0052par0042	He's slaughtering babies.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0050par0043	In Ankara, in Kızılay, while slaughtering six-month-old babies in the womb, will the state be left to watch? Of course, the fight will continue until all of these terrorists are finished. See, valuable lawmakers, the state has taken steps at the point of the solution process, the conclusion of this work, the end of terrorism. But, if you understand the solution process, the state won't allow it here if you understand taxing people under the name of tax, if you build so-called courts and punish people, the government won't allow it, if you dig holes and try to build a hegemonia area for yourself, the state won't allow it. If you try to push the solution process to a point like this, the state will say, "Stop!" and do it. What is now being done is a struggle against the destruction of this government's domain, the destruction of the domain of the state with a weapon, the attempt to break down. The Kurds are our own brothers. The issue here is not against Kurds, but against terrorists. I don't think it's... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we need to be aware of that.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0053par0049	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0054par0050	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0053par0051	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0054par0052	Yeah, part of the solution process was our party. But the preacher blamed our party, under certain allegations, with practices that had nothing to do with our party in the process of resolving it. I want to talk about teasing them.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0055par0053	Why don't you make a sound at them, Mr. Ahmet? Go out and condemn all those events.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0053par0054	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0054par0057	We've seen how many brothers and sisters the Kurds have in power and how many rights they'll live within the borders of this country, and yesterday we've seen your insufferability for three sentences of Kurdish under the roof of Congress as an example; you couldn't stand three sentences. Such a brotherhood can only be yours. For us, brotherhood has to be based on equality, truth, justice. Another thing: I wish you could say three sentences about national will by removing my speech from context.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0056par0059	I said it, I said it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0054par0060	I wish you'd said something about the numbers of our friends in the constituency that you dreamed of, that you dreamed of, that you never got, that you couldn't get.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0056par0061	Mr. Ahmet, what percentage do you get?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0054par0062	We claim that I don't know the judge in this country, and I don't respect it. It's not our party. Judgement is political, politicalized by political power, and our friends are taken hostage by you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0056par0063	I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0054par0064	As our friends are being held hostage by you, a colonial law, a prisoner's law is being held in refugee camps with a prisoner's law. A month has passed, and our friends are still in solitary confinement. This is an embarrassment to the democracy of this country. Any friend of yours is under arrest, and you have no doubt that we will show the same reaction as we did today. Other parties should have objected before us. They don't have a verdict, they don't have a verdict. Arrests are a precaution for the suspicion of extreme escape; anyone who understands a little bit of law knows that. For him, we never accept this as an arrest, but as a result of the policy of the palace and political power to take hostages. Something else doesn't mean anything to us. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0057par0067	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0058par0068	No matter what you see, it's what people see.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0054par0069	I'll come and defend you in prison when you're gone. You'll go, you'll go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0058par0070	I'm sorry I won't come visit you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0054par0071	If you don't come, I'll visit you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0058par0072	I'm not going, I'm not going.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0059par0073	We don't want to.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0058par0074	I'm not coming.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0060par0075	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0061par0076	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0060par0077	Mr. President, the trial is being held here by the courts.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0062par0079	Sure!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0063par0080	What courts?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0062par0081	Courts the President doesn't know or respect!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0064par0082	Independent courts
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0065par0084	Politically speaking, there's no point. The courts are there; the courts make their decisions, their practices are there. That's where you make your objections.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0064par0086	They're coup courts.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0066par0087	Bilal still hasn't gone to court. Why doesn't Bilal go to testify? Send Bilal, send him.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0065par0088	The other thing is, we're here on the basis of national will. I made my point at the national will point. We are the only people in Turkey to have elected MPs from all near 81 provinces.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0067par0089	What's that got to do with getting a congressman out of everywhere?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0065par0090	Out of respect for national will, we are now able and able to implement these democratic reforms in Turkey. From this point of view, no one has the right to speak to us at the point of national will. We would like to ask the speaker for the same support when terrorism is being fought in the region. If he can't even say "police bullets or something illegal," they're going to come out here and talk about civilian politics, talk about the area of civil politics...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0068par0092	You're the ones who rejected the motion to investigate.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0065par0093	...on the other hand, they're going to criticize us here before they can say a word to the organization they're in. Sorry, we don't accept that.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0069par0094	Okay, if the PKK did it, it'll be filed with an investigation motion, and whoever did it will be removed.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0068par0095	If he shows up with a motion to investigate, why are you refusing? Whoever did it gets taken out.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0069par0096	If the PKK did it, with a motion to investigate.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0070par0097	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0071par0099	There's a taunting of our party, our group. He says we can't say "PKK" or that we're having an affair. Obviously...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0072par0100	You're under my spell.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0070par0101	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş. I promise you in two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0073par0104	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the orator, the vice president of the group, are really going around a lot trying not to get into it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0074par0105	I'm in a lot, Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0073par0106	We'll give you our word on national will...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0074par0107	You can't. You have no right to speak here.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0073par0108	...but you have no right to speak to anyone and no right to speak to anyone.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0074par0109	I'm sorry, you don't.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0073par0110	At the moment, Mr. Deputy President of the Group is currently held hostage in a prison of one-quarters of the national will.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0074par0111	The national will is here.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0073par0112	If you're defending national will, you should've spoken as a parliamentary speaker to that hostage situation first. Taking hostages, instructing MPs who get votes from everywhere else is not considered a respect for the judiciary, for the national will.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0075par0113	What's "rehin" mean? And now you've got it out!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0073par0114	Also, we told you yesterday in the murder and murder of Tahir Elçi, and today we're saying: let's investigate whether it's PKK, DAEŞ, ISIS, State, Police, Military, Gang, whoever it is. You know, there's not a single suspect in that file until today. It's been a year, and those police officers haven't even testified as suspects, using a gun in front of the cameras. Don't speak without knowing, I suggest you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0076par0115	We've got two police martyrs.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0073par0116	If the perpetrator isn't found there, if that file hasn't found a single suspect in a year, it's that the murder is wanted to be closed. If the security forces hadn't been behind the murder, there would have been 40,000 perpetrators. Your manipulations, your speculations, have found no answer, and you're in vain. We said, "Come, let's look into it. We saw your hands yesterday. We saw your determination to find the murderer of a barmaster, a civil rights advocate and a peacemaker. We saw your reluctance and you said, "No." Whatever you say, you slaughter the national will today, and you murder it by the hand of the judge, and all of Turkey knows it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0077par0118	Turkey knows who's the one who blacked out the evidence.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0078par0119	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0079par0120	We reject all claims.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0077par0121	Who blacked out the evidence? Why didn't the prosecutors go to that area?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0078par0125	Members of parliament, the first speaker against the People's Democratic Party group proposal is İzmir MP Mahmut Attila Kaya.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0080par0127	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group against the valuable lawmakers' proposal of the group.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0081par0128	It's not "He De Pe," it's "Ha De Pe. " Let's say that we're not going to say "A Ka Pe" and we're not going to say "A Ke Pe."
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0080par0129	I hereby salute your high council with respect and love. We lost 11 children and 1 citizens in Adana Aladağ yesterday. In this case, our pain for our children who have died is too great, it's narrated, it's not identifiable, it's not painful. Mr. Group Vice President and the authorities of our government have made it very clear. I believe that the punishment of those with the smallest negligence will be among the most important duties of our government and our Parliament. Yes, the development of fundamental rights and freedoms in Turkey has been the ruling period of the EC PARTY, which has been most efforted to expand the democratic political field. Turkey's many unintended problems have again been solved by the EC PARTY governments. In many areas, the EC PARTY has taken historical steps during the Prime Ministership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Our nation has shown appreciation and appreciation for what has been done by bringing the AK PARTY to power on its own. These democratic moves, carried out during the EC PARTY administrations, were carried out by co-direction projects by all of our government's institutions, and the goal here is to make Turkey a powerful country where democracy flourishes. That's still the point at which we came today. The group's proposal, given by the group, shows that propaganda is being used in that direction -- even in the form of antidemocratic arrests -- by some Ha De Peίli lawmakers. First, we have to make a clear statement of one thing: the rule of the nation is unconditional. Under the roof of this assembly, every opinion can be expressed, every difference and world view finds its place and finds its place under this roof. But all these differences must be considered and expressed by taking the centre of the state of Turkey and the Republic of Turkey. Mr. President, good lawmakers, democracy is not only a goal and rhetoric, but a whole of methods. No member of parliament, elected by the votes of the public and entitled to serve under this great roof, can use the rights and privileges of the council to undermine democracy and discredit democratic methods. The people voted to serve in parliament, bringing solutions to Turkey's problems on democratic ground. However, in this process, we have all seen that some HA De Peli MPs have made the mistake of continuing their position using democratic ways with illegal and antidemocratic actions.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0082par0134	Are you a prosecutor or a judge?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0080par0135	No legal state will tolerate these actions, and that is what is happening today in Turkey. After July 15th, with the recommendation of our National Security Council, our Council of Ministers declared the State of Emergency, and with the support of the National Movement Party, the State of Emergency decision was issued. The goal in this State of Emergency is to ensure that the fight against the PKK and the DAEŞ are more effective.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0083par0137	That's not what the president said yesterday, we went to take down Esad.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0080par0138	And to that end, both our government and other institutions of our government continue to work intensively. Yes, after the July 15th process, we saw how clearly the PKK and the DAEŞ had entered into each other and were directed from one centre. Yes, each one of us, here on May 20, 2016, remember that we removed the immunity of 154 MPs for the ongoing files of our friends with a temporary clause that we added to Article 83 of our Constitution. Many of our friends -- Mr. State Bahçeli, leader of the National Movement Party, and Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, leader of the Republican People's Party -- also went and testified. But as far as Article 145 of the Penal Code, we all know that once immunity has been lifted, the law and procedure will be carried out for lawmakers as well as for the legal situation of a normal citizen, and in the same way, based on the principle of equality in the law, the CMK 145 -- as required and did not go and give their testimony -- if these statements were not given -- they would be forced to be brought in if they weren't. Look, at this point, especially here, each of us, in the previous process, we've all seen together: you will be tried in the European Court of Human Rights. If we're wrong, if we're wrong, we're already ready to answer to Turkish justice, to avoid it, and we have nothing to go on. (AK PARTY) Whatever judge called the prosecutor, all our deputies went and gave their statements to the great Turkish justice.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0084par0140	Where are the four ministers, the four ministers? Why didn't you give it to me on December 17th or 25th?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0085par0141	Why didn't you send the ministers?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0080par0142	But you will not recognize the judgment, justice of the state of the Republic of Turkey, I will not go to the deposition. You will say...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0084par0143	That's what the President says. Don't slander the President.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0080par0144	... I'm the MP, don't touch me, don't do anything to me...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0086par0145	It's not the prosecutor, it's not the judge, it's our problem, we're talking about the judgment that's walking by order.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0080par0146	Look, there's no looting, there's no looting. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) These are not acceptable things.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0087par0147	Tell the palace, the palace!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0080par0148	The Republic of Turkey is not a tent state, but a state with a thousand years of state tradition, and the independent courts of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0088par0149	It's hard to defend a lie, it's hard; it's dirty!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0080par0150	... And independent...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0089par0151	Independent
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0080par0153	... We see that his judgment -- whatever it takes -- runs that process fast.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0090par0154	You're not talking straight.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0080par0155	But, look, I know your problem, that's not your problem. After the detention process, you called in calls to the people of the region, to the Kurds living in other parts of our country...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0090par0156	Why did you call the public on the night of July 15th?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0080par0157	You said, "Get down." You said, "Get down." You said, "Get down." You said, "Go forward." You said, "No one has come out."
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0091par0158	Of course, you answer with fascism.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0092par0159	With curfews?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0080par0160	Look, you think -- you think you've made up a theory of balance -- let me put pressure on the citizens of the region there, use a gun, threaten them, and then they'll back me up. On June 7th, you may have gotten this kind of vote in your head, or on November 1st, despite the decline of your votes, you may have been elected as a member of the nation. But, look, I'm telling you this clearly from here: our citizens in that area, the Kurds in that area, they didn't vote for you because they feared your weapons; they wanted peace; they wanted their democratic rights and freedom to expand; they voted for you. What did you do?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0093par0161	Put your hand down. Please don't talk like that.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0080par0162	Since November 1st, in this Parliament, I, a member of the district of the district, have something like this about the problems of the citizens of the region, about the problems of the people of the region, about the people of the region, about one of the districts. We want a bridge from the Ministry, we want a road... I've never seen such a demand.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0093par0163	The bridge is your business.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0094par0164	What do we do with the bridge when people are dying?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0095par0165	They also destroy what's being done.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0096par0166	What can we do to stop the PKK's glorious fight against PKK, our government and our state and police, our security forces, and you have searched their path here.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0097par0167	Don't talk so much! You're talking about stupid things.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0098par0168	By burning Ataman the gift, you're fighting a glorious battle! Shame! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0099par0169	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0100par0170	Don't bother, don't bother, don't bother, don't bother. He's a preacher.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0098par0171	What kind of trouble?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0101par0172	Mr. President, please step in.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0102par0173	Look, as far as you're concerned, make this clear...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0103par0174	Don't raise your hand! Did you have a hard time confirming that? He speaks the truth.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0102par0175	It's not that the Kurds aren't voting because they're afraid of you or that our citizens in that area are afraid of you anymore, not because they're voting...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0104par0176	You burned a woman named Ataman. Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0103par0177	He's talking, what!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0102par0178	Mr. President, if you could step in...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0105par0179	Mr. Botan, Mr. Botan...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0102par0180	Mr. President, please step in.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0105par0182	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0106par0183	Mr. President, will you step in? They won't let the preacher speak.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0105par0184	I'm interfering.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0106par0185	Please, they won't let the preacher talk.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0107par0186	You've turned the country into a bloodbath.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0108par0187	You translated it!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0107par0188	Shameless men!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0108par0189	You're shameless!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0109par0190	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0110par0191	Do you know why the Kurds don't support you anymore?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0108par0192	You're going to promote terrorism, you're going to stand up for terrorism, you're going to talk...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0110par0193	Now they've seen your true face. There's an old deputy from Ha De Pe. What did he say about the Kurds? As soon as they didn't land on the bars, as soon as they didn't listen to your call to resist, they expressed it to the Kurds.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0108par0195	Yeah, bravo!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0110par0196	Our citizens who lived there saw it clearly.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0108par0197	What's happening to those Kurdish girls? What happens to the kids they took to the mountains?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0110par0198	The Kurds now have only one request: to get you off their backs. Get off their collars.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0111par0199	Look over there, over there. Tell your lies there.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0112par0200	From Turkey's collar... thieves, thieves!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0113par0201	You're going to fall.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0114par0202	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, none of these cases today have been like this, you know, talking on the road or anything like that. Here, look, there are 434 current cases of 55 members of the HA De Pe. Now, Selahattin Demirtaş, your co-chair, I didn't do anything. None of us have forgotten the events of October 6th or 8th.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0115par0204	258 people died on July 15th.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0114par0205	Look, let me make this very clear from here. Your other Co-Chair had his back on the PYD, the YPG, wasn't he? There's nothing wrong with that either, is there? Unappreciated.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0116par0206	You're leaning on El Nusra.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0115par0207	258 people died on July 15th.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0114par0208	Your MP who went to that terrorist's funeral after the bombing in Ankara didn't commit a crime, did he?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0117par0209	Who?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0114par0210	Look at all of them, we see them here. They'll pay for going to those funerals.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0118par0211	What about the weapons going to ISIS? You'll give it to him and you'll give it to him.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0114par0213	Look, the state of the Republic of Turkey is a great state and its judiciary is independent.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0119par0214	Judgement is yours.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0114par0215	Our judicial body is doing its due today.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0120par0216	If the judgment were independent, the Fetollahs wouldn't be sitting here today.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0114par0218	Know this clearly that the state of the Republic of Turkey will not be defeated and the Turkish nation will never bow.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0121par0220	Thank you, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0122par0221	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0121par0222	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0122par0223	Mr. President, by returning to our group from the beginning of the orator talk, you did this, you did this... I can count it one by one. It's all part of our group's...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0121par0224	Mr. Yıldırım, I promise you two minutes, and then I will promise Mr. Altay and Mr. Kerestecioğlu the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0122par0228	Thank you, Mr. President. The preacher of A Ka Pe will come out of here and say...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0123par0230	AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0122par0231	A Ka Pe, A Ka Pe. We never know the name of my party's party who doesn't know its name. He'll learn Turkish first. Is it a Ke Pe? Is it a Ka Pe?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0124par0233	AK PARTY, AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0122par0234	Look, he's saying he doesn't speak Turkish yet. Now, Mr. Hatip, I'm telling you straight out: come and see the district of Kurdish provinces for a few days, if you can feel how you conduct your campaigns, how you surround them, especially with armoureds, as if they were a colonial country. Know how you interfere with the smallest democratic act, the event with weapons, gases, non-proportionate force. What kind of democracy are you talking about in a district a congressman can't get into?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0125par0236	Who's doing that? The PKK is doing it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0122par0237	If you're talking about justice, the independence of the judiciary, if you have the heart to say two words to the president. About 10,000 judges in this country, we didn't throw out the prosecutor's 3,000 on terrorist charges. We don't know the Supreme Court, we don't respect you. We didn't say that. You'll know these things.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0126par0238	To the Supreme Court's decision, he said, "Don't twist it." The Constitutional Court has spoken to the verdict, said the verdict, not the court.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0127par0239	He said it was the Constitutional Court's decision.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0122par0240	Another thing: We didn't run the campaign by handing out pasta, coal, money; we ran it by the sweat of the poor people.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0128par0241	You threatened him with a gun.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0129par0242	You threatened him with a gun.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0130par0243	You're not convincing.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0131par0244	If not, we didn't spread superstitions over the office. We didn't run election campaigns over anyone's shoe boxes full of dollars.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0130par0245	Don't soil that bench with lies.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0131par0246	Every vote we got was as good as our mother's white milk.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0130par0247	Don't get that stand dirty with things that aren't real.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0131par0248	And you're talking about the election, come on, let's go! Don't appoint trustees.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0130par0249	We know what you are, us.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0131par0250	With regard to the mayors you've hired, if you have the guts, let's go to the elections in Diyarbakır, Mardin, Van, Batman, Dersim. Is your heart a place to choose?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0132par0251	He always eats.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0131par0252	He won't eat it!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0133par0253	We'll leave when the time is right.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0131par0254	But you run an election study on the appointed ones.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0134par0256	Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0135par0257	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0131par0258	Election, election... come on, let's go to the election.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0136par0259	We'll leave when the time comes, not at your request.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0137par0260	Ahmet Bey, the election will be on time, don't worry, we'll make the elections on time.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0131par0261	It's still three years away, isn't it?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0137par0262	We'll do it when the time comes.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0131par0263	You're in ruins, you're in ruins! You're running a place where you're not chosen.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0138par0265	Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0139par0266	Who the fuck are you?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0140par0267	And you got people to vote with threats, with threats.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0138par0268	Why are you digging a ditch?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0141par0269	Everyone knows whose tongs you are.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0142par0270	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0143par0271	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0144par0272	You collected votes from villages with threats, with threats.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0145par0273	You collected them with shoe boxes, shoe boxes full of dollars.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0144par0274	So you threatened to vote at gunpoint.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0146par0275	You dug a hole in election time!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0147par0276	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0148par0277	Mr. Mush, you can't hear anything.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0147par0278	Mr. President, in the speech of the orator, he has given our group severe criticism and bullying. I want a word from these taunts.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0148par0279	You have my word. Congressman, when you just said that, what do you promise by? According to the Civil Code. I also promise your group's deputy president, the group's deputy chairman, according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0149par0281	To the vice president of the group...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0148par0282	Please, don't beat around the bush.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0150par0283	He's getting from Pennsylvania, he's getting from Pennsylvania! Look, the man with the photo is taking the stand for Pennsylvania!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0151par0284	You and Pennsylvania are arms, not we; come to your senses.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0148par0285	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0152par0287	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, for one thing, we need to correct some descriptions. Every time he comes out here, he insists on describing the Kurdish provinces.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0151par0288	He's dreaming, he's dreaming.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0152par0289	Mr. President, members of parliament, there are 81 provinces in the Republic of Turkey, the names of these provinces are clear. Not only do we have Kurdish citizens or Turkish citizens living in our cities, we have people living in different ethnities in each city, and the definition of cities is stated in our Constitution and our laws. We reject such a fanatical, one-type understanding. They're always talking about one type. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm sorry, from colonial logic, I'd like to express that I once condemned this expression with a great disappointment, not a disappointment, but a great anger. It is the land of the state of the Republic of Turkey, where the sovereignty of the Republic of Turkey is. The state doesn't act on the understanding you're talking about in its own territory. What's he talking about, democracy? We got the votes by heart, he says.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0153par0293	Yeah, yeah, under the stairs, under the stairs.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0152par0294	All right, Mr. Ahmet, let me ask you something. What does one of the heads of the terrorist organization say in their statement? The HDP would not have received 5 per cent of the vote without us.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0154par0295	Who's to say, pick up all the people in the tomb and vote?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0152par0296	What's he saying? If it weren't for us, he wouldn't have gotten five percent of the vote.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0155par0297	Lies, ashes, lies. Prove it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0152par0298	Cemil Bayik made his point.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0155par0299	Lies, ashes, lies.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0152par0300	Did you say anything, did you say anything? He didn't. It's a statement from one of the heads of the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0156par0301	Then call it a lie.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0155par0302	I'm telling you, that's a lie, and that's a lie. He's lying.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0156par0303	Tell him he's lying. Tell him he's lying.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0157par0304	Dear friends, they can't say anything about this -- I've mentioned it many times before -- here. If you've got the heart, you'd say to one of the ring's ringleaders, "Get out of here! Who are you! We're running for office, and that's how we get the vote. You say, "Well, there's no such thing as a heart." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Why Not? If you put your back in there, they won't leave a man with a heart like that.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0158par0308	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0159par0310	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President has claimed that we're doing politics on one type and insurgent policies. Don't make fun of me.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0160par0311	I'm afraid so.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0161par0312	Even if you object to it, it's not gonna change. That's how it was registered.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0162par0313	I promise you one last time, Mr. Lightning, don't give me any more trouble. Then I'll make a promise to the group vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0163par0316	The good lawmakers are coming out, and here's what they're voting for, and they're walking away with humility. Look, the only thing you're doing is you're trying to make all the newspapers, radios, televisions into one form and sell your lies to the community like they're real; for days, you've been doing a perception operation on our mayors and lawmakers through questions that haven't been asked a single question. The other thing is, when they voted for peace and we fought... Look, it's very simple, regardless of interpretation, you have a prime minister who came in with an election on November 1st, who's been transferred to the internet -- very concrete -- who returns from the Netherlands on February 9, 2016 and answers the questions of journalists on the plane. If he didn't say that, Davutoglu, I'll go out and apologize to the entire General Assembly. He said, "I don't know if he told the journalist different on the plane because he didn't have a foot on the ground." He says: "When we're not in Dolmabahce, we're not in the elections, we're prepared for all security units in October 2014, and when we give instructions, you'll act." We said, "Who finished the peace, who ended the solution process, who started the dirty war; who started it; the Prime Minister is confessing."
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0164par0318	It's the word of a statesman who'll always be on the lookout for terror, okay? Always on the lookout for terror, not hostility.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0163par0319	He says: 'I have instructed you to prepare for war four months before Dolmabahçe.'
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0165par0320	The government's always got a security policy, anything that'll be ready. For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0163par0321	What are you talking about? You have decided to fight a dirty war long before the election, before the Dolmabahçe, when the solution process is over, not with peace, but with war, you can make your own.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0166par0323	What happened on July 22nd, who killed the cops?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0167par0324	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0168par0327	Mr. President, I'm not taking any more promises. Mr. Davutoglu is a high-value politician and statesman who has served as president of our party and served as Prime Minister. He may have made an evaluation on the plane -- I didn't see that statement.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0169par0328	Come in, look it up on the Internet.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0168par0329	There's a lot of information coming to the country, information coming from intelligence sources, information coming from security sources...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0170par0330	There's a danger of ISIS.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0168par0331	...the complaints are coming; they have to evaluate them all, a prime minister, and here you always have to be on alert for the safety of the citizens' lives and property. In that sense, there's nothing more natural than the state being prepared and vigilant about an attack on any attack, assault, or attack on a citizen's life and property security.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0171par0333	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0172par0336	Mr. President, I've actually been promised to express my regret. Dear lawmakers, the heated debates in Parliament's negotiations are a ritual, no matter what, I have no objection, but I observed a tactical and strategy change today at the majority party. So, either our MP, who spoke in the HDP group proposal -- and I love him very much -- gave a speech at the Assembly, the General Assembly, that would fuel the tension. And the full half hour of Congress has passed through these discussions, so let's say there's nothing wrong with that, but I don't find such arguments in Parliament when the body of our 13-14 babies is in the middle. However, I also wonder if I didn't misunderstand our MP speaking in the group proposal of HDP, who went to State Bahçeli to give the statement, Kemal Kilicdaroğlu went away, and you could have gone away. Is that what he said, or did I misunderstand? So if the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MPs had gone to testify, they wouldn't have been arrested.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0173par0338	Mr. Altay, that's your comment.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0172par0339	No, I mean, if they're arrested for not going to the deposition, that's weirder. No, they were going to be arrested, whether they left or not. I've also found it useful to correct this misunderstanding. However, again, I consider it the main opposition responsibility to invite the General Assembly to argue in a more reasonable environment on such a day when all Turkey is crying blood. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0174par0342	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0175par0343	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0174par0344	Mr. Rock, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0175par0345	Mr. President, my statements are very clear. The judiciary is independent, and the process is very clear in its path.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0174par0347	Okay.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0176par0348	Very independent, very independent.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0177par0350	We trust the independent Turkish judiciary.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0174par0351	On behalf of the HDP Group, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0178par0353	Mr. President, we don't want to discuss any other tensions in this country while 13 children are burned, but it's also our ten members inside. I'd like to point out that the reason why those children are burned today is because, in fact, the policies of the government in this country about the child; we've already expressed that in the beginning, and we've already had our first conversation about that. Now, no one was afraid of judgment. No deputy of ours was in the middle and his struggle was unknown, all of it was obvious, and we said, "In fact, let's raise immunity for everyone." But we know very well why immunity has been removed. We've passed us, in this country, right now, really, no one has any confidence in the judiciary that's actually turned into AKP's legal offices; there's no trust in lawyers today, maybe, even in the corners where they're staying, there's no trust in judges, there's no trust in prosecutors. HDP was the hope of democracy in this country, the hope of peace, and on June 7th, people voted for it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0179par0356	You murdered that hope.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0178par0357	Indeed, in fact, if women were free in this country, if the children were protected, if they were not abused, if those Kurdish provinces -- especially Şırnak -- were not burned down and destroyed -- there would be no oppressive regime in this country. That's what we object to, and in fact, the breath that brought back to that criticized process of resolution into this society is once again felt by society, just as it is felt by military families, as it is felt by the family of every guerrilla who dies, it is felt by power for everyone, if it is felt by all civilians. That's what's going to bring profit to the country, and that's how the economy goes down, and that's why our children are being abused, and that's why everyone suffers. The only thing we need today is to make peace in this country together. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0179par0359	And the market of the LORD hath passed, and drive thy donkey to Niğde.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0180par0360	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Members of parliament, the second speaker in favour of the group's proposal is İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0181par0367	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. My speech begins with the mercy of the 11 children and one of them who burned to death in Adana. Of course, there's a lot to be said about this, but the funerals are still there, so let's not talk about it today. My dear friends, Turkey faced a coup attempt on July 15th. We know we've been through this in this Congress, here, in the flesh. Who did the coup, how did the research commission get set up to investigate it, the courts are going on. But we know more or less what happened. The government said: "I will declare a state of emergency in order to fight this organization. As the Republican People's Party Group, there is no need to declare a state of emergency -- all party groups opposed to the coup, issued joint declarations, acted together -- that Turkey will do whatever it takes to fight this organization. We said there is no need for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but the will of this Assembly, the ruling party, has declared a state of emergency. Our constitution is clear, my dear friends, what powers does the government have when it is declared a state of emergency, and what matters may be related to the state of the state of emergency, but unfortunately, the government has been opportunistic. In terms of state of emergency or extraordinary circumstances, you've really burned a lot of driers with age. No victims. He said, Mr. President. It's not that, friends, there are victims, victims come to your door every day; it's obvious. You're not limited to that, so you've expanded, you've expanded, you've expanded, you've arrested a lot of intellectuals, writers, journalists, or prosecutors have arrested, let's say, independent courts. Everyone's laughing, there's an independent court. In this country, everyone is laughing, my dear friends, and the ruling party MPs are laughing. Isn't that sad, fellas? Look, they've all been arrested. There are newspapers in this country that don't have very few businessmen, and don't get government contracts. You've arrested all the writers, executives of one of those newspapers or arrested independent courts, my dear friends. You arrested politicians. Now, I'm never going to get into any of the arguments you just had, that debate, that image, that image, it's clouding the Great National Assembly of Turkey, the dignity of you lawmakers, my dear friends. It's as if the ruling party chose it as a tactic, and it looks like it's going to go all the way to the presidential referendum, but it's not going to end, my dear friends, it's wrong, it's not acceptable. Now, everyone commits crimes, and everyone who commits crimes is judged without discrimination. The members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are clear on how to stand trial. I didn't vote yes, I'm telling you clearly here, but the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has lifted immunity. Therefore, the lawmakers will be tried on a limited basis from those files; this is clear, clear. A group of lawmakers didn't go to testify, a group of lawmakers did, but our group's deputy just testified, there's no reason not to go to testify, my dear friends, there's no reason for arrest; that would be revenge. The government doesn't take revenge. Look, you're doing the same revenge for arrested journalists and writers. Yesterday, one businessman died of a heart attack in prison; he was, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know him, I don't know his name, but I visited some journalists, they're sick, I can give them their names: one is Ali Bulaç, one is Aslı Erdoğan, and one is Şahin Albay, and one is seriously ill. Now, we're not saying don't judge them, we're not saying don't judge lawmakers, they're going to do the legislature, auditing duties that this nation has given them until their crimes are stable. The Constitutional Court has a ruling, and that's the principle of democracy, that's the law. That's what we say, my dear friends. Look, we're fighting terrorism. Of course, this country has security issues, of course there are terrorist organizations, there are terrorist organizations, they're fighting with guns, and security forces will fight them. But this fight will be within the law. Look, because we're saying this, you can somehow parenthesize terrorism, wrong, dear friends. In your hands, Turkey is evolving into the state of state of emergency, where we've left the state of emergency. You've secured everything, everything, my dear friends, you've taken every subject into safety parentheses, everything. Sir, the Kurdish issue, the European Union, the dollar issue, the airport issue -- whatever you think -- you've taken democracy, human rights, everything into security parentheses. You've reached a point where you've removed power from the nation's sole representative, a nation's fetishism, a national will fetishism. You've got 49 percent of the vote, of course you're representatives of the nation, but 51 percent on the other hand is the nation's representative. But according to this new security concept you've made, you've made almost everyone, almost everyone, an internal enemy, and you treat them like internal enemies. This is wrong, my dear friends. There's no end to this. Look, for the head of this country's main opposition party, the ruling party's secretary-in-chief, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, has become a national security issue, and there has been no other sentence as unfortunate as he said. What kind of democracy will you have without opposition? If you don't want opposition, if you see the leader of the main opposition party with a national security problem and send him to prison, what will you do in this country? What kind of democracy do you intend to build, my dear friends? Could this really be called democracy? Look, the citizens of this country can commit any crime, or terrorism. You will apply law to these people. No enemy law, dear friends, no revenge, no such thing; that is extremely wrong. The Justice and Development Party, I see, puts a bullet in its own heel. Look, you're from the Sheikh Edebali tradition. Remember what Sheikh Edebali said to Osman Bey. The opposition can also be very critical, and you will be calm, my dear friends. How was what just happened on that council bench received by our citizens, the citizens watching us on TV? What did we save, my dear friends, on the 15th of July? Didn't we save democracy? But isn't this the great House, my dear friends, the most important institution of democracy, the center of the nation's will? Do you consider it normal, my dear friends, that this great House should be so worthless by the members of the High Assembly? Look, everybody needs to come to their senses. We're all on this boat, we're all on this ship. If this ship goes down, we all go down. Oh, if this debate by the Justice and Development Party, this tension, this polarization policy, is seen as a strategy, then this strategy is wrong, my dear friends. Look, I'm gonna say something now, but don't be mad. Now, you told our president that your general security problem is the most basic national security issue in this country is this policy of yours. So going somewhere with the polarization policy is the country's biggest national security problem, my dear friends, to divide the nation in two with this tension policy, to provoke nationalism, to provoke emotions, to get a president out of here. Look, we don't talk about names, but the presidential office of one person, these discussions that walk through the presidency of one person, are seriously pushing this country into the national security problem, my dear friends out there. Well, I'm asking you one thing: until the last person is left, we'll fight until the last terrorist remains. You say that terrorism, yes, in a sovereign country, there is no way that weapons can be in any way other than security forces, and if there is, security forces will take the gun away from him. But I'm asking you, as a result, there is a problem called the Kurdish issue. Do you believe you can solve this matter by killing the last terrorist with all the security policies? What does wisdom, logic, and experience in the world tell you about this? This is a eunuch, my dear friends. What you're doing in the fight against terrorism is an embodiment, and it's the biggest national security problem for this country, my dear friends. There's no way out. Everyone must come to their senses, Turkey's Grand National Assembly must not be devalued. We need to discuss all these issues here, we need to discuss them, because this country is ours, in Turkish, in Kurdish, all of us. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0182par0386	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. The second and final speaker against the group's proposal is Mr. Hakan Sergeant. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0183par0390	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I pray to God's mercy for our children who lost their lives last night because of the hand incident in Adana, and to their grieving families. It is my hope that he will not cause us this kind of suffering again. Congressmans, I have been sworn in against the HDP group proposal. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. When we look at the reason for the HDP group proposal, we see statements of judicial activities in this country as if nothing had happened, that the MPs who were arrested were completely arbitrary and were arrested, like white spoons out of milk, being falsely accused and unjustly arrested. These expressions really amaze you. In fact, before and after all, it's clear to everyone what happened in this country by the work of ditch and pit politics, who took part in what activities, who was involved in the words and actions that touched the nerve endings of our nation. First of all, I would like to point out that the state of the Republic of Turkey has seen a lot of difficulties, has faced many treacherys, but this is the first time that my blind eye has experienced unsightly attitudes like your finger. Members of parliament, especially after the June 7th elections, we need to determine the support of the region's people to the HDP, rather than representing it in the field of politics, that the separatist terrorist organization has been using its dirty intentions. Remember, in this process, the terrorist organization's words about the start of a revolutionary public liberation war, and then the attempts to invade cities -- I quote, HDP Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş's ▪ Gizre, Sur, Nusaybin, Silopi are heroically resisting, these people do not submit. Tomorrow, when the history of the Kurdish people is written, these days will be noted in a very special way. Cizre, Sur, Silvan, Nusaybin, Gever, Kerboran, Derik, Cleopatra, Şırnak are really making history. We remember very clearly today that you supported the terrorist group with statements that would be on the bench. Again, these eyes have seen and have always heard of other Co-Chair Figen Yüksekdağ, who will say that the politics of ditchs and pits have won them votes. Again, in the process, some MPs choke you with their spit. We know how to turn the AK into you. It's not possible to forget their words. This country, this nation, has witnessed the presence of lawmakers carrying a terrorist's gun in its car, even protecting its weapon under the name of the MP.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0184par0397	Even the D.A.'s office denied it. Shame, shame!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0183par0398	Congressmans, this and many other words, actions, and activities have always happened in this country. This is a state, a powerful state, a state with traditions. This state has laws, rules. If what's done is a crime, there's no more looking at the perpetrator's label here, and everyone is equal in front of the law and the law. If a person commits a crime, he should also know that he will answer in front of the court. The fact that they've ignored the legal proceedings conducted under judicial activity today and made the arrests which have been carried out by making it look like an attempt to intimidate the political opposition, is nothing more than that the people who have come up with these allegations are trying to deceive themselves. On the other hand, when we look at the group proposal, the justification that these investigations and arrests occurred after the July 15 coup attempt is completely baseless. Although we know about backdoor diplomacy, we also know about the cooperation of the White Initiative Platform, but it's not today's topic. Congressmans, we discussed immunity here months ago, we discussed latitude, we discussed everything, and in the end, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey decided the removal of immunity not only with the votes of the EC PARTY, but with the votes of the members of other political parties. At the end of this process, the immunity of HDP MPs was not only removed, but the immunity of lawmakers from other political parties was removed. Everyone went and testified in accordance with the call of the judgment, and they continue to be judged. However, even though they petitioned the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for removal of immunity, it is not possible to make sense of the whining of politicians today who challenge the judiciary by being a draft bully. Members of the law, there may be a reading of intent, but I think these whinings made today by people are caused by a feeling of deception. It is a clear manifestation of the loan given to those who are our allies, both after July 15th and after these arrests, to take a full stand for terrorism. They thought that the European Union and some other countries would adjust to Turkey and Turkey would submit. They forgot one thing: they forgot the country's love, and they forgot Recep Tayyip Erdogan. What did he say, Mr. President, in the lines of Akif? Ever since I was born, I've been in love with you. I've never been on a leash. If I'm a golden tulip, who says I'm a meek sheep? / It may be cut, but my neck won't come to pull. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Congressmans, I'm not here to make a legal assessment of the arrests. What I've seen is that the judgment continues its work in its own place. I'd also like to remind you that as far as I know, there are lawmakers who are arrested by HDP MPs with files on them, and I know that even those who have been questioned are more than those who have been arrested. The judge arrested some of them and released some of them for trial without arrest. So the judge makes a unlawful, unlawful decision in terms of the arrests, and makes a legal decision on those who are not arrested? How do we explain this contradiction? In essence, the judiciary is doing its job within its own framework, and there is no way that the House will investigate and investigate the issues under Article 138, which are still under trial. I salute you, dear brothers and sisters, with such feelings and thoughts, against the motion to investigate.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0185par0406	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0186par0407	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0185par0408	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party has suggested that you vote...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0187par0409	No, sir, I asked for your word.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0185par0410	You want a promise?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0187par0411	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0185par0412	Yes, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0187par0413	I mean, during the entire conversation, he's been taunting our party, especially our hostages, who are on trial. That's why we want words. Ahmet Yıldırım will speak.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0185par0414	Yes, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0188par0418	Thank you, Mr. President. Everyone does politics as well as their own democratic caliber. Yes, on death, blood, tears, you may have staged a policy on more gangrene of a hundred-year-old societal wound. You may have blessed the death of young people, the blood. Despite all of this, we know that world experience offers thousands of examples of the solution of such social issues in human history. Now we understand that this power can only exist on the politics of persecution, blood and violence. Other than that, he's constantly raising his level of cruelty because he doesn't have a chance to exist. You're talking about everyone's accountability. If only you'd been kind enough to send those four ministers. Why don't you just send in the people who filled those shoeboxes with dollars?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0189par0420	The shoe boxes came out on July 15th.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0188par0421	Why don't you just send out the people who count 30 million euros on those phones? If we had realized that in this country, the judiciary was independent, not neglected. Judgement isn't independent, it's neglected. Another thing, we will insist: You have passed through the womb of Goebbels, who said, "Live, lie, lie, lie, and tell clearly in the media operations you singled out, and then lie 40 times, and then become a reality." What if it's not...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0190par0423	You're the ones who read it. You know him, you know him best. With their denial policies, you deny everything that's been done, everything.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0188par0424	Look, I'm telling you, the preacher came here, he said, and I'm not going to apologize, I promise you, I'm going to resign. If you show me a prosecution file that says you're carrying a gun about any member of our MP, I promise you I'll resign.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0191par0425	Is that you? Is that you? Is that you?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0188par0426	Even the prosecutor denied you said that. Therefore I say: You have learned from Goebbels, and have learned falsehood, and lie.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0192par0428	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0193par0429	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0194par0430	Mr. President, before we roll call...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0192par0431	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0193par0432	He wants word to buy time, give it to him after roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0194par0433	No, will you, Mr. President? Mr. President, we want a word.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0192par0434	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0194par0435	Mr. President, the speakers here will use their statements, of course, but you've gone through the deterrents of lying. No sir, you're lying. We reject statements like that, we don't accept any of them, we don't even feel the need to answer them.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0192par0437	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Mr. Timberboy's in the system. Mr. Altay, you're standing, but the group spokesman... Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0195par0440	I'm just saying it's very short, in the same way. As the minister spoke, he said: "There are more witnesses than those who have been arrested. There is no such reality, so the three MPs were only released. And they say, really, there is no lie, but even in the trial, Mr. Faysal Yellowstar says there is no gun in the car. But that's not politics. So just keep lying and say it 40 times and some things don't come true. I wanted to express it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0192par0442	Well, thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. The People's Democratic Party has proposed a group...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0196par0449	We had a roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit02spe0192par0450	...before you vote, there's a roll call, and we'll make it happen. Mr. Altay, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Ýrgil, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Kayşoglu, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Kara, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Köse, Mr. Akaydun, Mr. Bozkurt, Mr. Secem, Mr. Tekin. That's 20 MPs. Now, I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit03spe0192par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the People's Democratic Party Group, the roll call on demand was not enough.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit03spe0197par0003	Mr. President, we're withdrawing our request for roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit03spe0192par0004	The roll call?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit03spe0197par0005	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit03spe0192par0006	Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." In the 1st place, under the National Ministry of Education's Decision on the Organization and its Missions, and under some Law and Law, drafting amendments in the Law and Law Act, under the Law Act of Public Law and by the Law of Erkan Akçay, under some Law and Law, under the Law of Peace and Law, we will negotiate the amendments to the Law, under which there is an amendment to the Law, under the Law and the Law of the Parliamentary Parliamentary Minister, Ruitarian Ersoy and Nationalist Movement Party Group of Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In the past session, Article 405, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code, was adopted in the second chapter of the Law Bill. Now, there are three motions on Article 51, which are of the same nature. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 51 of the current 405 rows be removed from the draft text of the bill. Metin Lütfi Baydar Ceyhun İrgil Mustafa Ali Balbay Haydar Akar Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Mustafa Tuncer The signatures of the other motion are: Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy The signatures of the other motion are: Ages Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ziya Pir Ayhan Bilgen İmam Taşçıer Altan Tan Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree. We don't agree. The first speaker on the same motions is Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Tan. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit03spe0198par0046	Mr. President, lawmakers, the issue of national education is the biggest issue in this nation, this country. Of course, there's a black humor in our memory: I'd have handled it very well if it weren't for these schools by a minister of Ottoman education of the Ottoman era. A lot of issues have been achieved in Turkey, a lot of issues have been put in order within themselves, but unfortunately, the issue of national education has not been resolved. Whatever state and nation in the world, from the Japanese to the Germans, from the U.S. to the British and the French, if it's made any progress, first it's made a schematic of the education system. Today, only in the developed countries of Europe, two-thirds of the students studying in secondary schools study at vocational schools, but in Turkey, unfortunately, a young child is studying for another four years after 4+4+4, studying for years in a row, finishing college, or finishing 12 years of first, middle and high school education, but he is not getting any formalisation, he cannot. The 14-year-old AKP government also boasts of many things -- bridges, roads, Marmaray, submersible tunnels -- but unfortunately, every year in training, the regulation changes, the textbooks change, and another minister reverses everything that the previous minister of the same party has done, and so on and so forth. I've been a professional parent for twenty-seven, twenty-eight years; I mean, from the day my first child started elementary school until today -- I still have kids in middle school -- I'm a 28-year parent, I retire in 25 years. I don't know how many times in these 27, 28 years I've forgotten how many times this curriculum and education system has changed. So if you start, you tell this story from the day you sent your first child to school for the next 28 years. There's no way that anything can be put in order now, without being taught proper information, without being raised, without having to do so. Our biggest problem today, unfortunately, is still the education and the courthouse system. All our other problems come after that. Dear friends, it's a second issue; these are recent dismissals. Only over 20,000 teachers have been cancelled, so they won't be able to work in a private school anymore, and they won't be able to open a day care center. Here, the handle is mixed with the straw. We said, "Don't get confused. First there's an appeal, then there's a reinstatement, and then there's a reassignment. Dear friends, in these matters, there must be a measure of fairness, a proper examination, research, the personality of crime and crime, the degree of responsibility. So with the logic of these last three or four months, if we go in the form of puzzles, believe it or not, we're going to turn our educational system upside down. We don't have a lot of teachers in our schools right now. A teacher -- let's say -- returned a month later; the children's order, the mind, the system are all messed up, and there's no telling how far it's going to go, dear friends. For him, it is a matter of a nation, a nation, a nation, a nation, a century, two centuries -- a power, a state, a party -- that cannot put the education system in order; and nothing can be improved unless it is put on the right path. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit03spe0199par0052	Thank you, Mr. Tan. Second speaker on the same motions, İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Erdem, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit03spe0200par0056	Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge to the National Movement Party Group on Article 51 of the Law drafting amendments to certain Laws and Laws in accordance with the provisions of the Ministry of National Education of 405. I salute the Veterans' House. Dear MPs, 12 people, including 11 female students and one staff, died in the fire in the girl's dorm in Aladağ district of Adana. Sema, Gamze, Tuğba, Zeliha, Betul, Heaven, Sümeyya, Nurgül, Sevim, İlknur, Bahtinur, God's mercy and patience for our children. I wish our wounded children a speedy recovery. What is happening in all of our minds? It has surely raised the question. I'm sure it's one of the most important tasks in all educational institutions, not just in the dorms, but in which the measures necessary for occupational safety should be carefully implemented and must be monitored. The small bodies that are entrusted to us are sacred. It is our duty to uphold this blessing, and it is our duty to take care of our children. My heart is burned, and my Lord shall not test any parent with the pain of a son. Education is an act of adopting the national, spiritual values of a society into growing generations, and today new goals, dimensions, and functions are being installed. The boom of information, which is the result of rapid advances in scientific and technological fields, is developing the sociocultural and socioeconomic structures of societies even more rapidly. Education is a functional institution that is affected and affected by changes such as social, economic, cultural, political, and technological beyond the transfer of culture with its functions. If a country, a society, wants to develop and improve itself, first of all, it has to give its nation a quality and a healthy education. Otherwise, it's inevitable that society will become prisoners and prisoners. The education of the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk (Education) is that he either makes a nation live in a free, independent, glorious, high society, or leaves the nation in captivity and misery. The importance of education has been highlighted enough. After he founded the Ataturk republic, he introduced this republic to the new generations through the education system he had established. If it weren't for the teachers and the educational system established with the republic, I'm afraid we'd be living in the blind well of ignorance today. He gave the national sovereignty of the Turkish nation directly to the nation of Ataturk, stressing that there is a strong educational system as the only way for this glorious, glorious generation, who loves its homeland, its nation, its flag, to continue. Therefore, a national educational system, which is the first step in the republic, has enabled national education. Dear lawmakers are not the same as an educated person and an uneducated person's view of life, interpretation of events, and thinking about things as well as their standard of living and resources. People who are used and serve someone's interests without realizing it are basically uneducated because it's very simple to deceive and use an uneducated person. Uneducated people believe not in life's existence, but mostly in superstitions imposed on his head as unchanging truth. An uneducated man doesn't care if the man he's going after has leadership and leadership qualities. You can take him in any direction you want, use him for any purpose you want. So I have to emphasize again from this bench: education is the most important, but the content of the education curriculum. The Ministry of National Education is in great position. If our country is to go to an enlightened future at a level of prosperity together, the Ministry of National Education must carry out its duties. It's not enough to make a law, but it's important that these laws be rewarded in practice. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit03spe0201par0065	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. The third speaker on the same motions is Mr. Mustafa Tuncer, MP of Amassian Congress. Your time is five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Tuncer.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit03spe0202par0070	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on Article 51 of the Law Bill 405. I salute the High Council. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan explained that we went in there to end the reign of Esed, the tyrant who was terrorizing the state. This statement is the triumph of Parliament's will. Parliament has given the government authority to fight ISIS, PKK and other terrorist organisations and to ensure our border security. This statement is a violation of the Constitution, a violation of Parliament, an open declaration of war for another country, which belongs to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and cannot be transferred. The Turkish Armed Forces are advancing towards El Bab. Assad is in Damascus, 407 kilometers away. This expression also has no credibility, it's a symptom of hallucinations. Dear lawmakers, education is described in scientific literature as its broadest sense of self-fulfilling. Education is the basic tool that prepares the individual for community living and for the future. In this way, it may be considered the cornerstone of a society. This fundamental element has been a bleeding wound to our country since long ago. It's almost impossible to find an area that's not a problem with our education system. The source of educational problems with such a vital function lies in the policies followed in education. The political blockade on the education system is one of the most important reasons for a permanent reduction in education budgets, a reduction in quality in public schools. During its rule, the AKP looked only at education for political purposes, and ignored the educational-economic relationship. Economic development and the development of education have a shifty relationship. The reason the backward countries are unable to develop is because they do not care about education investments. The continued decline of the budget to education investments since 2002 suggests the AKP's view of education. Members of parliament, in the past, the area of education that has been abandoned to a certain congregation and has been beaten to the death of secularism is being reshaped by the political power today. The commercialisation and privatisation of education, the collection of money under various names, the abandonment of state schools to private educational institutions, the determination of education policies based on the educational-piastical relationship, and the rise of public education from their pocket in a distinct way continue without cutting speed. Do you think the educational institutions were taken from the congregation today? There were other congregations. Sadly, the disaster in Adana burned all of our lungs. Today, the government will only condemn this tragedy, and our young children will remain dead. You don't build schools, you don't build dorms, you don't maintain security, you don't guard dorms. As you can see, education isn't just about building buildings, it's about thinking about integrity. In education, again, everything you do as new comes back to us as a problem. The total number of students increased by 4+4+4. In private teaching institutions, there has been an increase of 119.1%. This increase in the number of students in private schools has made it clear that they have been removed from public education. With this educational policy, the children of families who lack material resources are less likely to receive qualified education. Again, the Minister of Transport gave the good news that more tablets, more intelligent boards, would be carried on with Project Conqueror, which was built in time to bring them to the side, even at the cost of being unexplained. Is this really the good news of education? Is it possible to go to school and talk about progress when there are students who have no place to live, girls who can't go to school, kids who can't go to school, kids who don't have teachers? Speaking of education, while our Minister is here, I say the opening of the university of economic and administrative sciences at Merzifon is published with the Official Gazette, and the decision has been made, but so far this faculty has not been opened and Merzifon has continued to be punished. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit03spe0203par0080	Thank you, Mr. Tuncer.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit03spe0204par0081	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit03spe0203par0082	I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit04spe0203par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough during the vote of the same proposals on Article 51 of the Law Bill 405. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the same motions... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, motions are not accepted. We'll resume the talks of Bill 405. Commission? Here. Government? Here. I submit the 51st Amendment to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three separate motions on Article 52: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the terms of "training" in Article 52 of the current 405 rows of the Bill of Law shall be replaced by "Admissible Education." Metin Lütfi Baydar Ceyhun İrgil Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Mustafa Ali Balbay Haydar Akar Kemal Zeybek Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third joke of Article 52 of the main Law Bill (1/711) be changed in the following way. Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Deniz Depboylu Argi Erdem Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu "Aday is studying in vocational and technical secondary schools and institutions with students who are trained in vocational education, apprentices, businesses, and students who are subject to complementary education or field education, while insurance premiums are covered by the budget of universities, which are covered by vocational and technical institutes of higher education with the Ministry, above 75% of the minimum wage." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 52 of the Law Bill 405 be removed from the draft text. Ages Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ziya Pir Ayhan Bilgen İmam Taşçıer Behçet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Adıyaman MP Behçet Yıldırım on the motion.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit04spe0205par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on Article 52 of Bill 405. I salute the General Assembly. The government, which feels the need to make extra judgments on academic personnel today because the disciplinary provisions of Law 657 were not enough for its employees, and the Law 657 has given it all of its harms, except by the ordinances of the law, which Allah would not tolerate. The National Ministry of Education suspended 11,300 teachers due to union action, while only the extradition of 6,007 teachers shows that the unlawful attitude towards non-responsive education workers continues. More than 500 teachers were suspended, including teachers and 57 public workers were expelled. Those suspended were reinstated after three months of torture under threat of investigation. For three months, these people have been seriously legally victimized over these suspensions. In the same way, it continues to be illegal about the workers who were expelled. As long as you don't take these exports into office, you won't be able to undo this injustice, this unlawfulness, this sacrifice unless you remove this discharge order. More than 100 members of the Voice were expelled in Şanlıurfa, where I was also a member. I met with an exported doctor friend, and he told me that at one point they called me to court, and they say that you took good care of the people from Rojava. When is it a crime for a doctor to take care of his patient, friends, and physician friends among you? Yes, that question was asked to my doctor friend, my general surgeon friend: "You have taken good care of your patients." Yes, I looked carefully at my patients, the people from Rojava, at Suruç, at the door, in the tent cities; and it was my fault, too, my friends. Secondly, Mr. Demirtaşa, who had been associated with the Rojava incident, threw the Milleti into the street. There was only one of Mr. Demirtaş's remarks that didn't put the nation on the street, there were mortars coming from Rojava, there were international calls, there were ▪ Rojava fell, fell. There were those who said, with all these things the Kurds had been hit in the ar vein, the Kurds had been thrown into the street, the Rojavas had been helped out of the ISIS. In Adıyaman, the people came to the street. So in the meantime, I took a risk so people on the street wouldn't do anything. Well, there's an AK PARTY MP in you right now, who was then the mayor of the AK PARTI province. Let there be nothing in Adıyaman, look, people are walking, 3,000, 5,000 people are walking in the streets, and we took the initiative to make sure nothing happened. One person's nose didn't bleed. And I'd like to thank the deputy who's sitting here with you right now. We handled the process very well. If Salahattin said so, no one had to die. The state is responsible for the death of these people who did not take these measures. 52 friends have died, and most of these 52 are participants. It wouldn't be so unfair. Again, with these suspensions, with exports, there is no sense of trust in law and justice in society. The aim, not just the work life of the workers, but the aim, all the gains of the workers, is basically the organization that leads to these gains. Look, when we look at the exports at Adıyaman, they've all been expelled from labor organizations, unions, and investigations. 6 members of the executive board of seven members, including co-chairs of the Adıyaman branch, co-chairs of the SES Adıyaman branch, BES Adıyaman diplomatic mission, DIVES Representative President, have been subject to investigations and expelled because they have been engaged in legal organisation. In the interest of not seeking the rights of one man in the unions, certain unions and generally left, opposing unions were targeted. It is a policy of oppression and intimidation on left, opposition segments to these workers who have nothing to do with the coup attempt, and with thousands of workers from their jobs, students and students in particular have been victimised. And there's something said every day during the return of your fellow workers: "Today it will be taken, tomorrow it will be taken; today it will be taken, tomorrow it will be taken. " There have been politicians trying to collect political rants. That's wrong, too. Those guys have really been victimized about this, too. It should be our job to support the workers' rights struggle to the end and always be there for them. Otherwise, it is necessary not to engage in actions and activities which have turned into propaganda in the province of the ruling lawmakers who created all these victims, but to be in solidarity with the workers who are returning to their jobs as a result of their struggle, and in every sense. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit04spe0206par0051	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit04spe0207par0053	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit04spe0206par0054	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit05spe0206par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Adıyaman MP Behcet Yıldırım and his friends' amendment motion, which was issued on Article 52 of the Law Bill 405, could not be reached during the vote. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, I'm running the voting through electronics. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We'll resume the talks of Bill 405. The commission is here. The government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third joke of Article 52 of the main Law Bill (1/711) be changed in the following way. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu (Hatay) and his friends "Aday is studying in vocational and technical secondary schools and institutions with students who are trained in vocational education, apprentices, businesses, and students who are subject to complementary education or field education, while insurance premiums are covered by the budget of universities, which are covered by vocational and technical institutes of higher education with the Ministry, above 75% of the minimum wage." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit05spe0208par0023	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Movement on Article 52 of Law Bill 405. I salute the Veteran Assembly. Starting with my words, I ask the blessing of God to our children who died in a fire in the sorority of the sorority house in Aladağ district of Adana. My condolences to their families and to our nation, and to our wounded disciples, and to my Lord, I seek immediate healing. Dear lawmakers, an arrangement has been made regarding the 52nd article, private and state students who study, interns, and the payment of insurance premiums. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been under blockade for months, where humanitarian aid materials haven't even been entered, one of the most massive bombings and civilian massacres in the history of the world since November 15, 2016. Since Friday, heavy air bombings, regimes and Russian forces have continued to engage in all-out ground operations. Since 15 November, the regime, Russia and other forces have launched 2,000 air strikes, 7,000 cannons. As a result of heavy attacks, most civilians have been injured by 2,000 people and have lost nearly 700. The most heavily targeted areas in this inhuman attack have been the regions of Turkmen. The Turkmen neighborhoods of the ancient Turkish home of Aleppo were completely destroyed by Bostan Pasha, Höllik, Haydariye, Sheikh Faris, Sheikh Hidır and Baidin. The headquarters of Turkishmen troops in the region have been shot, unfortunately, and many Turkish mujahideen have been killed. As if this attack, meaning Turkishmen's existence, was not enough, the elements of the YPG and PYD began to infiltrate the Turkishmen neighborhoods in Aleppo, where the regime acquired them. Some of the civilians are trapped in the bombing zones. The United Nations has stated that 16,000 civilians have fled the region and that conflicts have transformed the east of Aleppo into a city without food. The vast majority have come to the neighborhoods of Meshhed, Sukkeri, Salihin, Firdevs and Shaar, under the control of the opposition, as the Muntasir Billah and the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet Brigades are a living shield. Since the beginning of the Syrian war, Turkmen have been targeted directly in Humus, Damascus, Aleppo, Bayır Bucak, Rakka, Tel Abyad. There's nowhere the bullet didn't reach the bomb. Turkmen are under arrest in six villages and are waiting for immediate humanitarian help in Humus, which was exposed to ethnic cleansing in 2013. The Bayır Bucak Turkmen were completely evacuated in November 2015, and only five villages in the region have Turkishmen's forces. Rakka, Tel Abyad Türkmen are under the tyranny of the PYD/YPG. And now Aleppo, the ancient Turkish home, is being destroyed. Aleppo is dying before the eyes of the world. A whole history, a whole civilization, is sacrificed to warmongers. History bears witness that it is not only Aleppo who is destroyed, but the conscience of mankind. Since 2011, Turkmen have died in Syria with 35,000 deaths as a result of persecution, massacre and ethnic cleansing in Syria. They have been banished from their land for a thousand years, and they have continued to be banished. Dear lawmakers, the people of Aleppo, who live in Aleppo, must survive to keep the Turks alive, but to survive now, the Mujahideen and civilians must leave the region alive and well. Aleppo says a real truce must be declared and a human corridor must be opened as soon as possible, and we demand that the massacre in Aleppo be stopped. Aleppo's fate line, the future course of Asia Minor, is not separate and distant, our destiny is incompatible. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If Aleppo is not secure, Gaziantep, Kilis, Hatay says he is under threat, and in this matter, I salute the government, the NGOs, the United Nations organization, the international NGOs, the sensitivity and responsibility, the Veterans Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit05spe0209par0032	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and offer to replace the terms of the articles of the Article 52 of Law Bill 405, which is currently in session. Kemal Zeybek (Samsun) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr Kemal Zeybek of Samsun MP on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit05spe0210par0045	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you. President Erdoğan has explained that the cruel Esed -- of course, I call Assad -- had entered there to end his reign, not for anything else. This statement is the triumph of Parliament's will. Parliament has given the government authority to fight ISIS, PKK and other terrorist organisations and to ensure our border security. This statement is a violation of the Constitution, a declaration of war for another country to ignore Parliament. This authority belongs to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which cannot be transferred. The Turkish Armed Forces are advancing towards El Bab. Assad is in Damascus, 407 kilometers away. This expression also has no credibility, it's a symptom of hallucinations. Dear fellow lawmakers, I pray to God for the mercy of our precious students, whom we lost in a sorority in Adana Aladağ last night, and to the wounded I pray for immediate healing. Of course, we see that our students who were injured in this dorm, our students who lost their lives... haven't had college dorms in our country in years, that the state hasn't had warm solidarity with its students, its children, its embrace, its adoption, its upbringing. We say, "Hopefully, the next government... after the accident last night, we wish that a national structure in Turkey, which was not thrown into the arms of the congregations and continued their own education in the warm home of the state, should be carried out throughout Turkey. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on Article 52 of Law Bill 405. The main thing to be done with Bill 405 is to eliminate career and merit and bring your fellow executives on duty. The Ministry of National Education raises the authority in the country at the centre, changing the names of general managers and schools and transforms executives into acting officials. The goal is to increase pressure, eliminate non-compulsive executives, assign supporters to school and institutional directors. They have personally explained that they are acting according to the requirements of the congregations. It's obvious that the primary target is staffing with staff activity. You've turned education into a political hub. You've made exams questionable, like stealing questions, giving them things that people don't trust each other with. And the final point is the July 15 coup. Today, as yesterday, you continue with the same allies. For career and merit, the level of commitment to the AKP is measured instead of the competition exams. You go to one community and try to get a job with the other. One day you may have been deceived again. I warn you not to blame it on us later: Let us take up the bonds of citizenship, and let us not discriminate between our people who pay taxes and fulfill any legal civic responsibility. Let the competition take its courses. Let's make officials with information, savings, authority. I believe that the Ministry of National Education will take office, in place of those who are qualified and those who represent the office in the best possible way, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit05spe0211par0053	Thank you, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit05spe0212par0054	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit05spe0211par0055	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the motion... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 52 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions on Article 53 of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that students who have been trained from foreign countries and vocational educational institutions in our country be replaced by students in Article 53 of Law Bill 405. Erkan Aydın Metin Lütfi Baydar Ceyhun İrgil Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Haydar Akar Mustafa Ali Balbay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 53 of the original Law Bill (1/711) be removed from the draft text and other substances identified. Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Desire Erdem Deniz Depboy The signatures of the other motion are: Ages Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ziya Pir Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. The first speaker on the same motions is Diyarbakır MP, Mr. Siegel Yiğitalp.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit05spe0213par0082	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I wish mercy to those who lost their lives in the house fire in Aladağ yesterday, condolences to their families, immediate healings to the wounded. There was a fire like this in the Koran course a year ago, six of our children lost their lives, and the way they were born is a very similar story: a plastic, very tidy place, a Koran course based on mufti, an unauthorized, unregistered, no audited, no legal regulation to be made, something of lalettaiin. After the fire broke out there, while the children were trying to get themselves out, six of them couldn't save themselves because the door was plastic, three children were able to get out, three children were injured, and the wounded were not well. It was Prime Minister Davutoglu at the time, and we gave him a question motion, and we said, "How did this fire happen?" Are these kids on leave? Is it appropriate for those children to stay there? ▪ Do you have any plans for these children? Any arrests on this? Do you have any research? We haven't received any answers, and he's replaced by the new Prime Minister, because he doesn't have a prime minister's life span. Now the same thing happened in Adana. The interesting thing is, something like this happened eight years ago in Iconya, 18 students died at the time, and not one person was arrested, not eight years ago when 18 students lost their lives, and there was no investigation about a human being, and unfortunately, this turned into self-replicating catastrophes and massacres. And now we're going through this in Adana, we have a gag order. Strangely, on the same day in Adana, the President of the Diabetes opened a building of $6,639,000, and when you opened it up, it really bothered the conscience, the morality of man... you poor and deprived students, condemning them to sects and congregations, and you are responsible for all the responsibilities you've given them. Today, the mindset that condemns those children, poor children to cults, congregations is the killer of those children, and those who remain silent against the mindset of this killer, without comment, or even quietly confirming it are partners in the crime. If we look at the events in Adana today, as in Kömp, as in the case of Iconium -- as in the case of the press ban -- we will all watch together to preserve, in its own way, to reward those responsible there, and perhaps even to reward them in the future, with such absurd, irrational bans, so that the public's inner peace may not be broken. I hope and hope that today's Prime Minister -- if he has enough time to live -- will answer those questions because I'm asking him the same questions. One of my questions is, who owns the sorority that started the fire today? Two: Who controls the zoning of these dorms? What are the reasons for lack of supervision and irresponsible behavior in student dorms? Who's responsible for this fire? According to the National Ministry of Education Special Student Homes regulations, only private homes can be opened for high school and university students. The children who were slaughtered in Adana are between 11 and 14 years old, just as in Kulp How does the Ministry of National Education approve of community homes when primary school students are not allowed to open their homes in Turkey? Last night, at the time of the disaster, a father who sought his daughter in front of the dorm had a rebellion: "This is the land of the Solomonites. The state destroyed its home and placed our children here. Instead of producing these policies, why are you making an effort to get girls married at a young age and make them a means of abuse, abuse? Again, when do you plan to take precautions about this type of domestic fire? What's a precautionary threshold for you? Again, when are you going to give up this view that calls for patience and even calls it fate instead of doing the audit duty? Because you run this country, and if an ant gets hurt for running it, you're responsible. Today in Adana, before that, you are responsible for everything that happened in Kulp, before that, and I would like to remind you of your responsibility. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit05spe0214par0094	Thank you, Mr. Heroalp. Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor of Kahramanmarash will speak on the other proposal of the same nature. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Tor, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit05spe0215par0098	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding Article 53 of Bill 405. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Those who lost their lives in Aladağ, I pray for God's mercy and healing for the wounded. Hopefully, this will be the last of the sad events. Dear lawmakers organise the basics for vocational training in schools and businesses, with the training of apprentices, califa and masters. On this occasion, I would like to briefly discuss vocational and technical training. In the most general sense, vocational and technical education is the process of gaining knowledge, skill, attitude, and occupational habits required by a profession that is mandatory for individual and social life; the process of balancing the individual in a balanced way with their mental, emotional, social, economic, and personal aspects. The term "work and technical education institutions" is also understood by secondary schools that take vocational and technical education to a degree, and by all forms and educational institutions that apply certificate and certificate programmes. In parallel with the continued increase in knowledge and the development of science, the increasing innovation of technology is affecting the country's education process. Therefore, education programmes need to be up-to-date and are in line with the conditions of the age of education. In particular, the needs of society should not be ignored in the development of vocational and technical education programmes. Because vocational and technical education, schools and institutions, are tasked with bringing graduate students into the sectors as qualified employees. In vocational and technical education given to individuals, developed countries care about individuals with basic skills to understand and use technology, communication and problem-solving skills, and discipline to work in cooperation. In Turkey, vocational and technical secondary schools and vocational institutes are not updated in accordance with the demands of the labour market of vocational and technical education programmes, and the demand for vocational and technical education graduates is not increased and the demand for vocational education is reduced. Therefore, in vocational and technical education, a modular and flexible system is essential. The vocational education system should be based on raising students with the basic skills required by the labour market, such as working as a team, making decisions, solving problems, taking responsibility. Dear lawmakers, the time has come and passed for vocational and technical training to be reconsidered according to the needs of our country and the needs of the age. Thirty, forty years ago, the education and training of an industrial vocational high school is not available in many engineering schools, including vocational institutes. After finishing a trade vocational high school, he could easily do freelance accounting, financial counseling. Today, it is difficult for a university to solve a monograph given by finishing economics, finance, business, accounting. The problem is that theory and practice can't be combined. Yes, a university has been opened in every province. We'd love to see colleges grow in numbers, but let's not fool ourselves at all, but it's essential to fill up the number of colleges that are growing. Today in Anatolia, I'm not talking about the practice areas, but without seeing the professor, there's actually a degree in college air without breathing, practice is zero. If the Japanese have succeeded, one of the most important reasons is their discipline in education. When I say discipline, I don't mean breaking a ruler in the students' heads, I mean discipline, that I don't pass by average when the 7-8 major class is weak. Today, such as mathematics, the main courses, such as physics, are weak, but the average of other courses is passed. What's wrong with 7-8 undergraduates, diplomas? Another important issue: Unfortunately, today, 3-4 maths can enter engineering schools that do physics. I have always said it, and I will continue to say it. Follow the commandment of God, and give it to the master. You can give religion culture and morality, philosophy, music teacher, PE teacher in line with your major or as a principal or substitute to flat high schools, the head of the department, the general manager, the undersecretary, but don't ever make industry vocational upper secondary schools principal or vice principal. I salute your high council, saying, "You will ruin this country."
tbmm-2016-11-30sit05spe0216par0109	Thank you, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit05spe0217par0110	We want the number of decisions enough searched, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit05spe0216par0111	I'm going to put the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0216par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough during the vote of the same specific motions issued on Article 53 of the Law Bill 405. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motions... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motions are not accepted. We'll resume the talks of Bill 405. The commission is here, the government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that students who have been trained from foreign countries and vocational educational institutions in our country be replaced by students in Article 53 of Law Bill 405. Erkan Aydın (Bursa) and his friends. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. On the motion, Mr. Erkan Aydın.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0218par0017	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion issued in Article 53 of the Law Bill 405. As I begin my words, I pray for the mercy of God for our 11 children, for our lives, and for one servant who died in Adana last night, and for those who were wounded. Really burned our lungs, burned our insides. There, the daughters of poor families lost their lives. They went there because they couldn't afford it and gave their lives. Yet the children of poor families give their lives in the land that they do not know, Syria, southeast, but when the government or the miners die, they also call the people who die here out of control, out of carelessness. What's happening is happening to the poor, the ones who lost their lives there. Today, the anniversary of the closure of the tekkes and powers was closed on 30 November 1925. But, as we look at it today, as the Fetullah Congregation is being sent to the congregation, the children have been going to the Solomonians' homes, instead of their homes -- because of its abuses over the last few years -- and there these familiar, familiar images appear. When we looked at it, the mayor destroyed this house and said he'd replace it with a new one. But first they took the precaution, and then they put it in the Solomonites' homes, because they were exposed. Any inspection, no interest, and the kids lost their lives there. What was really to be done? The children there had to be placed in a municipality or a public home and then started construction, but the work was the opposite. Look, one of the girls we lost is Paradise Karataş, who went to Sinanpaşa Middle School in Aladağ. This year he began the 5th class, and for the first time he left his family and settled in the dorm. His family resides in the village of Winter, an hour and a half from Aladağ. His father tells us that his daughter loved to read, that she wanted to become a doctor, and that's why she sent him to Aladağ. However, since there is no way, he says he has to go to this dorm because he has no money to pay for it, and he adds that he sent it because he had no place to stay. It's a father's cry. We're all dads, we've got kids, we've got kids. Is there anyone whose heart does not feel this pain? But what do the authorities say, the government tasked with correcting these mistakes? He puts a gag order on us, and he says, "We'll learn from these." There is a flood, and people die in the city, and the government does not learn. There's an earthquake, a lot of people die, the government doesn't learn, there's a mining disaster, people die, people don't learn. And the children died yesterday, and we know it from the government, and we know it from the government. We will learn from this. How many more people will die, how many children will die, and how many lessons will you learn, or, as in all developed countries, will you consider this resigning mechanism? Does not the mind of a servant of God also remember? There's someone responsible for this. A lot of young, young souls are gone here. Can't you say, "Yes, it's my responsibility," and say, "It's my responsibility." Congressmans, the government's officials are here, and I'm asking the Minister, won't one person come forward and say so? But unfortunately, there's no explanation for that. It happened in Iconia, eight years ago, and 18 of our babies were gone, for eight years the case is still going on, no arrests. We're still waiting, when will the responsible be punished? What does the President say when all this is going on? We have entered Syria to end the reign of the tyrant Assad, who has terrorized the state, and not for anything else, he says. This is the triumph of Parliament's will. This is a violation of the Constitution. This is an open declaration of war for another country, which is the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which cannot be handed over to anyone, and no one has the right to say such a thing without the Grand National Assembly of Turkey knowing it. From here, I demand that this statement be judged by our great nation and that the public consider them as quickly as possible, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0219par0024	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two separate motions on Article 54, which I make to read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 54 of the 405, we propose that the interim clause added to the law shall be replaced with the declaration of the following. Metin Lütfi Baydar Ceyhun İrgil Mustafa Ali Balbay Haydar Akar Bkent Bektasoğlu Gaye Beþelier Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 54 of Law Bill 405 be removed from the draft text. Ages Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ziya Pir Imam Taşçıer Ayhan Bilgen Kadir Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. On the motion, Mr. Cadri Yıldırım. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0220par0047	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I begin my words, I salute you all. In this speech, I'd like to share with you a few issues regarding peace education, which is part of democratic education. According to research, some 60 million people have lost their lives in internal conflicts and foreign wars since World War II, and many of them are civil segments -- mostly women, children, and elderly -- as well as civilians. And again, according to research, a school can easily be built with the money of each F16. The main purpose of peace education is to dominate the culture of peace rather than the culture of war, and peace education has its own principles. One of them is being able to empathize. Two: Not only do we get one identity, but we realize that we have multiple identities. Third: not to replace anyone else. Fourth: honoring the rights and nature of all individuals without discrimination. Five: possession by opening the way for critical thinking. Six: to keep the communication mechanisms open. And seven: not to be sexist. Maalouf has a diagnosis. According to his assessment, no living creature would kill a descendant of its own. If he's killing -- including human -- he sees that he wants to kill a stranger in some way, he sees it as a stranger, he looks the other way, he tries to kill it. I repeat: no living thing kills another of its own, but it kills another of its own, and it kills it by looking at it with the eyes of strangers. Thus, the identity of the person facing all the conflicts, wars, bloodshed - whether religious identity or ethnicity - or not knowing the language of the people before it - or defacing the color of the people in front of it. So the main purpose and indeterminateness of peaceful education is to embrace the equality of ethnic and religious identity among members of the community as well as the equality of languages and the equality of colors, and to practice it in a way that creates a change of behavior in members of the community. If there is no change in behavior in a country, in a state, in a country -- the most valid definition of education is to create behavioral changes in individuals -- then that country, that country, that country, that country, that country, that country, that country, that country, has not reached the desired goal of education. The main purpose of education, then, is to make peace culture prevail over the culture of war and conflict. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0221par0054	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 54 of the 405, we propose that the interim clause added to the law shall be replaced with the declaration of the following. Metin Lütfi Baydar (Adün) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. On the motion, Mr. Gaye Niceer. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0222par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, the other day, President Erdogan said that we entered there to end the reign of Esed, the tyrant who led the state's terror, not for anything else. This expression is clearly a violation of the Constitution; this statement is to ignore Parliament; it is the gain of Parliament's will. Parliament has authorized ISIS, PKK and other organisations to fight terrorist organisations and secure our border, not anything else. See, there's nothing in Bill 405. You say "Reform" but it's not hard to see what deformations he's going to make in education when we look at each of the substances. See, Article 54 is also related to apprentice training. Apprentice training goes to the Lifetime Learning Directorate. It's taken from here, and it's connected to the Office of Professional and Technical Education. So vocational education is compressed into secondary school. Even in the ten-employee business, how will this training be exploited at the same time? How to build a cheap worker is a sign of this. Under this arrangement, state-controlled, state-sponsored, state-owned child labor will be legalized. In vocational education, of course, the state, the employer, and the worker both have responsibilities and obligations. So, what's the goal in vocational training? The goal is to create qualified labor. The goal is not to pile your entire middle education youth in front of the university. But we've found that the 4+4+4 system that was re-enacted with your votes in 2012, of course, is not the reform we've been saying all along. Today, we are all watching the problems that this system has caused in national education, as if it were a ball. In secondary school, this system of open education ends at the end of the 4th grade. Students don't really want to choose vocational and technical high schools. Why don't they want to? Because vocational upper secondary schools have low status, because education in these schools is neither efficient nor good. So, who chooses vocational and technical high schools? Sadly, again, poor people are referred to apprentice training, vocational and technical high schools, thinking that poor people will find jobs in a short way. Dear lawmakers, in the process of voting at the end of each motion, you all raise your fingers together, but you don't realize what you're actually pointing at.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0223par0073	Get out of here! It's a shame.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0224par0074	Do you know what you're holding up?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0222par0075	The automatic fingers go up in the air with the button pressed.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0224par0076	Look at you, look at you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0222par0077	You're raising your fingers in the same 4+4+4 as subcortically, irrationally.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0225par0078	Watch your language, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0226par0079	Yours is insane. Is yours mind-blowing?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0222par0080	It is clear that we need a reform in education, but there is no reform in education with any of the provisions of this bill.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0227par0081	Mr. President, how could he say that?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0226par0082	He's insulting me. He doesn't have the right to insult me.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0222par0083	Don't get angry, don't get angry.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0226par0084	Shame, shame! Who are you, insulting, who are you?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0222par0085	The fingers you lift destroy the future of our children.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0226par0086	First learn your place, first learn to be civilized.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0228par0087	No fingers, no fingers.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0222par0088	The deformation in the education system is your product.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0226par0089	There's such a thing as shame, such a thing as shame!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0229par0090	Is your finger smart?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0222par0091	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0230par0092	Why don't you address the General Assembly, Mr. Niceer? Mr. Group Vice President will respond if necessary.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0222par0093	If you can afford it...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0231par0094	Put your finger down, put your finger down!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0232par0095	Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0222par0096	...against your brother, listen to your conscience.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0232par0098	Outrageous! You've read it, but...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0233par0099	Your finger is smart, your finger.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0232par0100	That's what happens when a man lacks decency.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0233par0101	He's got a mind on his finger.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0234par0103	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0235par0104	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0234par0105	By returning to our group, the preacher used phrases like we didn't know, we didn't know, we voted without knowing. He's a know-it-all. I want a promise.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0235par0106	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0234par0109	Mr. President, there is a level of Parliament. OSMAN LOVE SEE (Rize) Bravo! He's got the right level. All the people who come here have been chosen from their territory. You don't know him, you don't know him... you keep what you know. These MPs work in a brutal way, voting at the point of Turkey's governance, displaying will. Don't go out looking from above and using expressions from a low point of view.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0236par0112	They don't have a future if we don't want roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0237par0113	You watch your back, how many are there?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0238par0114	Look behind you, Congressman, look behind you, and then talk.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0239par0115	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0240par0116	We're returning the same to you. They're obsessed with something. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have no further say in this regard. There's only one type of understanding. What is it? What we know is true, other than that. Since the system passed 4+4+4, some people have put it in their tongue, and one of them is this orator. Sir, 4+4+4 is terrible. Why? As we requested, everyone will go to the same place. There was a system called the system, and we changed it. Flexible, whoever wants to make the choice. This is where all the trouble comes from. That's one type of understanding.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0241par0118	Let him remember his tweet when he was struck in Egypt.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0240par0119	You know, the one they're trying to criticize?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0242par0120	They're making the wrong choice. You force children into certain schools.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0240par0121	It's that one type of understanding that they're trying to criticize, that they're always talking about, but they're under the mind and in the code. In this respect, I thank every member of the EC PARTI for the will you have shown so far, in this respect, for your successful work in your districts, and for bringing the AK PARTY to power. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0243par0125	Yeah, that's how they look at people, and people bury them in boxes.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0244par0126	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0243par0127	They're looking at people from above.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0244par0128	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0245par0129	Don't worry, they'll bury you and never come out again.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0243par0130	They'll bury you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0244par0131	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0243par0132	You were buried in the box in 11 elections. That's how you look at people, people bury you in a trunk.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0246par0133	We haven't been buried in a hundred years.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0243par0134	The results are obvious, you haven't been in power in 50 years.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0247par0135	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0246par0136	We'll see, we'll see, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0243par0137	If you look at people from above, people will bury you in the trunk.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0247par0138	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0243par0139	That's the square.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0247par0140	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0243par0141	You're doing the same to the citizen.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0248par0142	Mr. President, let's get the hatibin inoculations, let's get this friend inoculated.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0249par0143	This is the Clave. Yeah, this isn't a grocery store.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0243par0144	You do the same to the citizen, then you come back, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0249par0145	Sir, this isn't a grocery store, this is the Clave.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0250par0146	Will you do a disciplinary procedure for Osman Love Bak?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0249par0147	This isn't a grocery store, this is the Capitol, you can't yell like that.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0251par0148	Congressmans, please remain calm.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0252par0149	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0251par0150	Mr. Look, please don't shout.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0252par0151	I'll give you my opinion.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0251par0152	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0253par0153	You're not saying what you think, you're yelling.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0251par0157	Members of the law, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 54 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two separate motions on Article 55: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the interim Article 12 of Article 55 of Law Bill 405, which has been added to the law, shall be replaced by the application of the Article 12 of the Law. Metin Lütfi Baydar Ceyhun İrgil Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Haydar Akar Mustafa Ali Balbay Nurettin Demir To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 55 of Law Bill 405 be removed from the draft text. Ages Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ziya Pir Imam Taşçıer Ayhan Bilgen Osman Baydemir Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Şanlıurfa MP Osman Baydemir on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0254par0179	It's not my work, it's the government's.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0255par0180	It's your work. They challenged me, they challenged me.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0256par0181	No one's criticizing, put as much as you want.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0254par0182	No matter how proud you are of your work, it's up to you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0257par0184	Identify the holes you've dug.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0256par0185	You should have thought of that when you leaned your back on the PKK.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0258par0186	Mr. Osman, they challenged me.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0259par0187	Dear lawmakers, Mr. President, once again in this General Assembly, it is proof and evidence that in terms of democratic values, in terms of human values, the impact of the junta in terms of morality and the impact of the civilian, tyrant regime will have no different consequences. In representation of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, co-chairs of the third-largest political party -- the leaders are now in prison; 10 MPs were sent to prison with instructions, ignoring the will of the people who were authorized to express this community's request in this Parliament, the will of the people who were authorized to find 10 million.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0260par0188	No way!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0259par0189	Political understanding, which sees the Cunta coup as the grace of God, continues to rule this country with a coup law as of now. Dear MPs, we have to be very clear and clear that if today the country is experiencing such a crisis, destruction, tragedy, death, and loss of blood in both the Middle East and the world, it is the fear of power above all.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0260par0191	No way!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0259par0192	It's also a sign of what the fear of losing power has done to the country. My advice to you is, be afraid. Come, let us fear together, but let us fear only and only God. Because this power is not a lasting power for any of you, for any of us. One of these days, you're gonna have to pass this trust on to someone else. Two years longer, two years shorter, but rest assured that in the future of this country, all oppressed peoples will have honor in the future of this country. Just as the Layla Zanas, Hatip Dicleler, Orhan Doğans are in a place of honor in this country today, the Demirtaşs and their friends will still be in a place of honor in this Parliament. But the wrongdoers will have no place in the future. None of you should have doubts or doubts about this. Now, it can only be explained by the mind and conscience of our lawmakers and co-chairs to connect the presence of prisoners to the independence of the judiciary, to the neutrality of the judiciary.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0261par0196	Oh, my God! What about the terrorists, the terrorists?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0259par0197	However, it can only be explained by having mental and conscience diarrhea. Let me be clear: even when the junta was dominated -- there are lawyers here in you, and we all know very well -- even at the State Security Court, the judges had a small amount of mobility. Show me today a judge, a prosecutor, a court that the government has instructed me to arrest, to signal...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0262par0199	The judgment is independent.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0259par0200	...to stop a politician from arresting a journalist. Just as 5,000 judges and prosecutors have been taken in, every judge and prosecutor who have failed to comply with the government's instructions -- and I'm very clear -- has been stripped of their will. With that dignity, this decision is political, not legal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not the courthouse that you're dealing with your contacts, your competitors. It's the crate. The names of those who escaped the ark, to me, are democratically cowardly. Come away from our fears, come away from your fears, I want to repeat the bee's call once again.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0263par0204	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0264par0205	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0263par0206	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0264par0207	Mr. orator, as we've passed the coup law, we've brought the country to the brink of disaster, with these and similar accusations, he's made an open challenge to our group. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0263par0208	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0264par0211	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we all answer to the court, we believe in it, we believe in it. Those who are afraid to answer in the courtroom are the ones who pat the back of a live bomb that kills a six-month-old baby in the womb. They have no answers, let them be afraid. Those who turn their backs on terrorists who have killed our soldiers, our police, our citizens in the pits will not be able to answer because they are there. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, the speaker has spoken of law. I want to remind him of something. He was the mayor of Diyarbakır Metropolitan. Remember, there was a trial in the press.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0265par0214	And there was one who asked for an account.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0264par0215	Wait a minute... His own staff judged him. Remember? PKK law.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0266par0217	Tell me, tell me.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0264par0218	PKK law. Mr. Baydemir is a PKK law which he understands from law.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0267par0219	You're hiding behind the claims of..... and you're talking. You're talking about the allegations.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0264par0220	There was a cleaning worker who judged him. Did he say anything? Now, that's the structure that the government has broken down.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0268par0221	That's what the congregation claims, the congregation.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0264par0222	Mr. Baydemir, relax, he's saving you too. Look, your staff won't be able to judge you again. If he's going to judge, the judges and prosecutors will judge. Relax, don't be shy.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0269par0224	Have you fallen for the claims of the Laughing Congregation? You wouldn't understand.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0264par0225	It's a very bad thing for a mayor to be court-martialed and sentenced by an employee. Dear MPs, this is what the EC PARTY finished. WHAT AK PARTY finishes is the dreams and dreams of terrorists who fall in love with sovereignty in those ditchs.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0270par0227	Didn't you send a court of law there?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0264par0228	Turkey is ending terrorism. Turkey is going in a good direction. Let us not forget that the Kurds as well as the Turks are equal citizens and owners of this country.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0271par0231	But they can't speak Kurdish.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0272par0232	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0273par0233	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0272par0234	Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0273par0235	Mr. orator has made it clear that today the government and the government have made a heavy and vicious taunt of a perception operation that has been in the same bed with them for twelve years in the same bed with the government. I make a promise.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0274par0236	Tell me if it happened or not.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0272par0237	Here you go, Mr. Baydemir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0275par0241	Mr. Group Vice President, Kurdish politicians faced an attack called law in the same way as today's political genocide operation, which has been described as at least a dozen times as the main case of TK. At that time, a perception operation of every politician was conducted by your ruling partner, or rather your state partner, and by that click that you refer to as today. That's what the perception operation was about me. Let me make this very clear: If you bring up a single court -- anywhere about me -- except for the state's trial -- if you bring up a single court, I will put an end to the Turkish Grand National Assembly and my political life, my honor and my honor. If you don't prove it, if you don't prove it, and you don't resign, I'll leave it to the dignity of our MPs, the Turkish community, the Kurds, the Turks.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0276par0242	Don't demagogue, don't demagogue.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0275par0243	I'm telling you very clearly, you're operating on perception, you're running the perception operation that the junta clinic has done right now. Look, you're still walking with them. You're still using their false evidence, their false perception operations. One day in Urbana, a customer of a pepper salesman, a isot salesman, comes in, breaks the weed, smells it, throws it out, says: "This is not pain. It breaks the other one, not pain. " Breaks the other one, smells it, not pain. The pepper holder says, "Ya, what are you doing?" But these peppers are not bitter. What should I do if my peppers are bitter but your nose is not burning? Now, you stayed in the same bed for 12 years, and in the end, they stuck the dagger in your back, and if you still don't burn your nose, then what do I tell you?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0277par0246	Now you're going to bed together?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0278par0247	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0279par0249	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0278par0250	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0279par0251	I won't take promises again. There are cameras that are reflected in the press about this issue; anyone who wants to go to YouTube will be able to look at them. Second, we have not made any partners in power, nor have we made any partners in government or power. Power is taken from the nation, and when the time comes, the people make their evaluation. Thank you. Those who desire can watch these images on YouTube.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0280par0254	Didn't you say we were wrong, dear?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0281par0255	Thank you, Mr. Mush. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0282par0262	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0281par0263	There's a request for a roll call before the test. Mr. Altay, Mr. Kayan, Mr. İlkil, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Akin, Mr. Engin, Mr. Demir, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Bozkurt, Mr. Turpcu, Mr. Kara, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Pekşen. Congressmans, I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll begin the process. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the interim Article 12 of Article 55 of Law Bill 405, which has been added to the law, shall be replaced by the application of the provision of education. Nurettin Demir (Mugla) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Nurettin Demir will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0283par0283	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding Article 55 of Bill 405. Of course, I was actually a little obsessed with the subcortical. I'm a doctor, you know. I said, do I need to teach the ruling party's MPs some anatomy lessons? You know, without the subcortical, friends, the upper brain doesn't develop. There are physicians among us, neurologists, neurosurgeons, so don't be so sensitive. Mr. Ismail, he knows very well. So, I mean, for what it's getting into, the team, the lawmakers, I'm having a hard time understanding.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0284par0285	When a professor has nothing more to say, we feel sorry for him.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0283par0286	Dear friends, there have been two things that have upset me today, and of course it has upset you. In particular, the President should declare war on the Syrian people, Syria; we should condemn it as a parliamentary group, as all MPs. What's he saying, Mr. President? We went in there to end the reign of Esed, the tyrant who led the terror of the state, not for anything else. He made a statement. This expression is the triumph of Parliament's will. Parliament has given the government authority to fight ISIS, PKK and other terrorist organisations and to ensure our border security. This statement is a violation of the Constitution, ignoring Parliament. O my people, this is a declaration of war, a declaration of war to another country, dear members of the high council, who are missing and wounded. This authority belongs to you, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which cannot be transferred. The Turkish Armed Forces are advancing towards El Bab. Assad is in Damascus, 407 kilometers away. This expression, by the way, has no credibility, is a symptom of hallucinations. Dear MPs, especially the fire and training massacre in Adana Aladağ, are the great regret of all of us, the entire Turkish Grand National Assembly. What's a kid doing, guys? What's a kid doing in a boarding school? Ten students and one officer burned like the intellectuals you burned in Madimak, screaming.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0285par0290	What do you mean, you burned it?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0286par0291	Who burned it?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0285par0292	What are you talking about? What kind of thinking is that?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0287par0293	Burners, not you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0285par0294	Who was in power, in power?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0288par0295	He was burned in the force of the SHP.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0287par0296	I take it back, I take it back, I take it back.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0285par0297	Who was in power?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0287par0298	I got it back, guys.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0289par0299	Okay, he took it back.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0290par0300	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0287par0301	I don't mean you, I mean the ones who burned it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0291par0303	Who was in power?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0290par0304	Look at your own brain, your own brain.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0292par0305	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0293par0306	There's no need to be disrespectful, you're being disrespectful.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0294par0307	I take it back.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0292par0308	Congressman, Mr. Demir...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0294par0309	My heart is burning, friends, as a father, as a grandfather. You're burning up, too. Doesn't it burn?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0295par0311	It burns.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0294par0312	Okay, I got it back, guys.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0295par0314	What are you talking about? What does it have to do with Madimak?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0296par0315	That's all your brains are. Disrespectful!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0297par0316	Congressmans, Mr. Demir has stated that he has taken his word back, so let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0298par0317	I take it back, guys, I don't mean you, I don't mean you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0299par0318	You've burned him. Let him take his statement back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0297par0319	Okay, he took it back.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0298par0320	I take it back, fellas. I'm a father, I'm a grandfather, I'm sad.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0300par0322	Then you will question your brain.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0298par0323	So are you. I've already said the same thing, that you're sorry, that you're in the same pain.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0300par0325	Then you will question your brain.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0298par0326	Guys, about your apprentice training...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0301par0328	Have him look at the brain thing you said at the beginning of the conversation.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0300par0329	If that's your brain, you'll question it. That's enough! You're being disrespectful as long as you're patient.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0302par0330	He's going to apologize!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0303par0331	I'm sorry again, okay? I didn't mean you guys, I didn't mean anyone in the House.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0302par0332	What do you mean?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0303par0333	I didn't mean it, guys.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0302par0334	Then who did you mean? Tell me who you mean.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0303par0335	Sir?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0302par0336	Who do you mean?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0303par0337	The ones with the burns.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0304par0338	You were in power.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0302par0339	Who? But who?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0303par0340	Whoever burned it, it's Sivas.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0302par0341	You say it, but you say it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0303par0342	No, I got it back.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0305par0343	You were in power, you were.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0306par0344	You're talking shamelessly!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0303par0346	Guys, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0305par0347	If you're sorry, you're being virtuous.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0307par0348	Members of parliament, Mr. Demir said he expressed and took it back because of a slip of the tongue. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0305par0350	We accept your apology, thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0307par0351	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0308par0352	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0305par0353	Apologize for the night of the coup, you are the one who said, "It's in the Mursi of Turkey." You still get up and talk. O my Lord, the more patience you are, the more disrespectful you are.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0307par0354	Congressmans, let's hear it. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0309par0356	Mr. President, we've all been told about the incident in Adana. There's no one here who won't be hurt, everyone's devastated. Then he returns, just as you burned those in Madimak. He returns to this group. Now, this is an open taunt. Later, the preacher retracted his words, but we will have some statements to record. We want promises.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0307par0358	Mr. Mush, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0310par0359	Anyone who casts the word "tweet" should apologize.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0307par0360	However, Mr. Iron stated that during his speech, he took back his words. Let's listen to you first, and if necessary, we'll promise Mr. Iron his place again.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0310par0361	There are professors in you who threw away that tweet.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0307par0362	Here, I'd like to call you to the stand.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0311par0366	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0310par0367	Ask Miss Gaye, we remind her of the night of the coup.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0311par0368	...there's a text here in the hands of some orator who's coming out; a text is compressed, it's mentioned that there's an authority over there. Look, there were some images reflected yesterday, YPG and Assad flags side by side. Right, Turkey entered Syria to protect its borders, where it entered to fight against terrorist organizations. If Esed supports them, what's the difference? Is it different from a terrorist organization? If ISIS is opening up space, it's the same as the YPG, it's no different for us. There's no difference between supporting a terrorist organization and becoming a terrorist organization. Our goal is to protect our borders, that's what our President stands for. Second of all, for one thing, that's an unfortunate explanation. You're going to get out of here first, I'm a professor, a physician...... and you're going to do it like this, and then you're going back to our group, and you're going to burn it like you burned Madımak...... and then he took it back. For the record, look who the Deputy Prime Minister was at that time. Erdal Innu.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0312par0370	Someone burned down Madimak, and last night, the house that you did not take precautions, burned down.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0311par0371	So, who's the Minister of Justice? Mohultay.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0313par0372	Did you burn Adana with that logic? That logic goes to him. What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0311par0373	Deputy Prime Minister Inönu, Minister of Justice Moğultay.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0313par0374	You are the government. Did you burn Adana?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0311par0375	Why didn't you find out? Why didn't you find out? Why didn't you find out?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0314par0377	Who are the burners? Who's his lawyer? Who are the burners? Speech! Who are the burners? Who's his lawyer?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0311par0379	Why did you cover him up? Why don't you bring it up?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0314par0380	The lawyer of the Sivas massacre lives here!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0311par0381	First of all, that's what happened on the mission. You can't throw these slanders at the AK PARTY without being embarrassed or bored.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0314par0382	The lawyer of the Sivas massacre lives here!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0315par0384	Mr. Ozcan, please take your seat.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0311par0385	No AK PARTY at the time, no AK PARTY at the time.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0314par0386	It's not the burning Erdal Innu; it's the mentality, it's your mentality!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0311par0388	The people who did this... At that time, it was in the power of those of you who had the same mentality before.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0316par0390	The people who burned Sivas are lawyers here! He's a lawyer here, the ones who burned Sivas.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0317par0392	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0318par0393	What's it to you? What's it to you? You mean me?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0317par0394	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0319par0395	Nobody... It's you. You dirty bastard!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0318par0396	What's it to you?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit06spe0317par0397	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... [[Noises from AK PARTY and CHP rows]] I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit07spe0317par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 405. The commission is here. The government is here.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit07spe0320par0008	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit07spe0317par0009	Before taking a vote on the motion, I had to pause due to the discussion during the previous session. Members of parliament, especially the MP who addressed the General Assembly on the podium, we are unfortunately witnessing these discussions and such arguments from time to time, although we have repeatedly stated that all lawmakers should not use offensive, hurtful, hurtful words when speaking to each other, that they should act in accordance with the Civil Code. As a result of our meeting with the members of the group, we also said that the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would be useful in providing such an environment for the passing of the law in a healthy manner. Now, I would like to make a specific commitment to the position of every four political parties, the group's representatives, and to ensure that a calmness is needed. I now promise Mr. Akçay to express his views on this matter. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit07spe0321par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I'm afraid that at times during the General Assembly talks, there may be unwanted words in both speech from the platform and speech from the floor. What matters here is that although love is free, we must never forget that there is a necessity in respect. In that regard, it is especially important to avoid words involving insults or heavy accusations. This greatly increases tension in the General Assembly. And as far as our country is concerned, we need to pay more attention to this attitude and its words. In particular, I think that in an environment where the bodies of the infants who died in the fire yesterday in Adana were still in the morgue of Forensic Medicine, we should choose our words more carefully in a time when all of our citizens are sad, and we are also witness to the fact that most of the lawmakers later regret it. Therefore, he hopes that there will be no similar situations in the following sessions and talks, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit07spe0322par0021	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit07spe0323par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to share a few information about the Sivas Madimamak massacre, which has seriously injured the public's conscience, with the public and the valued MPs here. After 21 years of trial, the statute of limitations on the seven defendants was passed in 2014, and we lost valuable people to that massacre. In 2012, Prime Minister Erdogan stated that the statute of limitations was made for our nation, and that the citizens who were in prison for many years were fugitives for the sake of our nation. Unfortunately, in this country, it's actually a state tradition for massacres to face punishment. I wish for the same thing not to happen today about Aladağ, and then, at least after that, if we are united in this kindness and respect for each other, we will also be united in respect for the victims and that punishment will not be a tradition. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit07spe0324par0029	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit07spe0325par0032	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, about three or four hours ago, after the tension between the ruling party and the People's Democratic Party, I made a commitment to my position, saying that these images don't suit Parliament when our 12-13 daughter was burned to death. After that, I said that the majority party -- did it change a strategy -- was it -- was it in a more exciting style and style today, and it was over, and then Parliament walked calmly for a while. There's no hesitation, our stand tone is extremely important, and in our platform style, there's never, never, never, never, never be accepted for both sides. There's such a thing as road accidents in politics. From time to time, we all have unwanted sentences from every politician, and from now on it will come out. However, in this case, the party's party, the party's party's responsible, the group's vice presidents, or the inconsistencies, will do as it pleases him. But in this case, it must have been due to the polarizing, a bit of tension-prone tendency of the majority party that has been going on since today, and since Parliament worked until 4:00 a.m. last night, everyone is getting a little bit out of control, and it's been tolerated to some extent. But don't beat around the bush, it's a Parliamentary ritual, Mr. President, when word is spoken to on the stand, it's a ritual...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit07spe0326par0036	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Altay. Here, complete.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit07spe0325par0037	...but harassment against the speakers on the stand is another thing, and it's impossible to accept. The word is elegant, and it gives the Parliament meaning. But I'm not going to name it now, and it's basically like a machine that I love so much, like an automatic rifle, that's what's on the stand, and it's not clear what's happening, and it's only going to break the mind of the character on the stand that's causing a crowd of noise in the House. In summation, again, in Parliament, we will continue to criticize all members of the government, including Mr. President, for the work and transactions of the past government, which we find flawed, but we don't approve of insults, we don't approve of dealing with personalities, we don't approve of dealing with private lives. By the way, the two MPs are arguing in the rows, and it's been happening a lot, and that's why the fights started. The fact that a large number of lawmakers were involved in the two lawmakers' dispute leads to the recent footage of the Parliament. This House has executive supervisors, at least four members of the House are in constant condition at the moment. From now on, no one should intervene in the rear, in rows, in rows, among the MPs who are arguing among the groups, except for their managers and their group's vice presidents. Finally, yes, we can get nervous, we can get angry. We say things like this that we don't want to say, and then we apologize, but mass progress to opposition lines during a debate of the majority party is kind of a psychological move to establish physical superiority, and naturally as a defensive reflex from opposition lines -- you know, the best defence attack -- is the future of a similar physical move in this regard. It's the mass attack against the opposition from here, from your ranks of power. What I just said is, why do people come here? You come for a beating, or you don't come for a song. So I said, "I'm sad, and I'm sorry to say it now." I said, "He who comes here will either die or be killed." Is it true? It's not. Should I be like this? I shouldn't come. Who's the bringer? It's you. From now on, it's the right thing to do everyone's job. Our already speaking MPs, Mr. Nurettin, have recanted while he's on the stand, and there's no hesitation in that. In general criticism of Gaye Hajji, the job of lifting fingers without knowing what the ruling MPs have brought in and taken in some ballots is: Group decision applies in a way, in a way, to all parties. It is also part of the Parliamentary tradition that power is a little more patient with opposition in this regard. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit07spe0327par0043	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit07spe0328par0046	Mr. President, we, the esteemed lawmakers, have never been in favor of tension in Parliament or in society as a ruling group, nor have we ever had any idea or policy of polarizing society. But, of course, the opposition is going to criticize, and I'm going to actually write down some criticisms that are being done here, and sometimes I'm going to talk to them, and I'm going to try to figure out what they're saying, what they're saying, what they're saying. He's saying something. Of course he's going to criticize it, of course he's going to say his ideas, but at some point he's going to go back to the individuality of lawmakers, the personal skills of lawmakers... and you don't understand it, you just walk away, you do it without thinking. We criticize party politics here, we criticize practices. We've never dealt with the black eye with the black eye of people. Sir, your eyebrows are black, and we never thought to criticize from here, and we never did it from the stand. And we don't think that's true. It might be better to use words that are understandable that we use Latin words when we're spoken here, and anyone can understand those words. Another: Mr. Engin Altay, they've walked here, they're going to start a fight here... We certainly don't approve of such a thing. And our deputies coming here... sometimes they're called in, and when they're on break, the lawmakers are here, and this has happened before, but we don't think it's right that every meeting should be launched as if it were an attack. Let's discuss the law here, and let's show what we're saying, plus, as opposition, to the ruling party, let's see what we're saying, let's see, this is what we're saying, compared to what we're critical of, this law is actually going to be more useful...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit07spe0329par0051	Mr. Mush, go ahead, finish it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit07spe0328par0052	And if we take their opinion on how it should be after the criticism, we'll be very happy about it, and we'll have the most fundamental responsibility for the work of Parliament, for the law, for the law. Why should we stretch Parliament and create tension when we have such a responsibility? At this point, everyone, we, the ruling party, the opposition parties, all of us, if we all look out for this, we're not gonna hurt each other, we're gonna look at each other in the face, and we're gonna make the laws that our nation is waiting for more comfortable. I wish you a good evening.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit07spe0329par0054	Thank you, Mr. Mush. And I would like to thank all of the group's vice presidents on behalf of the Court, but I would like to express a general warning once again. The 66th Amendment of the Civil Charter (Scripture) is to observe the Civil Code, not to be separated from the subject discussed; the 67th Article of the Civil Charter (Scripture) organises the use of a clean language in the General Assembly, and the absence of harsh and hurtful words. Again, Article 65 of the Civil Code is forbidden to interrupt the General Assembly, deal with the individual, and commit disorderly acts. I ask that all of our MPs be especially sensitive to the ability to conduct talks healthy and efficient, not to cause tensions, not to get out of the question, not to use a clean language, not to engage in character, and not to be interrupted. Members of parliament, it has now been held by the vote of the proposal of muğla MP Nurettin Demir and his friends, given on Article 55 of the Law Bill 405. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 55th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0329par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 405. The commission is here. The government is here. There are two motions on Article 56, which are of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that Article 56 of the Law Bill 405 be removed from the draft text. Metin Lütfi Baydar Ceyhun İrgil Mustafa Ali Balbay The signatures of the other motion are: Ages Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ziya Pir Ayhan Bilgen Imam Taşçıer Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Garo Paylan is the first speaker of the same motions.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0330par0023	Mr. President, most of you are not here, but I salute you. Adolf Hitler had a Minister of propaganda, Goebbels. From 1933 to 1945, he did the Ministry of propaganda. His job was to be a polygraph, to discredit the other parts that Adolf Hitler and his ideology had seen and ignored; to make Jews an object of hatred; to make leftists a object of hatred; to make leftists a disgrace to the socialists, to produce lies, and to prepare for the procrastinations that would happen. He always wanted to create a sense that, whatever we were doing, the Jews deserved it, the left-wings deserved it, the socialists deserved it. We've had Goebbels for a hundred years, we've had Goebbels like that propaganda minister, and they've always manipulated politics. Some Goebbels were at the disposal of politics, but other Goebbels were inside manipulating. In recent times, Mr. President, the congregation said that the community had deceived itself because the community had a Goebbels mechanism, but the previous ones had the same mechanisms, and these mechanisms have always polarized society, camped society, and in the end we've had coups. Now, lately... look, Osman Baydemir just gave a speech. Mr. Group Vice President, he said: "You have been judged by your own employees. He has made up a clear lie and a lie and a slander, and he has no proof of it. But if all the lawmakers say this slander everywhere, if the same lies are repeated on TV at night 40 times, if you continue to lie to the congregation you call it, that lie will convince the community. Unfortunately, it happens, Mr. Vice President, when these lies are told 40 times -- I'm traveling the tradesmen -- that's what you've done, and that's what you've done. These lies work there because there's no independent press that can fix it. Let's see, there is a lie that Mr. Faysal Yellowstar is carrying a gun to the mountain, and every night these lies are told on television, and every day you say that the MPs carried guns to the mountain. Well, one of you -- mercy -- read the prosecutor's indictment, and there's no such find. The prosecutor's indictment says there's no evidence that he was carrying a gun. There are cases of 6-7 October in the series of lies, 52 of our people have lost their lives, 47 of whom are HDP supporters; I ask God's mercy to all of them. And we made a motion here, let's look into it. We said, "No." You said, "No." HDP MYK has called our people to the squares to react democratically; the call is open, calling for MYK. The Central Executive Board has not called for such a call. But you're responsible for exposing that crime, and you answer for it, and you repeat that lie. The Minister of the EU just watched it on TV, saying: "We have fulfilled the promises, the EU is failing to fulfil the visa agreement, you have fulfilled 65 percent of the 72 criteria. Where are seven of them, and where are seven of them? No. Were we supposed to open the doors to terrorists, or were we to embrace them? The money didn't come. You say, 700 million dollars came in, and $1.5 billion was tied up in the contract. I insist you see, the same lies as Goebbels' tactics, the lies that most of you are telling without knowing, but some of you are knowingly telling these lies.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0331par0029	Nobody's lying. Look at yourself, look in the mirror, look in the mirror.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0330par0030	Unfortunately, you continue to polarize society and dynamite peace. I'm so sorry about all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0331par0031	You feel sorry for yourself, not for us.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0330par0032	But one day you'll pay for all of this. Unfortunately, on that day, we will defend you again.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0332par0034	Just defend yourself.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0333par0035	Thank you, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0334par0036	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0333par0037	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0334par0038	Mr. President, the orator thought things like that, and he believed them so much that he thought the reality in the middle was wrong, that it was a lie. He's the liar. Second of all, what I just said...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0333par0040	Mr. Mush, you're lying to a congressman...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0334par0041	He calls me a liar, he calls me a liar, and I give him back to himself.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0333par0042	For both of you, please don't call each other liars.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0334par0043	Mr. President, you're lying to our group. We're returning his statement to him.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0335par0044	We're returning it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0336par0045	We want documents, we want documents.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0337par0046	He wants a document. You spread lies, he says.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0336par0047	Document... document...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0338par0048	Calm down, calm down!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0337par0049	You spread lies.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0336par0050	The document, the document! Look, I have a court order.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0338par0051	If they want a document, let them enter on YouTube, and listen to their images, their recordings.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0337par0052	It's not YouTube. It's the indictment.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0338par0053	What I'm saying is it's on the agenda of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0339par0054	If you get on YouTube, you're all Fetullahists. If it's YouTube, you should all go inside. Shame on you! You've all got stuff on YouTube.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0338par0055	With all the audio recordings out there, we absolutely refuse to let him come forward and accuse us of lying.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0339par0056	Let's really just go through YouTube and see who's doing what they're doing.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0338par0057	Come on in, there he is.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0340par0058	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0341par0059	Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0340par0060	Mr. President, he called me a liar, an open tease.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0342par0061	That's not gonna happen. He just framed me.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0341par0062	Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0342par0063	Mr. President, there's no such thing. We answer to their own slander. There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0341par0064	Mr. Mush, I promise not to tease Mr. Paylan for two minutes. Let's hear it, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0342par0065	There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0343par0068	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, I only told you because you made such a statement. I told your other friends, some of you knowingly get involved in these lies, and you go and tell your constituents that. And your constituents believe these lies. You just told Mr. Osman Baydemir....that he was tried by his own employees. I don't...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0342par0070	He's got records.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0343par0071	No, I don't want your...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0342par0072	Go to YouTube.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0343par0073	What you said took it off, look what you said. Mr Bilal Erdogan's talks with the President were also recorded, weren't they? You called them liars, didn't you? If he is lying, he has made him a congregation too. You say, "If the congregation did this, then why is it true?" Where's your certificate? If the documents of the congregation are documents, isn't that what the President says? Why didn't Mr. Bilal Erdogan send the President to that trial? Was that an independent judgment that we didn't go to? Is that a thing? Put the document in the middle.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0344par0074	He's got a document, a document.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0343par0075	Bring it on, bring it on. If you place the documents of the congregation, you will also accept the President's talks with Bilal Erdogan. Don't be a tool for such manipulation, my friends. Goebbels's mechanism works, don't get involved in this lie, don't share in these lies. Let's set up the research commissions, set up the research commission on October 6th, 7th, set up the research commissions on the KCK investigations, let's figure out who manipulated those files together. Truth has its properties, one day it comes out.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0345par0076	You're under a terrible plague, and the plague of those martyrs is upon you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0343par0077	He's always been lied to, but one day he insists on having a bad habit, and that truth comes out, my friends.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0346par0079	Thank you, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0347par0080	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0346par0081	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0347par0082	Mr. President, I know what I'm saying. I just told you, let him go in there and look at his papers. Turkey is an event on the agenda.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0348par0083	Bilal Erdogan is also there.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0347par0084	In those days, when the TKK made such a trial, it was on the agenda of Turkey, and I opened it up in the General Assembly, and I made a reminder here.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0348par0085	He was on his agenda, who pulled him out?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0347par0086	Take a look over there. I still stand by what I said. You can go in and take a look, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0348par0087	Who took it out, who took it out, who? Bilal Erdogan's case was released. Well, that's true, then, and you'll take it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0349par0089	Okay, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0350par0091	What kind of talk did you just talk about in here? What a scream, unbelievable!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0349par0092	Mr. Kubat, I mean, this is a really hard place to run, and I'm saying it from both sides.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0351par0093	Let's keep going, Mayor. Let's keep going, let's not get nervous.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0349par0097	Members of parliament, the second speaker on the same proposals is Mr. Ceyhun Irgil.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0351par0099	What are you looking at, God, do we have to listen to you all the time?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0352par0100	Do you run the whole coven?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0353par0101	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0351par0102	Yeah, shut up, I'm listening to the speaker.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0353par0103	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you to remain calm, to restart my time. Let's get this discussion over with.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0354par0104	What's going on, you're giving orders to everyone?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0351par0105	It's none of your business, I do what I want.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0354par0106	You have to respect our Acting Speakers.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0351par0107	We'd like to hear from the reporter, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0355par0108	Congressmans, I've called the clerk to the stand. Please, let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0354par0109	Well, look at the style, he's waving at us and saying, "What are you looking at? I mean, is there such a thing?" Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0356par0110	Friends, I'll begin after the peace is restored.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0357par0111	Mr. President, we'd like to hear from the minister.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0358par0112	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please respect the witness on the stand. We'll listen to the speaker. Rebooting your time, Mr. Irgil. Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0359par0115	Mr. President, it's not easy to talk about national education laws in a very tense environment. But before I went back to the national education clause, he just used the expression of the group's deputy chairman, who was facing our speakers, who later softened the mood. He said: "We want the opposition to make a suggestion." We want the opposition to bring in good motions, to bring in bills, to talk about them, to walk through them. Friends, everyone who came here came with national will. If you got the vote, the opposition didn't come by collecting potatoes. And we came from the lands of this country, from their cities. We're not from outer space. And we don't deliver the plans or demands of people in space here. So we're transmitting requests, demands, or criticisms in society, which is natural. Besides, it's up to us to be angry, to complain about the opposition, but you made a claim and made a choice, and you won this election, and you were in power. What suits you is action, but what you do is you complain all the time, you pay constant condolences, you share constant pain. Now, I'd like to show a few documents to the group vice president here. He says: "Tell us something, make a suggestion, we'll accept it. You guys, HDP Group has brought 135 parliamentary research motions in three years, accepted zero; the MHP Group has brought 150 parliamentary research proposals, accepted 0; CHP Group 238 has submitted parliamentary research motions, accepted 2; AKP Group has brought 94 parliamentary research motions, all accepted. Now, you just gave us the upper hand, the top looker, you know, the wisest attitude. I'm telling you, according to these figures, I don't need anyone else's common mind who's above, who's above, who's not listening to the opposition. Who says, "I don't know anyone else's." Who says, "I don't know anyone but myself?" Here are the numbers. It's a desecration. Have so many people not had one useful idea in these three years, one that didn't make sense, reason, conscience, law-abiding? Besides, I asked Mr. Ismail Kahraman, our Speaker, this semester, and I said, "How many motions are there, and what did you say?" I'm reading my own answer to you from here. It's not answered by the opposition, which has been proposed by nearly 4,000, but for this reason, I've sent a letter to draw attention to the accounts. Isn't that a shame? You've never responded to 3,700. At least out of respect, out of respect, you'd have to answer by law. Let me tell you something: during the 24th term -- come on, this term is not over -- 772 legislation, 2,828 law proposals, you don't have one you accept from the opposition. I'm past that. Guys, can this happen? That would only happen in Turkey. You hear nothing but yourselves, you're a wall against everyone. Yeah, that's not gonna happen. Is that gonna happen in the world? We'll be the only ones. News in the national media: for the first time, the motion for opposition has been accepted. You know why that is? Not that you'd agree. You said no, but you couldn't make the majority, and the opposition was able to accept it. Guys, these disrespects, these distortions, they have to stop. Now, from the context of this proposal, as we, again... come to Adana, this is the school issue where our children burn, this is the last pain. If you listen to the opposition a little bit, if you have a little conscience, a little prejudice, perhaps we can be useful in many ways. This is the square of common sense, isn't it? Isn't this your conscience, this Turkey, this land, and the common conscience of all people? 51 percent have no conscience, have they no sense? Our Adana MP and twenty other friends with our signatures said six months ago: "These private dorms are more effective audits and a proposal for research in order to determine policies and measures to meet the needs of the students. If you had listened to this, these 12 children would be alive right now. Where's the common mind? Then why didn't you listen? As a matter of fact, this has happened all the time, and you do not listen to us, and you do not learn from the things that have happened. 17 children were burned to death on August 1, 2008. You didn't do anything. All you do is ask for mercy. It's everyone's duty, every citizen's duty, everyone's conscience, but it's your job to do it. Come on, if you're sincere, if you're real, let's study, explore, explore, develop the dorms and private dorms in this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0360par0127	Thank you, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0361par0128	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0362par0131	Mr. President, roll call...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit08spe0360par0132	I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, but there's a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Irgil, Mr. Yılim, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Kayışoğlu, Mr. Demir, Mr. Torun, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Beseler, Mr. Karböyik, Mr. Topal, Mr. Göker, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Boy, Mr. Çakırözer. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a 10-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0360par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before voting on the same proprietary motions on Article 56, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll begin the procedure. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 56th article is accepted. President of the Commission, Mr. Atalay has a request for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Atalay. Thank you, my dear President. Just a moment ago, Mr. Ceyhun, the esteemed member of our Commission, used a sentence here, and I made a promise to him, to be the President of the Commission. Our proposals are never accepted. He said something that meant something. Of course, as president of the National Board of Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, this bill is, of course, the unification of several proposals and proposals. We've done a very well-adjusted work on our commission, with members of the Commission from all parties. In fact, it was very efficient, and the subcommittee was established, and it all contributed to the subcommittee. All the confederates have been invited from the university, from the unions; they've all been heard in the subcommittee. So as far as education is concerned, there's been a lot of work being done to improve the bill and proposals that have come in as well as possible. I especially, of course, thank all of our members of the Commission here for their contribution to both the lower commission and then the Commission. One of them, of course, is Ceyhun Bey. And let me also say that when the drafts came in, when they were discussed in the Commission, there were major changes made. So, of course, by meeting with our Minister, the Ministry was persuaded to make major changes to the government's proposals. For example, in the 56th article just now, I've looked at both proposals, both parties' motions to remove this clause, although this gives the professionals a new opportunity to coordinate it, to make it clearer, to bring them new rights, and that's the first time it's happened. So I didn't understand why you wanted to be removed. That's a short statement. And thank you for your promise. You're welcome, Mr. Secretary, we thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0363par0022	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement. I didn't mess around. You didn't mess with me, I want to make a statement.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0364par0025	Mr. Irgil, of course, I'd like to ask you to take your seat, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0363par0026	For the record, I can tell you from here.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0364par0027	Okay, okay, we'll turn on your mike. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0363par0030	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Commissioner, thank you, too. I wish the harmony of the entire House were with your kindness and understanding. But you probably didn't pay attention to my speech. I didn't mention the motions on the commissions. I've shown this roof, this square. I cited the motions of any motion brought by the opposition in this parliament, the motion to question, the motion to investigate the Parliament, the law and the bill were not accepted, the question motions. Some commissions have, of course, compromises and agreements, especially for reasons stemming from the commissioner's position. What I mean here is the bill and the motions to investigate the House. Thank you, I feel the need to make that statement, thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0365par0034	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Now, let's begin the talks of section three. The third section covers the 57th to 85th article. Now, on behalf of the groups, the first word on the third chapter is for the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, the Adana MP, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş. Mr. Beştaş, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0366par0044	Mr. President, not twenty seconds, twenty thousand hours, twenty million hours is nothing to the struggle for democracy, it doesn't matter. After all, this is a view that all of Turkey should see. Unfortunately, nothing's going on the way it is right now. Yes, valuable lawmakers, the stage where the Ministry of National Education, which we've been discussing for days, is where we're currently studying this Bill of Law, the painting at home, the difficulties in education and education, the fact that primary language education is still banned, the practices for students, teachers, especially in Turkey, the exports, we're not really discussing any of this, but these are the main agendas. The ruling party -- as my friend, a member of parliament, just now stated -- determines the agenda himself, and then, on that agenda -- let it be proven by hundreds of thousands of scientific experiments, historically proven -- is rejected by the majority of fingers. So, really, is this democracy, is that the necessity of democracy? It's not. Right now, we're actually trying to run this parliamentary activity under the pressure of the majority, under its dictatorship. Isn't there something we're telling the truth about? Seriously, do we always say unrealistic things? I mean, do we live life somewhere else? Don't we live in Turkey? Do we understand different things than what we read? When we talk about the detentions, the economy, the dollar, Turkey's foreign policy, we're clearly wrong when we're criticized. Can we act from an admission called "Admission"? That's exactly what the opposition is supposed to do, do the auditing. There may be a majority of power, but democracy is not a majority regime, it's a pluralistic regime. The important thing is to breathe a real democracy and live through that pluralism, through Parliament, through life, through every aspect of life. What is the agenda in Turkey now? By God, it's not just national education, it's not a citizen's agenda. Right now, a citizen, for example, talks about EU-Turkey relations, relations with Turkey have been frozen, but what do we do? As a candidate for membership in the European Union, we set a policy by saying that you can't interfere with us by threatening to freeze these relations. There's no such thing. We can't assess 80 million people's fate, their lives, their standards, they don't have that luxury; they don't have that luxury; they don't have that luxury. Currently, people in academics, journalists, students, tradesmen, institutions and institutions are being arrested. The government's most fundamental policy has found that anyone who criticizes him, who speaks to him, who doesn't accepts him, will be thrown into prison. It's a terrible country. Turkey is now a semi-open prison. Those who are not in prison are also wondering when I will go to prison? In anticipation, he is anxious and almost normalized. Why is the government really doing this? I mean, it's very debatable, but he's got a lot of fear, he's paranoid, I'm telling you, he's become suspicious of everyone, every institution. Today in Adana, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy took 26 people from the institutions there. We're opening one, and we're looking at this police department: 50 officers have been relieved of duty, arrested. We're opening one: ▪ How could there be such a thing? Hundreds of people are taken into custody every day... huh, crime? Don't really think of anything as a crime, but I'm keeping the arrests of theft, murder, rape, harassment out of it. Right now, the biggest crime in Turkey is to criticize the AKP, to oppose AKP's policies; either you become Kurdistan Workers or you become DHKP-CL or you become something else. But we were just talking to fellow lawmakers, and there were three separate cases about an MP from both membership in the DHKP-C and membership in the PKK. There's a mental eclipse, and the word "paranoiac" doesn't even cover it anymore. Dollars go by, the ruling party's about to go out and say a prayer. On Twitter, on social media, jokes are going off. Here, burn your dollars. Change your $ 300 per dollar. Pull your dollars out of the banks, we need to fix the economy. Can that happen? In this economic strait, in this tremor, people can't feed themselves, business people are in great danger. In an environment like this, we say that it's all roses, everything that says anything to power, it's unreal, it's hostile. The other is that the people's will, which I hold in my hands, is in prison in Turkey. Don't look at me like that. We're not going to stop saying this until our friends sit down and get the right to represent the opinion of the voters they represent here. We told you at the group meeting the other day. Mr. Demirtaş is in Edirne Prison, as you know. Do you know what's going on in Edirne Prison? The censorship of Menderes was imposed on Menderes in 1960. I mean, literally, I don't have it with me, but I'm bringing it back tomorrow, first and last line, censored. What was being done to Menderes, Mr. Menderes? If there were more than 50 words there -- in my research -- the surplus was either cut with scissors or scribbled. Most of them were photocopied and subjected to another procedure. The size of the censorship -- we're learning from the history books -- was coming to such a dimension that only the address and signatures could remain -- I'm talking about the 1960s -- and in this way, the empty part could contain a secret message that was being cut off and returned to its owner; good news was not given, bad news was given. I can stretch this out. So, what's been done to our co-Chair? He sent us a few pages to present at the group meeting. It didn't come to us. The letter of a spouse general president with immunity and irresponsibility outside of the files of which he is now granted immunity -- a parliamentary member, leader of a party -- is one line left at the beginning of three lines, one line left on each page. What do we call this? What instructions can Mr. Demirtaş give us for what he sent us to read in the group? In addition, Mr. Demirtaş can instruct us as our Co-Chair, give us his opinion, address his views to the public from there. It's a law freak that's already there. At the moment, with his vote or the vote of other parliamentary friends, the Constitutional amendment can either be passed or blocked, or the outcome of a clause vote may change. Although their imprisonment is clearly contrary to Article 83 of the Constitution and the Constitution of the United States, we are not allowed letters there either in isolation or in consultations, and we are prevented from visiting our friends as MPs. Now, when you talk about it like that, maybe some friends, you know, dream world or something. No, guys. In Turkey, 2016, at a time when we claim to be the state of law, we are antidemocratic, illegal, unconstitutional, contrary to the agreements we are part of, we are trying to get kicked out of politics based entirely on the power of the majority, and you will never succeed. We'll have the last word, and we'll win for sure.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0367par0054	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Baydar, your time is ten minutes, but you have a request for a statement on behalf of the individuals, so I can combine it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0368par0058	Okay.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0367par0059	Let's make it 15 minutes, okay. Thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0369par0062	Mr. Secretary, welcome. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the number of Ph.D. graduates is a guarantee of the future. The doctorate thing is a real country thing, actually. In our country, there are approximately 75,000 academics with PhDs and titles who are considered to be the educated members of the universities. That's our number of PhD students today. For all these years, the number of active PhDs in the profession is almost the same as the number of students, 75,000. Alumni aren't even five grand a year. It is difficult for our colleagues to finish until the doctorate is finished, and this 5,000 graduates are extremely inadequate, one of the most important obstacles to achieving Turkey's short-term and mid-term goals can be said to be lack of PhD experts, scarcity and inadequacies. The number must be at 10,000 levels so Turkey can maintain its competitive position and claim in the region. Of course, Turkey's greatest contribution to achieving its goals will bring success in education. In order for the number of doctors to match Turkey's goals, in the short term, 100,000 people need to be planned and encouraged, and according to this action plan. The number of 5,000 graduates per year is expected to reach the level of 10,000, while this increase should be seen as vital for Turkey. The truth is, not until you graduate to the doctor. In Germany, where does the annual number of Ph.D. graduates -- 25 thousand -- five times ours -- travel to over 17,000 in England, almost four times ours -- while Brazil is 15,000 in Brazil, with the 5,000 in record as the number of graduates in Turkey? No wonder the poet carries the eagle with his head, canary, and we are behind the goals, as promised. Now, let's look at the subject from the point of view of students coming to college. Over 2 million students per year take university exams and only one-third of that can be settled. While the demand for higher education is still increasing rapidly, the lack of academies with higher education will result in poor and unqualified graduates. This will also lead to a reduction and elimination of the number of PhDs. Now, why did universities become targets in Turkey, where they were targeted? This is vital to the country. High school institutions, which have become indispensable, irreparable institutions, have become targets for those who want to run an operation on the country, which must be achieved. The July 15 attempt also showed that universities were targeted, universities surrounded, universities turned into the backyard of betrayal. 2.334 academics were expelled under the Code of Justice No. 672. Although about 15 per cent of these exports formed six groups for the doctor, around 2,000 trained academic staff of Turkey have been cut off from the academy. The situation in which these staffs have been reduced into the country will be better seen, considering the professor and professors' titles. Every choice is a choice and a choice. The loss of the country in terms of human resources will be better understood when the situation of those who are not eligible and are seen as missing. In particular, since 2010, the political and RD leg effect of the construction has increased the effectiveness of GERPs. The RCS members, which have been effective in the formation of the ESEC administration and the term chancellor's rankings, have been effective in the appointment of the desired as rectors for the request of the Å structure, towards positive discrimination in favour of this organisation. Certain names, however, have been easily presented to the presidents. Thanks to these rectors, there is also a reference to other state universities and a way for others to be appointed as chancellors. The organisation's extremities in the ECHR have also been effective in the coming of rectors in parallel construction and ulna contact at many state universities from west to east. All activities of the current ex-prime minister and members of the RCC, which are part of the relevant boards of the ECK, must be observed in this scope. You know, 14 rectors have been discharged because of ▪, including members of the RDC. These procedures must be looked at if we want to understand what their foot is in the YKK and universities. Whatever boards they've served on, assignments, exonerations, jury purchases, and, of course, professorial juries must be reviewed. The threat that the Turkish higher education system and the Turkish Republic of Turkey have been exposed to will be better understood, especially given which decisions have been passed in favour of whom, which jurors have been used for their appointment and promotions, especially when their professorship jury and exams have been evaluated in this scope. It's easy once the chancellor and the dean and the principal are in charge of any department of the university. Infiltration, placement, restraint and possession have been carried out as specific tactics. Advertisements to the address have been staffed. The doctorate has increased the number of its specialists by placing their fellow students in their master's and PhD programmes, and there have been various universities for their graduates. As a result, the position of the senior team has been also effective as well as as inclusion of the professorial examinations. Participants or fans were first brought to the university administration, where they were focused and then settled in. After that, the institution was completely infiltrated by subsidiaries and heathing assistants and investing in the future. Unfortunately, the people who gave birth to this structure in universities are still receiving staff, and the address is still being announced, and this is allowed. They are strengthened by organisational solidarity and organizational commitment, connecting to regular trust allowance or aid, scholarship campaign. These staffs were introduced into their own publishing pools, where more than one partner or multiple authorly literature was produced, which fed on each other by writing each other's names. Joint conferences at universities, where they are connected, are on the permanent invitation list of connected individuals, and are communicated with international universities through their own educational companies. Even people who go abroad -- when you look at them, when you look at them -- are done through the same companies. The editorial boards of academic staff assigned to the staff were provided with their name on the scientific boards, and teams of their own supporters produced the impression of a strong academic structure. The projects part is the most painful. The project was served to its supporters, including TÜBITAK, the project's distribution of projects, ministries, development agencies and university's project funds. To see this, you will be satisfied to compare the projects involving experts from universities with the members of the group who benefit from project funds distributed from institutions. When the project's expert team was part of the organisation, the materials were provided from a certain advocacy and resources were used. The introduction of project support to the relevant team, the removal of machinery, equipment, and other materials from a related company, and if necessary additional funding has been made completely normal and ordinary. As a result, members of their own organization have been opened up as the owner of a project that has been broadcast, attends international conferences, and has been seen abroad. The tenders were transferred to certain companies as blocks, the tenders were sliced up, the payments paid in advance, and even if the company left halfway through, the deficits were re-funded from the state budget. The results will be seen, Mr. Minister, after 2010, when the accounts and transactions of the companies provided, particularly the hospitals, the purchase of machinery and equipment, infrastructure investments, all of the resources used under the name of international investment. In fact, the selection of service companies, the canteens and so on, even businesses have taken part in this siege movement. This can be seen in more detailed studies of their own time, even for those who have been processed and who have been in charge. Although the issue was the move to move into institutions and takeover of institutions, it became a suicide in terms of the state. Judges, cops, soldiers, colleges, which are the training foot of this process and the source, unfortunately, have gone in the middle. Moreover, universities have become tools. However, many of the staff, beginning with the design, morality, business and public bureaucracy of society, have passed through universities. 3,608 professors exported under the Code of Law 672 and 675 are 3 per cent of the total number of faculty members. Maybe even this should be considered a separate panic issue. The lack of education, solid-based, dedicated to science, serious human inadequacy, the obligation to have academics at the required levels of need again will be revealed more and more depending on the time. The final question must be, if not now, when? There must be a training campaign and two phases to predict, as well as the removal of these elements from the system with objective evidence, as well as the immediate inclusion of new love for science and those who have previously been blocked, and the production of relevant new programmes. The Turkish higher education system is expected to recover itself again from the structure it has built, its own structure and its own creation. The issue is not just the problem of the SEC and universities; a mobilisation must be declared, especially the Ministry of National Education, Science, Industry and Technology, TÜBITAK, and even the TUBA must be actively involved in the process and together develop solutions. Mistakes and weaknesses are asked to be compensated by sacrificing the yellow ox, but what is neglected is that the problem cannot be solved until the causes and institutional structures that produce this structure are eliminated. Finally, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to draw your attention to Clerk Chelebi University. Why isn't there a process for the President of the Katip Çelebi University, which has been suspended, which has been suspended by the 370 professors he has appointed, and has been detained by 70, and has been expelled by 58, and has been expelled by the University Board of Directors himself and almost all except one person? Who is protecting this person, Mr. Secretary? We can't blame anyone because their relative is guilty, but we can't protect anyone because he's a relative of the former President, Mr. Secretary. When we look at Afyon Kobytepe University, why is the file on the Afyon Kobytepe University Rector of Afyon University, who was appointed to be the head of the YÖK Board of Control, who had been expelled almost all of the executives he had appointed? Is it Mr. Secretary who vouched for his appointment holding the case at the Police Department? Why isn't the SEC working on these two rectors, Mr. Secretary, or not doing anything? It needs to be explained who's protecting these men, Mr. Secretary. I present the matter to you and to the authorities. I salute the High Council. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0370par0080	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın on behalf of the National Movement Party Group over the department. Mr. Aydın, you've got a speech on behalf of the individuals. I'm putting it together, 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0371par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a promise on the third chapter on behalf of the National Movement Party. I salute the High Council. Yes, we're expressing our opinion on some of the provisions that will facilitate the services of the Ministry of National Education in the Bill 405 rankings today, but before we go into these materials, you know, our agenda is occupied with a more painful, more stressful process. We have pain, we have sorrow. Before the suffering of our brothers and sisters at the mine was yet to cool in our hearts, this was added to the disaster at Adana. We lost our children here, too. It's our grieving families, our grieving nation. Hopefully, we'll heal our wounded as soon as possible. On the other hand, we have a war of fever-induced terror. Hopefully, in the end, terror and terrorism will disappear with all its evil intentions, and we'll be rid of the black cloud over this country. Sir, there's also a policy of clamping a Turkey with an axis of the European Union. It's been a little intense lately. Whether we personally encounter practices at a point of definition or sanctions from European countries, or we face some negative decisions in the name of unity. So we have to take it out of this: so we're going to take it out as if they're going to take an opportunity to... to fight terrorism on one side in Turkey, to face problems on the other, to reflect this on the economic scene, to see the dollar rise, the unemployment increase, the reduction of employment, the loss of Turkish lira on the internal market, depending on the rise of the dollar...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0372par0090	Don't be poor...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0371par0091	You know, the numeral expression of this is really creepy. So around 20 percent say economists, so far, the loss of value in a year. To put it in terms of numbers, we have a loss of around $216 billion, a meltdown. Why did I say all this? To say that the agenda is very troubling, to express it. So -- we're just saying -- we're learning a lesson from this -- as a political will -- we've just been expressed here as wishes and wishes -- without hurting each other, without offending each other, without insulting each other, in a really level, based on knowledge, knowledge, knowledge, knowledge -- we need to work out the interests of our country. At this point, we, the National Party of Action, will continue to perform the effort we've done our best so far. In doing so, it is not our Machiavellian position, such as any political debate behind it, a political gain. Dear lawmakers, as in all fields of social science, there is a very important method in which political science often refers: rhetoric resolution. In this expression analysis, there's a language scientist named Ferdinand de Saussure, a French linguist, and then there's something we saw in a process that followed him all the way to the Chomskys: there's a very clear definition of language. What is language? All these linguists, they're pondering, they're describing a language that everyone can understand. What is language? Language is a means of communication, in a way, in very general terms, in terms of definition and function, in short, in terms of society, in the name of people, call people, call nations, or all living things. Language is a means of communication. So through this communication, we tried to get to know each other, to get to know each other, to get to know each other, to get to know each other, to talk to each other, to get to know each other, to get to know each other, to get to know each other. This great House is a typical example of this. Although we have different opinions, we try to understand each other through this common language, to understand some thoughts about each other, sir. That's the way it is in modern societies. I mean, we try to understand each other's worries, joy, boredom, success and failure. In modern societies, it is the official common language of education, which is used as a means of moving local, cultural wealth and property into the international dimension by making it a common national value, and it is called Turkish. It's a good thing we have a common language of formal education. Why? That is how We deal with one another. This common language is a great need, there is no point in running away from it, but in the last few days, sir, under the roof of this great House, we are witnessing a number of insults, a series of insults, sir, to the Turkish nation, which is his founder's will, and to the beautiful Turkish language, which is the voice of our union. Actually, I don't need to. This nation has demonstrated its founding will, and in the Constitution, it has guaranteed our nation, our state, the shape of our flag, the size and shape of our flag, and our common language. Now, can you understand why the National Movement Party has these four-point sensibilities? Because, really, there are a lot of problems waiting for us when the National Ministry of Education Agency's Law is being discussed. So far, various speaker friends have expressed in a good way: "Ya, let's focus on these problems. There's no sense or significance in expressing our current minimum partners, these values that have been guaranteed in the Constitution, again, and again and again and again and again and again and again, knowing every opportunity, and they're guaranteed. If there is speculation about these things, sir, if there is a change, a transformation of intentions, it will lead directly to a constitutional change or to a breach of the Constitution's assurances; other than that, it is said that the words are disputable. The process of nationalization... We're saying this all the time, and you all know, with all due respect, because if we really keep our memories fresh, it'll help each other more, and we'll understand each other better. Sometimes the language isn't enough, so we have to keep our little knowledge stream alive and share it. Dear MPs, look, the United States of America, believe me, is a state that has witnessed the migration of nations. Look, I'm not saying ethnities, I'm not saying communities, I'm saying peoples, it's a geography that's hosted a more advanced migration of nations. So, the migration process, which began with the British in the 1620s, had been a British colonial process all the way to the independence of the United States, until 1776, but then it took migration from all the nations of Europe. Look, people, I'm telling you, the Spanish is gone, the German is gone, the French is gone, the Italian is gone, and really, they've taken their culture with them, but they're focused on one denominator. In the United States, education and common language were English, as it became a British colony and later accepted English as a native language. Now, no matter which nation they migrated from, they accepted the common language and had to use it because understanding each other is a common means of communication that is essential to having a notion of the United States of America. Here's the means of communication that linguists describe, as they say. What was that? It was English for the United States, French for France, German for Germany, despite some local dialects, even local languages. Britain is a separate, typical example: it has passed through the Roman era, but there is no Roman language today; there is no Roman language; there is no French today; there is no French, but it has passed through the Cermen period; it has collected the dominant culture, the dominant culture color, its tone, and it has accepted English as the mother language, the common language. In fact, a second official language, a second language of education, has become a condition that even those who go for education have to follow. So, if you're going to the U.S., if you're going to Germany, if you're going to England, as a language of education, you're accepted by the official language of that nation and you're accepted by these conditions. Now, where do we want to go from here? Of course, the reason our Turkish is education and common language is because it is going through this process. This nation has shown great determination and determination. With all its ethnic elements, with all its local powers, it has placed a will and transformed its will into a nation, crowned it with the republic, and chosen the language of education as a common language. But that doesn't mean that we, sir, don't have native languages, don't have accents, don't have accents. No? Of course you do. And the reason we focus on a common language is because we agree to tell each other about ourselves. When my mother and the mother of a friend of mine from the Black Sea talk, I'm really happy that they're going to build such a sweet sympathy channel. Because when someone says "bibi" one says "hala" one says "eze" one says "teeze" one says "teeze." We come from such a rich culture. However, their claim to turn each one into a difference, an element of separation, into a form of education. It's not just about unity, it's not about revelation, it's about discrimination, dissension, sir, it's not about singleness, it's about dissociating unity. Now, let's just say I'm a very particular linguist again. I'm ashamed to say that Mr. Mehmet is getting a little angry, saying things like that, professors say a lot of things, but now... I've tried to make a toast, no teasing.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0373par0103	No, no, it's okay.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0371par0104	Now, look, there are over 300 dialects and mouths in London, the capital of England alone. They're really hard to get along with when they're talking to each other, but it's all about the richness of English. Our Turkish is also a very rich language. Believe me, only in my district, in Erzurum, there are over 30 languages and mouths. It's different when we go south, different when we're in the Aegean, different when we're in the Black Sea. These are our riches. Why, what are these expressions of? These are -- I'm telling you very clearly -- this is the expression of the blood of the nation being a blood-stainer by mixing it with its blood; this is the expression of this nation being a friend by mixing their lives. There's nothing beyond that. I shared a common memory with a friend of mine because of Teacher's Day, and he was my friend, my martyred friend, a brother of mine and Zaza, but he is my brother in this world and my brother in the Hereafter. Now, we really need to be one body at the point of stopping not dissolution, but integration, against all the contradictions inside and out. Let's focus on our common denominator here, let's not give up on our common values, because really, we're a nation, we're a continuation of a great civilization. With all our wealth, cultural or linguistic, we have to transform all of our wealth into a common value and look for ways to bring it from generation to generation to generation. Dear lawmakers, for him, we may have a really high tolerance at the point of breaking and hurting each other; we do, we do, we do, we forgive, we ask for forgiveness, but please, from our values, let's avoid these hurtful, corrupt, dissociative expressions, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0374par0110	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0375par0111	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0374par0112	Mr. Metiner, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0376par0113	No hard feelings, nothing.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0374par0114	Mr. Metiner, first of all, if I can find out what you're talking about...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0377par0115	Thank you. I mean, I guess we haven't really understood each other since last night.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0374par0117	You want to make a statement?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0377par0118	I just want to explain my position for a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0374par0119	Your position, yes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0377par0123	Kurdish is a language like Turkish, which means the more respected Turkish is, the more respected Kurdish and Lazca and Arabic are. The Turks are a respectable nation, and the Kurds are a respectable nation, but there is a nation that brings us all together.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0378par0124	What's everybody's name?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0379par0125	What's his name?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0377par0126	So there's no need to present Kurds as a subsidiary of Turks, Kurdish as a dialect of Turkish language, language, mouth. That we're a nation...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0378par0127	What's his name, what's everybody's name?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0377par0128	...in a common country, under one state, we need a sense of brotherhood to accept that we will live as equal to each other. That's all I'm saying, I hope it's clear. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0380par0130	Thank you, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0381par0131	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0380par0132	Mr. Aydın, you want to talk about your place. I'll turn on your mic.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0381par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, of course, I made a joke to Mr. Metiner about what happened today, so I thought I'd make a gesture and get his attention, but that means that whatever the intention is, it's the outcome, it's different in his mind, it's only yesterday, it's stuck in yesterday. He didn't listen to my speech either, because he had something in his ear, and when he took it out, he did his voice, and I wish he'd listened. I suggest he take the minutes and read them. I've expressed what you've just said in a very decent and demeaning way, Mr. Metiner, and I've expressed it more and more freely than you've simplified it. I certainly didn't express an advantage within a hierarchy system. While you were hanging out with a friend today, you made a professor joke, and I just said something to get your attention at that point. You, please, read the transcripts, and I advise you, you had your headphones, you didn't listen to me. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0382par0139	Well, thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0383par0140	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0382par0141	Mr. Metiner, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0383par0142	I didn't say I'd answer because he teased me, so I asked for an explanation from an issue from yesterday to be told the truth.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0384par0143	What does my position have to do with your head from yesterday?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0385par0144	It's not like there's any leftovers. What's left of yesterday? There's nothing left of yesterday.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0384par0145	Leave yesterday and go back to today. Take off that headphones, go back to today.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0386par0146	I didn't talk back to him. So, I've expressed my opinion on the matter, my argument. He doesn't have to be so touchy, claim he's picking on me, claiming I'm not listening with my headphones.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0384par0147	I don't resent you for anything. Are you the man to take it from?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0386par0148	I've given my opinion on the matter.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0387par0149	Well, thank you, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0388par0150	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0387par0151	Mr. Özkaya, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0388par0152	Mr. President, Mr. Baydar Afyon has just said a few things about Kocatepe University. He's been saying the same thing for ten days, and I want to make a correction.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0387par0153	Okay, just a second, let's turn on the mike.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0388par0155	Mr. President, I've spoken to the president about Mr. Baydar. Mr. Baydar. Mr. Kocappe's statement on the University of Afyon. He served in a qualified fraud investigation into Mr. Baydar. He was the chairman of the board of directors at Süleyman Demirel University, and he submitted a report on it. In particular, he says it was from here and that a very important part of the former Isparta University Rector and apartment heads were still under arrest. So it's not right for people to look at themselves when they're accusing others of crime... to turn around and say it for ten days. If there is, it's a crime, the state's attorney's office is open. We expect everyone who commits a crime to be investigated and required by the judge. I wanted to declare it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0387par0157	Thank you, Mr. Ozkaya. Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process over the department for 15 minutes. We'll give lawmakers who enter the system the right to ask questions to the Commission and the government, respectively. Half the time, which is seven and a half minutes, belongs to the MPs, and the rest belongs to the Commission and the government. Initiating question-answer sequence. Mr. Iron, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0389par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, my first question is, how many universities do we have in the top 500 rankings? I want to know their names. I have a second question: especially the large university hospitals are really in a very difficult position, both economically and technically and technologically. University hospitals owe 5 billion dollars, according to the head of the CEC five or six months ago. When I ask the government, a study is being conducted. It's being tried. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do you have any work on this?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0390par0170	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0391par0171	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, on December 19, 2007, you issued a regulation on the Protection of Buildings from Fire. In addition to setting up a fire detection system in this regulation, you have excluded educational institutions in a certain amount. In the case of the Chamber of Electrical Engineers regarding this, although the verdict was cancelled, the decision was set to be corrected. Are you going to carry out this court-ordered cancellation? You know, you've got a troubled Ministry of State in implementing court decisions. Will you bring to these educational institutions the obligation to establish a detection system related to this fire? And our disabled teachers often ask about February appointments. Can we get a clear line of information on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0392par0175	Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0393par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, good evening. Mr. Secretary, first of all, as you know, there's a lot of examples of what happened after the incident and before you went and saw this hand in its place. This is about elementary school and junior high dorms -- private dorms -- both our government and us, we all suffer a lot. There are a lot of suspects, allegations and cases, and there are motions for parliamentary research on this issue, and there are commissions that have been approved. Can't the Ministry of National Education issue a private housing inventory of Turkey through the governorships -- now that you've handed over that authority to the governorship in this 5th article? Who are they, where are they, and who directs them? Wouldn't it be good for all of us if we did an audit on all of these, wouldn't it be good for you? And secondly, if you could just say something specific about the teachers who have been revoked, I mean, these people are unemployed, waiting, and there's no ruling on them. What can be done about them? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0394par0182	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0395par0183	Mr. Minister, the name of the University of Niğde has been changed to the pride of Niğde. Why was the name removed? Is there a new study to arrange your name as Omar Halisdemir University? While the University of Niğde has the University of Çamarir University of applied sciences, the school is closed, but there is a school building that is left unfinished due to lack of funding, which started in 1999. Is this building to be completed, and is it considered to be completed and reopened in Çamardi? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0396par0186	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0397par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there is a claim in elementary schools that folklore is a problem for girls and boys to play hand-in-hand, when public games are removed and blocked. Is there such a ban?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0396par0189	Mr. Ilican...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0398par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, first of all, the good news that you gave for the disabled teachers who could not be appointed in a meeting before this has made 1,500 people very happy, and we thank you very much for that. Secondly, two weeks ago, our Deputy Minister's Driver Educators Confederacy had an instrument, and it was very useful, and we held a press conference with a first-born Republican People's Party member in parliament. They're already going to share some results with our Ministry. However, the reduction of these courses, according to population density, has been their most prominent desire to capture a quality from here. I wanted to present this to you. Again, thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0399par0194	Mr. Paylan...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0400par0195	Mr. Secretary, I've just heard the statements of the families of our children we lost in the BBC, Aladağ. I think we can't watch these statements about the gag order from our own national media. They say that it was a house of Solomonites. Is that true? Do you take our children from one congregation and entrust them to another? Can you fill me in on that? He claims it's a wooden structure, he claims it's burning carpets, and you say he's passed inspections. Are you launching an urgent, urgent investigation into those who conduct these inspections? Will this crime go unpunished? You said you'd take classes. But every year we'd be faced with a fire like this and sacrifice our children. How many lessons will we learn? You're a new minister. I'm asking you immediately, is the crime going to go unpunished? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0401par0198	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0402par0199	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, we've seen a lot of broadcast bans so far, but it's the first broadcast ban in Turkey for after a fire. I mean, after the fire broke out, we're in the first phase of the gag order. Why is that? Second: How many such private dorms are there in Turkey? What is the distribution of these dorms to congregations? How many government dorms do they have, government property? At the same time, does your ministry have the number of quotas for the disabled in both the staff of teachers and the staff of employees, currently available? Do disabled people work in their quotas, and at the entrance of schools, ramps related to the entrance of disabled children are not in most of our schools? What are your studies on that? I'm the 1st District MP in Istanbul. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In our area, drugs are sold a lot around the school. We've asked about this -- we've asked about this before -- but these measures haven't been taken.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0403par0206	Last question, Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0404par0207	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, every election has a problem with schools for the disabled. In schools with a few floors in particular, disabled people vote with crow pumps, and unfortunately, some disabled people don't vote because their dignity is being broken, too. Maybe it's on the Election Board, but at the National Education Department schools, they vote for disabled people. Are you planning on taking any precautions on that, any studies? Also, do you know how many students live in dorms like the one that burned down in Adana yesterday? Do you know how many dorms there are? That's what I want to ask you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0405par0211	Congressmans, thank you. Mr. Secretary, the rest of the time is yours.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0406par0213	Thank you. Mr. President, depending on the texts in front of me, I'm going to try to answer questions without a question. The number of private student dorms in secondary school is 2,242, totalling 69. It's 544. There are private student dorms in my higher education, and the number of them is 1,641. In high school, the number of people staying in private homes will be 129. Again, will the fire detection system be applied? They say that every collapse teaches a march. Hence, we must learn a lesson. Now, the investigation is ongoing, both in the judiciary and administrative direction. As a result, we'll definitely get something, but for fire measures, I'm a little bit more technical, so I'm a bit more of a lawyer and my technique -- I definitely need a fire system, it needs to warn people, it needs to have an automatic suppression system. However, I can't...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0407par0217	But that's a flaw, Minister.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0406par0218	Here, we'll do it, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0408par0219	But it was burned three years ago, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0406par0220	Look, maybe we should talk about... The country was opened in June 1997, and was converted into a sorority in 2010, with the capacity of 54 students. On 18/11/2016, the Aladağ District National Education Directorate was notified in November 2016 by the institution in which 31 students were staying in their dorms. The institution was audited by its financial inspectors on 26/10/2015 and by Aladağ district National Education Directorate on 26 May 2016. Under the supervision of the Maarif inspectors, every floor where the building is protected from a possible fire escape -- how much fire tubes prevent the fire, so this is a lesson -- the periodic maintenance of fire tubes may have been done -- I've seen it, but I've seen it somewhere else, but it doesn't seem to be enough to put out this fire -- that the civil defense teams have been updated, the fire extinguishers have been conducted...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0409par0222	On paper.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0406par0223	But, obviously, it wasn't done properly, so if it had been done, a two-story, three-story place would have been saved if it had been given a good education. The building also has a fire escape. Under the supervision of the Aladağ District National Education Directorate, they are stated to have taken the necessary measures against the fire in the city building. One of them has four financial inspectors, the other one has 1 National Ministry of Education staff, and the other one has staff of the trustees. On 29 November 2016, around 7:30 p.m., at the Aladağ Middle School School for Girls... the investigation continues, I went and saw the dorm in Aladağ, but when we left, the prosecution was still investigating with three prosecutors. Ten of our students have passed away, so we're waiting for the results of the investigation into the building's entry panel. At this time, the YIBOs in Adana have 1,518 quotas, which are connected to our Ministry, and we have 1,047 students left, so we have about 500. In Kozan, we have -- the nearest place to Aladağ is Kozan -- 360; we have 176 inhabitants; in the rest of 360, there are about 200 spaces. We've put these brothers and these boys in boarding houses in Kozan, but after we've settled them in, they've gone to the villages, they've talked to the families, and they've convinced them in some way. When we say, "Why didn't you?," some say that Kozan is far away, and some say that the road is not good, some say it is not because of the road, some say it is because of the distance, some say it is not because of the distance, but rather because of Aladağ. What are we supposed to do? More dorms. Right now, we have one home in Aladağ, 164 capacity, 82 girls, 82 boys, full. Another person's foundation has been dug up, with 300 beds; hopefully if we do so, there will be no problem in Aladağ.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0410par0228	We need to train the controllers, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0406par0229	I agree with him, I agree with him. Another: Are you going to appoint an obstacle? We will appoint 1,500 disabled in February. We already think that the disabled teacher's in the neighborhood because everyone knows people who are disabled, so look...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0411par0231	How old are your average children, Minister?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0412par0232	What's an underage kid doing here?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0406par0233	They're old, but they're all children, let's just say, children. 7th grade, 8th grade, 6th grade, all children; age 5 to 8. Again, I said we'd make 1,500 appointments.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0413par0235	In February, Minister?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0406par0236	Yes, we'll appoint 1,500 disabled teachers in February. A total of 18,728 disabled people work in our ministry. Another member of parliament asked, "Is there a ban on football games?" I don't think that's true, so it's probably just a misinformation. In the first grade, four, two hours in the second grade, two hours in the third grade, two hours in the third grade, game and free activity. We've recently signed a protocol with the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism has the Department of Fine Arts, which includes special public games units, experts, teachers, teachers, so they'll come, they'll even train our folk games group. So I don't think there's such a thing as a lift.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0414par0240	There are allegations, examine them.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0406par0241	No, they've got hours, but... one day, we'll go to school together, and if we see it together, it'll make sense to us. Mr. President, if you'll just give me a few more minutes...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0415par0243	Of course, Minister, complete.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0406par0244	Also, Niğde Ömer Halisdemir, head of the University of Niğde Ömer Halisdemir, was taken away, and was left only at Omer Halisdemir University, and left in Niğde. This is said not only by you, but by many, if a connection is appropriate, it is called accuracy. On top of that, Congress agreed. I wish we had put Niğde (Niğde) in when he was accepted, because the goal here was to appreciate the heroism of Omar Halisdemir, and the recognition of that appreciation by the Parliament. I think it would be appropriate if the name was mentioned. I think we need to work together on this again. Will crime go unpunished? Mr. Prosecutor has issued a warrant for 14 arrests or let's just say he's been taken into custody because after he's been in front of the judge, he's got a warrant for his arrest. Among them are the dorm manager, guard, and three other visiting women, and 14 of whom have been placed in custody. We say that justice shall be done, and justice shall be done; and whoever errs, and whoever neglects, it is proper for him to be put to task for his deed, and justice to be done.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0416par0246	What the families say is that it is the home of the Solomonians...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0406par0247	I mean, that's not what we're saying, he's a Solomonist. Look, I said, what year is it? It was opened in 1997.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0416par0248	Parents tell me.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0406par0249	Yeah, well, he can, and I'm not saying no, but I'm saying I don't have that kind of spreadsheet. Yes, thank you, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0417par0251	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on chapter three are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three separate motions on Article 57: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and request that more of the declaration (e) of Article 57 (e) of the National Education Ministry's Act on Agency and Missions (i.e. Metin Lütfi Baydar Ceyhun İrgil Haydar Akar Aydın Bursa Koseli Mustafa Ali Balbay Özkan Yim Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the phrase "four" in Article 57 of Law Bill 405 be changed into "eight." Garo Paylan Sibel Yiğitalp Adem Gaveri Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Berdan Özturk Nimeullah Erdoğ Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 57 of the main Law Bill (1/711) in the following way. Zuhal Topcu Erhan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Kadir Koçdemir Deniz Depboylu Desire Virtue The first verse (a) of Article 74-3795 of the Law has been changed as follows. "a) Graduates from vocational and technical secondary schools and graduates from other vocational and technical institutes, whose equality is accepted by the Ministry of National Education, and graduates from these schools are "technicians," "e) For those of you who have completed two semesters of engineering training by the engineering faculty appointed by the Higher Education Board for those who have won the technical teacher title, Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0418par0278	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0417par0279	Mr. Kadir Koçdemir. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0419par0282	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. To those who lost their lives in the incident that broke our hearts in Adana today, I pray for God's mercy, condolences and patience on their families, and I also say that I find it necessary to impose a gag order, as the young children after that, when they close their eyes, they think that they are gone, that they are invisible. We're still discussing events that don't suit Turkey when we compare to the world of 2016 and its historical collection. I'm afraid we don't have much time to discuss the main issues. Turkey has again been involved in the study of international science and mathematics education announced today. When we looked at it, the 4th and 8th graders of many countries that we didn't like were ahead of us. In the 4th grade, we became 35th and 21st in 47 countries, and in the 8th grade, we became 21st in 39 countries. From PISA to other areas, outside of education, from democracy to freedom of the press, from the index of living to the state of law, our situation is unfortunately incompatible with this legacy, which does not suit this heritage. What's worse than our situation being bad, especially in the indexes that have been released every year in the last five or six years, is that we're going to go worse than we did a year ago, and trends and trends are going worse. Today we're discussing a bill for the Ministry of National Education. The Ministry of National Education should be the ministry with the best use of our beautiful Turkish. We've seen a lot of spelling, sentence installation errors in previous materials, and there's something similar about the material I'm talking about. For example, we call them schools. There's no school, there's no building. We don't use the word "remove" in Arabic, "deposit" in Arabic, "deprived" in Arabic, "resolved" in schools, for buildings, for institutions, for legislation, for an application. Again, the second paragraph, which is added in the second joke, can't tell what it's meant if an average child who's been tested for studying science, mathematics, or PlSA. So, higher education goes to those who have won the title of technical teacher, just for those who have won the title of technical teacher, if we put the word after the law, this sentence will be a little bit more consistent with the semantics of Turkish, subjective-sponsor code. But we're doing something else at the same time as this stuff, we're rescinding predictability. When we make a college choice, we make it a competition for some people who change their status and don't study engineering with them. Recently, our government has unfortunately become incompatible with these savings and regulations. Lastly, Mr. President said yesterday that the main goal of Operation Storm Shield was to overthrow Assad. Today we need to explain this. After their statements, I think we tried to explain it with a phone call from our northern neighbor at noon. I mean, with a gag order, I think we have enough government experience, diplomacy experience to know that it can't be run by a state of constant excitement. If these are the solutions, then let's also ban the dollar that goes up the head, so that they don't publish the instant dollar bills on TV, so that we can continue to do a lot of other negative things like kids who think they're invisible when we close their eyes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're gonna have to drop this off or we're not going anywhere good. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0420par0292	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0421par0293	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0420par0294	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0421par0295	Now, right after Metin Bey's views on the chapter, Afyonkarahisar MP Ali Özkaya responded to him about the rhetoric and said that Metin Bey's response was not in the form of hostility, but in a manner that he expressed -- that, in a way, the chancellor had created a perception of him because he had previously been the chairman of the Board of Review and had investigated Metin Bey. Therefore, we would like to speak according to 69 ▪ in order to correct this perception on Metin Bey. He's getting picked on.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0420par0297	Mr. Akar, I believe you're a spokesman instead of a group vice president.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0421par0298	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0420par0299	I'll consider your request, but Mr. Ozkaya has made his statement. So, Mr. Baydar....and Mr. Baydar..
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0421par0300	Mr. President, I don't want a word from 60, he won't make a correction. There's a direct accusation about Metin Bey. I want to talk about bullying according to 69.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0420par0301	Don't you want to make fun of me?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0421par0302	Yeah. On the stand, if possible.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0420par0303	Well, come in, Mr. Baydar, I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0421par0304	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0422par0305	It comes with a name.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0420par0306	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0423par0309	Mr. President, I was appointed President of Süleyman Demirel University from 2004 to 2011. After I became president this semester, a certain group was particularly disturbed by this, and they filed hundreds of anonymous complaints. I had an investigation into one of these in their own mechanisms, first the Police, then the Accounting Controller, and then I applied to the university again. In the wake of the investigation, the CEC Board arrived and said there was no need to investigate. However, similar procedures have been carried out on many of the rectors, especially since Mustafa Solak (Muslims) was the chairman of the Executive Board of the President of the University of Koböltepe in Afyon (Afyon) and began to be a known hit man. The decision has been made, and the court has approved it. Then I was tried and acquitted in the opium courts. After we were acquitted, it was decided again that we should be retrialed with the arm of the obvious structure. And after my immunity was lifted, I went to the Afyon courts and gave my statement. I trust in the great Turkish justice. Other than that, during the time that I was President of Süleyman Demirel University at the university, of course, we had a serious struggle with a lot of people in the university, but the chancellor who was arrested after me and was appointed by the SEC in particular didn't take office in my term, he started in my previous term. That's what I want to say, I want to correct his statement. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0424par0313	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. Congressmans, I will now submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0425par0320	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0424par0321	We've got a roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0426par0322	There aren't 20, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0424par0323	We'll do the roll call before we vote on the motion.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0426par0324	Mr. Akar, you need to get up with 20 people.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0427par0325	Mr. Vice President of the group, we'll complete it from you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0426par0326	20 people will stand up first.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0427par0327	Okay, we'll get it done. Don't worry about it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0426par0328	There's no completion. Mr. President, we need 20 people standing.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0427par0329	Let's count the standing friends, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0428par0330	Mr. Akar, please...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0427par0331	Okay, I admit, let's count the standing friends. Look, my friends are up. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0428par0332	Mr. Mush, what happened?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0429par0333	Mr. President, a roll call is when 20 MPs stand up at the same time.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0427par0334	Yes, well, your friends were standing, Mehmet.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0428par0335	Yes, they're standing now, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0429par0336	Mr. President, I told you there weren't 20 when they got up. Let them pick it up, so they can get up.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0427par0337	It's all right. Actually, there were 20 people standing in the living room right now, with your friends, there's no problem.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0428par0338	Mr. Akar, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Irgil, Mr. Yım, Mr. Kayşoglu, Mr. Mr. Assel, Mr. Topal, Mr. Karan, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Beseler, Mr. Karböyik, Mr. Minister, Mr. Göker, Mr. Pekşen, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Tanal. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll begin the procedure. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the phrase "four" in Article 57 of Law Bill 405 be changed into "eight." Garo Paylan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0430par0353	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0428par0354	Diyarbakır MP Nimethullah Erdoğ has been on the proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0431par0357	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I, too, want to share the deep sadness of this disaster as a nation, as a nation, as a nation, as a nation, as a nation, as a nation, by joining the former oratories, and as a nation, I hope that they will have patience with their families. Of course, we have a habit of explaining these events with destiny. And when I say that, I don't mean in the sense that there's a pattern here. We all have that habit. I'm not going to get into fate, because it's one of those unresolved, unresolved issues for me. But if you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain in a few sentences the word "sister" as a brother. Why? Because lately, the word power for the government has often been used. If we use the word power as a human being, as a person, as an entity, I won't be able to enter the danger of that as an acuity, but I'd like to point out a difference. When power is a divine adjective, it's different when it's used for God, who is all-powerful and we believe in him, but for the sultan, when it's used for human beings, it immediately meets with blindness. This is constant with history. Look, I'd like to share with you an example of power blindness from the Qur'an. He explains his blindness with Pharaoh's might when the Qur'an, Moses, grew up in his palace. In his own palace, he tells himself how Moses, who believed in his own power, and believed in his own power, grew up in the palace of such a tyrant himself, was obsessed with the blindness of power. And politically, I want to give an example from the United States. As you all know, the U.S.A., Vietnam, Lebanon, Afghanistan, Iraq and so forth, they have wars, occupations. Before this Afghanistan, you know, the Soviet Union has an invasion, and ultimately defeat, the collapse of the Soviet Union. That's when the U.S. comes in. There's a rumor that a US official and a Soviet official have been having a conversation, and the Soviet official tells the US official that you've been in a great deal of trouble, and I regret to say so. In return, the US official, without hesitation we will kill, we will end, we will destroy, we have that power." he says. The recent operations, the recent attacks on the caves, the endings, the end, eventually they saw that the end had not come, and they were defeated and left. It's a common destiny for nations, for countries, for characters. I believe and I hope that this country, about Syria, will review its politics there in time, and God forbid, will not cause this kind of trouble, will not become an addict. As I finish my words, I'm not going to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that our co-chairs and lawmakers, who are currently under arrest, wish for their aunt in our time, all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0432par0367	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğ. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and request that more of the declaration (e) of Article 57 (e) of the National Education Ministry's Act on Agency and Missions (i.e. Özkan Yımım (Ağük) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0433par0376	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0432par0377	Mr. Özkan Yım on the motion.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0434par0379	Mr. Court, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, my dear colleagues, I salute you with my love. Yes, Mr. Secretary, I would especially like you to listen carefully. Dear friends, last night I want to return to about 7:00 p.m. to Adana, and to the time of death of 11 of our daughters and one of the officers in the dorm in Aladağ district. Worst death in the world, unfortunately, burned to death. Many of us have daughters of the same age, children of the same age, and many of you have grandchildren of the same age. Please, instead of these children, especially Mr. Secretary, you must have grandchildren at your age, so let's put ourselves in the shoes of these children. I just got a report from the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office on a crime scene. Construction expert Mr. Kazim Simsek, electrical expert Muharrem Başinoğlu, business security and electrical expert Ahmet Bulbül, machine and class A business security expert Hasan İhsan Pepedil. That's exactly what they wrote: there's no running current relay. The Minister is being audited by inspectors on June 2016. So, why wasn't it inspected or reported after being inspected, or why wasn't it done? I also noticed by the occupational safety expert that the fire escape has no handle. I would especially like to point out, Mr. Secretary, that it is 1700 p.m. in the parish dorms. As of 00, all the doors are locked, the students are completely cut off from the inside. It's 17 o'clock when the doorknobs, the windows open, the arms are ripped out, and they're screwed so they don't even get away. From the beginning of the 00, I had information that even the girls' cell phones were collected. Mr. Secretary, if our children had this doorknob, could they or could they not have survived? Of course God knows that. Eight years ago, however, our 18 children died and died the same way, and no one is responsible, and no one is under arrest for it, or the responsibility is yet to be known. The easiest way is, unfortunately, in a fire caused by electricity, no criminal is found or wanted, not wanted. I say, especially in Europe, but not in Turkey, that electricity in the dorms should be renovated every year by the engineers' room, and that natural gas and heating facilities should be inspected by the engineers' room every year, and that this document has a year's validity, and that building in Europe should be given a report of integrity every five years. I specifically state that these should be done, and I will submit my motion to the Parliament as soon as possible. Hopefully, it'll be approved by all my party friends, and we'll make it a bill and we'll make it a law. Because the lives that go are the lives of all of us. There are now 12 houses in mourning. I want to make it very clear that the death of these children was the worst death in the world. I would like to point out that many of the rooms of the principal or executives in the congregation dorms are lampbrids, tree coverings, and all of the floors are covered with carpetflexes, and in the same way, almost all of the roofs of these dorms are made of wood. I believe the wood should be removed from our collective homes and should not be. In particular, in 2009, it was written and legalized what buildings were supposed to be like. I'd like to underline that the building should be a brick building, prefabricated, steel or concrete. It is specifically stated that there should be no wood. In case there are no new deaths, Mr. Secretary, I'd like you to do a more careful investigation. Thank you. I salute the entire House with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0435par0391	Thank you, Mr. Yum. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three separate motions on Article 58: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and request the addition of the declarations of approval of the National Education Ministry, which is in Article 58 of Article 58 of the Ministry of Education, which is currently in session. Metin Lütfi Baydar Ceyhun İrgil Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Haydar Akar Mustafa Ali Balbay Ali Özcan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 58 of Law Bill 405 be changed in the following way. Garo Paylan Sibel Yiğitalp Adem Gaveri Berdan Özturk Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan "As part of this Law, the competencies and responsibilities of the members of those with the title are determined by the regulation prepared by the Association for Professional Qualification, with the views of all ministries, the State Chief of Staff, the Higher Education Board and trade organisations within the framework of national and international professional standards and competencies." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 58 of the original Law Bill (1/711) be changed in the following way. Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy The second joke of Article 6 of Article 58-3795 of the Law has been changed as follows. The authority and responsibilities of staff with titled titles under this Law are determined by the regulation of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Ministry of National Education, Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communication, the Ministry of State Staff and the Board of Education prepared by the Employment Agency under the standards of national and international profession." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0436par0419	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0435par0420	İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem will speak on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0437par0423	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to make changes to certain Law and Law provisions by the State Department's State of Education of 405 rows, and with respect to the Veteran Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the clause is one of the matters that need to be focused on. I'd rather focus on the importance of education from the ruling party than on the matter, and on what we've come up with so far. I want to tell you how it was designed in my own way. I want to tell you how new changes are made before we put the changes into the system. Every time a minister arrived in the education system during the AKP's rule, he came with new practices and came with a new system. But radical changes are essential. I would especially like to address the Minister here. I'd also like to give you some technical information on language. This is important. I also believe he should be in the education curriculum. Language is a living instrument of agreement. With language, people in society understand each other; they interpret events, they learn history and culture. Self becomes identity through language. The common values that form the national identity are carved into our minds through language, reflected in our actions, allowing us to transfer the material and spiritual values that we carry from our past to our present. The foundation of national festivals is national anthems, the symbol of our unity, and our glorious flag is our most important symbol, and one of the most important national values that excites us all. In the time of the Ottoman Empire, dear friends... Mr. President, there's a hum. May we warn you, please?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0438par0431	Congressmans, there's a hum in the General Assembly. Please listen to the minister.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0437par0432	Yes, I understand that no one wants to work, and I can see that from here, but we're going to try and explain it. There were two kinds of languages in our country during the Ottoman Empire. One was in Ottoman language, especially in science, in literature and official correspondence; the second was in Turkish, which most people use in everyday languages. In order to ensure national integrity, this language had to be especially expanded and developed. Therefore, the development of Turkish language has been carefully focused on. Language is vital to the integrity and future of a nation. Disintegration in language deprives people of the values that sustain them. Language is the bridge from the past to the present, and it's how we transfer our savings to the future. Again, I want to give you an example from Gazi Mustafa Kemal, in case you notice: "We must know that nations living in two parts are very weak and very sick. " In that sense, I want to tell you who is Turkish in the sense that our national values should be taught, especially in the curriculum of education? ▪ This country has become a high stage for a high expression of the world's extraordinary existence, which the world has never expected. This scene is a seven thousand-year-old Turkish cradle at its lowest. The cradle swayed with the winds of nature, the child in the cradle washed in the rain of nature. And the child feared before the thunders and lightnings of nature, and before the hurricanes; then he became accustomed to them; and the father of nature recognized them, and became their son. One day the child of nature became nature; lightning, lightning, the sun; he became Turk. That's the Turk. It's lightning, it's a hurricane, it's the sun that lights up the world. I'd like to tell you about unemployment in our country and some valuable lawmakers. Last year, 435,000 people increased to 3 million 493,000. This is the data from the Turkish Statistical Agency in August 2016. If it were to be calculated now, unfortunately, thousands more have been added; these rates and numbers have increased. The unemployment rate rose to 11.3 per cent, with an increase of 1.2 points compared to last year. In our country, one out of every four youths, perhaps three, is unemployed. I see the demands that come to me, and those demands are bound to come to you. Our undergraduate graduates, who are not especially employed, must be given a staff. In my next speech, I'd like to count these positions. My wish is that the ruling party will consider it and do what it takes to open these ranks. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0439par0439	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 58 of Law Bill 405 be changed in the following way. Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan (Van) and her friends "As part of this Law, the competencies and responsibilities of the members of those with the title are determined by the regulation prepared by the Association for Professional Qualification, with the views of all ministries, the State Chief of Staff, the Higher Education Board and trade organisations within the framework of national and international professional standards and competencies." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0440par0449	We disagree. On the motion, Mr. Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan of Van MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0441par0453	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Yeah, if kids are dying somewhere, it's got to be the kids. The children who were burned alive in the fire at Adana Aladağ have really hurt all of us, and we are deeply shaken. It is not wrong, of course, to say that we are deeply grieved, that we are shaken, that it is very painful; we all felt it. One of the reasons for such intense sadness is that it's actually a feeling of anger, a sense of insecurity, a sense of injustice, a sense of punishment for those responsible. We all know that the sense of justice and trust that comforts you in the face of pain is the feeling of absorbing that belief that it will never happen again. In the face of such a tragic death, perhaps nothing will make up for the pain of the children of those families, but take a real responsibility, make a sincere apology, take steps to reassure everyone's conscience that there will be no one like it, perhaps improve that feeling. The main duty of politics is to produce these policies, and the government takes responsibility. As you learn the details of the event, there's a lot of data that angers you, and we're getting more and more concerned about questions and concerns. The mayor makes a statement and says the door to the fire escape was locked. The Deputy Prime Minister says no, it wasn't. We learn that a boy who survived the disaster says: "The door had no handle. " Some of the children were able to escape by jumping out the window. As the details of the incident were revealed, we learned that the funeral of the children who were surrounded and burned together was found outside the fire escape on the 3rd floor. We've been waking up to nightmares almost every day, and we've been hearing about harassment and rape and abuse every day. In 2013, the ruling party decided to shut down the YIBOs. When the YIBOs suddenly closed, thousands of children in the middle were placed in hundreds of dorms, such as these slums, with no problems of education, housing, without a solution, as if in subcontractoric logic. No civilian inspections, no legislation. All the families who spoke in yesterday's disaster said the same thing, and the YIBOs closed. No schools in the village, no teachers. They said we had no choice but to settle in this house. One father said: "We had no chance to criticize, we had no choice." According to the National Ministry of Education's Central Education Administration, private homes concerning children in secondary school cannot be opened. You have to keep that in mind. The government did not allow civil society to study these dorms, as it should, and we all know that very well. Condolences are not enough for ministers to go to the scene and get information, but those who have neglected the incident will be punished. It is not enough to say, we have 14 people in custody. There's been an arrest warrant. It's not enough. Answering to the journalist who asked if you had taken notice of the incident, did you do an inspection? You think you are very clever. From the very first moment on, the stairwell was actually open. It is certainly a shame to make excuses, to try to throw responsibility over it, and it is certainly not political shame, and it is not the conduct the public expects. According to confirmation of the incident, the child's age range is 11-14, and the children were burned alive and died in agony. Last year, six children were burned to death in the Qur'an course in Kulp. There was a similar incident eight years ago in Iconia. In the case in Kulp, and in the incident in Konya, there were no cases that could have ended, nor were there any prisoners in the files. Thus, the idea that someone or some congregations were protected was the first thing that occurred to us. Without realizing what happened yesterday's disaster, how many children we've lost, the magistrates have brought a gag order. And that's unacceptable. Bringing a gag order is an issue of concern; if there is a gag order, the general opinion of everyone will be covered up. The public's right to be informed is being blocked. Besides, bringing in a gag order doesn't change the fact that 11 kids were burned to death. Instead of bringing a gag order, what needed to be done immediately was to make sure that all processes and problems were dealt with in order to be exposed. It shouldn't be that hard to apologize. We'd expect an official on behalf of the government to apologize to the families and the public who lost their lives because of yesterday's disaster that led to our children's burning deaths. But that apology isn't the AKP government, it's a lock on the Home Secretary's doors, which is closed under the State of Emergency decree. Let's see... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's see. It's called the Children's Association of Agendas. Dear lawmakers, no child's death is normal, it's unnatural. The child's right of life is the truth and is indispensable.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0442par0468	Thank you, Mr. Ozky Ertan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and request the addition of the declarations of approval of the National Education Ministry, which is in Article 58 of Article 58 of the Ministry of Education, which is currently in session. Ali Özcan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0443par0477	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0442par0478	Mr. Özcan, before I call you, Mr. Kayishoglu has entered the system, and I promise him for a minute based on his location, he will make a statement. Here you are, Mr. Kayishoglu.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0444par0482	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, students who were educated at Kılıçaslan Elementary School in Iznik district of Burma were fed such food as raw meatballs, toast, fries and meatballs from the canteen at feeding time, and when the threeth, fourth graders went home, most of them were taken to the hospital in the evening with signs of vomiting, high fever, fatigue. From the news just now... I mean, do schools have cafeteria inspections, inspections, sanctions? I'd like to know about this and about the students. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0445par0489	Mr. Ali Özcan, Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0446par0491	Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of my party on the 405th Amendment bill. I salute you all with love and respect. We just had some unpleasant conversations about the July 2nd Sivas massacre. Once and for all, we have to consider this: Maybe he didn't account for the statute of limitations of judgment that burned in the Sivas massacre, and the one who set up behind the scenes of July 2nd, and the one who worked there to make sure that the statute of limitations was overturned, but in the presence of God and in the face of history, this account will surely be taken. And it's a certain friend you all know who says, "Good luck." But I think that's a road accident. Dear friends, I have come to this House with a humble heart today. It's burning inside me, it's tearing me apart. We've lost 11 children, 1 citizens, and when we weigh this pain with our consciences, we need to talk about what this House must do today so that this pain doesn't happen again. In fact, we all need to learn from these souls, their children, their grandchildren, and from this sad event. I ask God's mercy for the souls we have lost, and my condolences to your relatives. This loss of lives is a matter of mentality to me. We're arresting the dorm manager; it's the government who's in charge, the Minister. I'm calling to tell the Minister here that I'd really like to ask you to take on a responsibility by taking a position here. We build big palaces, we build big courthouses, we build big prisons. In fact, we don't want big prisons, we don't want big courthouses; we want big schools, we want big dorms, we want habitable, we want equipped, and we want healthy housing for everyone without discrimination. Of course, it takes a really secular, democratic, modern thought to make it happen. That's how stability comes, that's how democracy comes. Now, the power that seeks morality in the heart and minds must rely on young people and children without discrimination. What do you mean, this door's locked? What do you mean, chaining doors? It's a great shame in modern times. We can't trust our children to the minds of the unobstructed, and I'll tell you again: we can't trust the brains to the minds of the unobstructed. Especially when we're out of the woods, we'll never, ever be able to entrust it to other congregations. We wanted the perpetrator to be set up here as a research commission on certain murders. Yesterday, we wanted something to do with the Tahir Ambassador. We're talking about bringing the country's problems to the light, bringing the killings to the light, but we can't get together. At least all parties should be united in this matter. We build big bridges, we build highways, but the price is high, and we give them to the same people. But please -- it's worth a thousand bridges -- in order for all of these lives to never happen like this again, we really have to come together today and live with modern, creative, productive young people, and how we're going to keep them in dorms, and how the government will back these young people in social state until they finish college; we have to discuss this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For 12 years, we had a fight with ▪. You acted together, you walked the road. There was a coup attempt, where our country almost became a third-rate, fifth-grade country. Actually, it's the mindset that chains the door, the thought... We should, in fact, develop a political climate on the basis of free thinking, rather than mortgage social thought and will. I'm asking you, all friends, come, we'll set up a research commission on these issues, about dorms, about our young people at the university, and we'll do the execution, and we'll talk together about how to build these dorms, Mr. Minister.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0447par0501	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on Article 59: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 59 of the Law Bill 405 be removed from the bill. Garo Paylan Sibel Yiğitalp Adem Gaveri Berdan Özturk Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mizgin Irgat The signatures of the other motion are: Metin Lütfi Baydar Ceyhun İrgil Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Mustafa Ali Balbay Haydar Akar The signatures of the other motion are: Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0448par0524	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0447par0525	The first speech on the same proposals belongs to Mr. Mizgin Irgat.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0449par0527	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, I say I welcome the incident at Adana, and I offer my condolences to all the families and all the peoples of Turkey. At this point, I have a suggestion for the Minister of National Education. Whatever the name is, we propose that all homes in this ministrene, which are open or planned to be opened from now on, be closed, because it has been seen in the Karaman file, the Ensar Foundation, and in the events in various provinces of Turkey, and in the recent case of Adana, which cannot be inspected, and every day around here, we face a crime, a loss of rights, and we face a situation that will cost the lives of our youngest. So I think these dorms should be shut down immediately. This arrangement for national education, in fact, is an ideological area, given the organisation of national education as a whole. Yes, scientific, original education, beginning from the years of science, free thinking, perhaps objective, objective personalities, even elementary school, secondary school, and high school, is unfortunately being made an ideological field in Turkey for years to come, operating painfully for years. It is clear that the final arrangement, again, is in a different way, with this approach, and is a regulation of the AKP government's own interests and ideology. When we look at the SEC, we see an arrangement that has become a judge, a prosecutor, and we also see academics under the pressure of investigation under the statute of limitations. When we look at all the studies that have been done at Hakeza universities, we're talking about a government-based institution that communicates to students what the system says. In the 59th article that we are discussing, we are looking at an arrangement that is being pursued by the ideological field, to investors in national education, to capital groups. So this arrangement envisions the adoption of goods and services under the FATHIH Project, outside the public tender standards and law. So, what we're trying to do here is, as part of the project, we're going to have to go after certain environments. What's been practiced so far is that we're trying to get legalized here. The exclusion of the Public Contraction Act means that these services to certain groups, to those who have certain interests, must be followed by the taking of these goods. We can see that the AKP's environment has openly presented an intervention in the economic field in the area of capital and a Rant area under the name of national education. Before I finish, I think that the objection to this is not only for Peoples' Democratic Party MPs, but also for their counterparts, the other group's deputy presidents and other lawmakers, as we look at the empty chair of our Group Vice President, Mr. Idris Bauken. The same blow to this Parliament on July 15th was actually done to this House in the presence of our party on November 4th. What's a coup when 10 members of this House aren't here right now, and they're locked up in prisons? The Constitution, the ECHR, and hundreds of decisions indicate that a member of parliament, who has taken over this power by taking the votes of the elected, will act in its place, at the legislature, without any interference in the National Assembly. But, unfortunately, today, at this time, Mr. Idris Baluken, who may have received all of your commendations... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he's not here and our ten other deputies aren't here. I propose that this fundamental bill be passed, and I demand that the freedoms be brought to this House in a hurry by this Parliament, and that our MPs be evacuated.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0450par0537	Thank you, Mr. Irgat. Mr. Haydar Akar is the MP of Marseilles on the same basis.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0451par0540	Mr. President, members of parliament, yes, I'm going to talk to you about Article 59. What's our motion on Article 59? It's about the FATIH Project. When we look at the FATIH Project, we can view it in two directions: we can view it as a project that is in a dead end, and in another way, a project that has been sunk in corruption. So there was a pyramid scheme set up here -- Mr. Minister, I specifically state -- that the citizens involved in this Ponzi scheme were not questioned, there was no investigation, they were assigned to other ministries, other institutions; this project started with 8 billion budgets in the first place in this institution, and so on. Now, they're trying to save this project. What was the project? It was announced in November 2010. Did the project have technical infrastructure? The project definitely didn't have technical infrastructure. He took a tablet. Who took it? At the time, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan took a tablet and tried to introduce it as a world project to both Turkey and the world. It wasn't a world project; they had a tablet, they were going to distribute these tablets to the students, they were going to conduct this project by communicating with these tablets, with smart boards, you know. But when was it announced? It was announced just before the 2011 election. What was it? It was another bribe. Who's it given to? It was a bribe to the citizen, and the project was carried out like this without any technical infrastructure. We will finish in five years. They said, "This project should be finished by December 31, 2015." How much money has been spent on this project so far -- 2015 and 2016 -- with the Minister's testimony until this month? $2.3 billion spent. What was the budget? It was an 8 billion-dollar project. In fact, when you put TELECOM (TECOM) into it, when you put other companies into it -- because it has a lot of feet -- it's a project that has 20 billion, and believe me, it's turned into a project that doesn't do anything but fund the allies today. Why did this project turn out like this today? Because this project was built under three main topics: one was infrastructure, the other was hardware, and the third was software. If you look at the infrastructure, both the online network to schools and the housing, the students' homes, must be met with the Internet. That Turkish TELEKOM is here today in 10 million,500,000 families -- most of them not yet on the Internet, but in copper wire -- the world is surrounded by fiber nets -- still trying to do it today with copper wire. So, does he have the infrastructure for school or is he ready for it? So it wasn't enough to bring the Internet to the school door, but it had to be prepared from modem to the modem, from the direction, from the Legrand channel to the classes in the classrooms called the "Wi-Fi" to the "Access point." Do you have these today? I'm going to give you numerical figures on the existence of these, Mr. Secretary, but I'm going to say they're not true. So, what's in the hardware? There's an interactive board. You've succeeded, 60 percent of the interactive board is complete. We're going to use Indian technology. They said, "There's no native of this one, and close to 70 percent of them are foreign origins." Do these boards work in schools? Mr. Minister, I invite you, don't tell anyone, one day we say, 'Come, 'Aydar Akar,' say, 'Let's go to a school that I have chosen...'
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0452par0547	Yeah, okay.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0451par0548	We'll see that the planks don't work, we'll see that the tablets don't work. It's software-sized. The software size is much more interesting, look, guys, the software size. A company's sales manager is being recruited as software consultant, receiving 34 million dollars worth of software. Once the software's been bought, that company's sales manager's consulting mission is over. The consulting mission of the 34 million-dollar software company is coming to an end. And the money paid to the company for counseling is $5.5 million, friends. It's unbelievable, this FATHIH Project. Now, there are so many details that I can tell you about this for an hour, technically, I can give you the numbers, but with that logic, I think it's better to tell you that the work done by this technology is not true. Yes, the tablets you gave me three years ago, four years ago, Mr. Secretary, are not being used today, they can't be used. They won't be able to use the others in a year. So this project is a project that was originally born dead. The meaning of thirty tablets in the same class, the communication board in the same class, going from a single wi-fi in the same class, or the meaning of an Internet outlet at a school is this: it's like putting a hundred lanes on a three-lane highway, it's impossible. That tablet's gonna run out of energy, those kids' tablets are gonna malfunction, but without any countermeasures... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you've spent $2.3 billion. It's a shame, it's a sin for this nation's money. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0453par0555	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: Any purchase of goods and services under the FATH project will not be subject to the Court's audit, as well as the purchases of goods and services. Any expenditure in this area is expected to be removed from the text, as it should be in accordance with the Law of Contraction and open to the Court's audit. I submit the same motions to your votes:
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0454par0560	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0453par0561	I've asked you now, Mr. Botan, you're late. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. There's a demand for a reduction. I promise the commission. Here you go. Mr. President, with due respect to the compliments of the General Council on the provision of Article 54734 and Article 10 on the basis of the additional clause added to the law. Okay, thank you. Your words are on the record. I submit the clause to your votes on the request for reduction: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are four motions on the 60th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the reference of the 405th Amendment to the 405th amendment in the article (3) of the current 405 rows. Garo Paylan Sibel Yiğitalp Adem Gaveri Berdan Özturk Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 60th article of the current 405 rows of the Bill of the Law be removed from the bill. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Mujahit Durmişoğlu Halis Dalklıç Ilyas Candy Osman Love Look The signatures of the other motion are: Metin Lütfi Baydar Ceyhun İrgil Mustafa Ali Balbay Bornt Yener Bektasoğlu Haydar Akar Veli Ağbaba The signatures of the other motion are: Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Argin Erdem Deniz Depboylu Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We're giving credit for it. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0455par0596	We agree with the motion to release it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0453par0597	Do we have grounds for the same motion, Mr. Mush?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0456par0598	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0453par0599	I'm having it read: It was dated 20/8/2016 and there was no need for the project of investments number 6745 and for the amendment of some Laws and Laws Acts to be made in accordance with Article 57. The Article of Law 5018 and Article 28 of Law 5018 were replaced, and there was no need for the 60th article of the same content bill. Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu on the other proposal of the same nature.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0457par0604	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Movement on Article 60 of Law Bill 405. I salute the Veteran Assembly. Dear lawmakers, some changes have been made in Laws 5018, 5809 and 6114. In addition, online access services to schools, maps, plans, projects, education and counseling services, electricity and natural gas purchases limited to examinations, printing, distribution, transport, video surveillance, and exchanges under test security and secrecy. Regarding these procedures, the Council of Ministers has been authorized to increase the load to five times higher than three years. Mr. President, one of the main changes made in this article was the FATHIH Project, which the AKP government announced in November 2010, said it began to implement projects in February 2011, which it claimed would be completed in 2014; and in 2016, the project, unfortunately, was not a proper one. As part of the FATHIH Project, smart board application was initiated in schools, but teachers who would use this system and transfer it to students were simply educated but were not authorized, so the project did not give the request, and billions of dollars in budgets for the project were also wasted. The broadband Internet in schools is very positive that the teacher is connected to the Internet when he sees the need. We have to trust teachers and students, support them to interact with each other and with the world, and there's nothing wrong with that understanding. Take this computer to the teachers, improve yourself, be in touch with the world. No one objects to giving a computer, a tablet. You will use this book, this interactive board, and you will use this tablet, and we will follow you. The pressure is not appropriate. In a billion-dollar project, adequate preparation has not been right to make the entire country a pilot's practice without planning, without interacting with public opinion, without dialogue with experts. Without convincing the teacher, without making him part of the process, there can be no serious success in the project. The current project's management structure should be expanded, independent scientific boards should be included in the project, and the project should be spread throughout the country only after positive results from pilot project applications. The project must be developed in dialogue with all the partners, in a transparent and liberal way. In my opinion, with this project, it has been raised by a generation of wasted, undisputed, undisputed, undisputed, non-responsive Turkish nationals, who have traveled in different ways to the same range, away from national and spiritual values. Dear lawmakers have also changed the Law on the Offices and Missions of the Centre for Measurement, Selection, and Placement in Article 6114, in Article 60 of the Law Bill 405. According to the law, printing, distribution, transport, surveillance, and purchases covering test safety and secrecy are also required to be separated from the Public Contraction Act, which is limited to examination procedures. Is corruption in the 2010 KPSS exams not going to be done anymore with these changes? Will the public recruitment process cameras be activated, or will the oral exam be recorded? After printing and distribution, will the pamphlets be leaked to a number of organizations or cults again? Or do the public want to be persuaded to take the lead in these transactions? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear lawmakers, union members, people who read a newspaper, went to school, to a school, or stayed in a dorm or their children have been left a lot of victims. KPSS and CPS thieves and their responsible ones are still unaccounted for, and many innocent young people have failed to rank their scores because they are stuck in the dam and have not been placed in the schools and workplaces that they want. I wonder if any of this has been concluded, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0458par0613	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. Mr. Veli Ağbaba will speak on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0459par0617	Mr. President, thank you. I salute you all. Of course, I'd like to start with what the President said yesterday. We went in there to end the reign of Esed, the tyrant who terrorized the state, not for anything else, he says.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0460par0620	Right. Did he say it wrong?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0459par0621	Dear friends, this is the triumph of the will given by our friends, who say, "I will." This is the end of the House by the President. If you're willing to let yourself be ignored, we can't say anything about it. But, as the CHP Group, we say from here that we do not accept this challenge, and we protest it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, of course, the agenda is intense. Many of the public employees were discharged due to the July 15 coup attempt. At first these exports were said to have various criteria for these arrests, such as by Lock, Bank Asia, depositing money, membership in various trade unions, but then it became understood that they were different. That's what the AKP claimed at first, but after a while, we began to see examples of this not happening. In many institutions, people's lives have been blackened with tip-off letters, tip-off phones. Some officers from everywhere, sometimes trying to hide themselves, sometimes people started the world's most dishonorable job, the snitching, the snitching, the force. Dear friends, in the last few days, give me three names, get rid of them; give me three names, without arrest. They say, 3+1 has come, so give me 3 and get rid of 1. Dear friends, people whose lives have never crossed with these people, Fetollah, began to be thrown out of business. Because some people's brothers went to Fetullah school, some officers' mother-in-law Bank opened accounts for Asia, some officers' children were sent to Fetullah school, and people were fired for taking loans because their interest was low. Dear lawmakers, because only people have sacrificed to Fetullah schools, because they have received scholarships for their children, because fathers have given scholarships for their children, sometimes children, sometimes parents, sometimes women, sometimes women, have been thrown out of work, their lives reduced to prison. You know the principle of personality of crime, dear friends, the principle of the personality of the crime that we've always boasted of, the crime that everyone boasts about... look, the AKP's mayor was arrested for financing his son-in-law Fetollah investigation, and the mayor is continuing his post in the capital city. A member of parliament's vice president's brother continues to serve as the vice-president of arrest for alleged coupger. In fact, these MPs, to be honest, have the principle of the individuality of the crime, and everyone must continue in their duties. But the principle of the individuality of the crime, the valued lawmakers, exist only for AKP people. The principle of personality of crime is not for poor, poor officers' children, not for officers. Dear friends, look, there's a Fetullahist everywhere. You say, there's a teacher, there's a doctor, there's a cop, there's a worker, there's an architect, there's an engineer. Where isn't he? Not just in politics, but not in the AKP Group, dear friends. The poor officer has it, the poor have it, but you don't. Look, there are imams everywhere; brother imams, sister imams, soldiers imams, police imams, imams of judgment.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0461par0629	Does CHP have an imam, CHP's imam?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0459par0630	And the MPs don't have imams? I'll tell you, for example, the imam of retired soldiers -- I'm not saying anything -- I don't know if it could be you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0461par0631	Are you an imam of the CHP?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0459par0632	So, who's your Imam? There's a backstage imam. So, who's the group imam?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0462par0633	Who is the imam of CHP?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0459par0634	I'll tell you one thing: during the 24th term, December 17th and 25th, December 17th and 25th.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0463par0635	Veli, tell me the imam of CHP.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0459par0636	I wonder who the group imam was during the 24th term, if December 17th or 25th. Now, who's the violent imam, and who's the imam?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0464par0638	Who's the irrigation imam?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0459par0639	If it is the 24th term, explain yourself, and go out. We don't have it. For example, take a look in the mirror, take a look. You know, 17-25 miles, you'd be surprised. It's everywhere: MPs appointing officers, appointing teachers, appointing judges, not in them. Can you believe that, can you guys believe that? Look, if you're sincere, you'll fight it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0465par0640	Look at the party council, the party council.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0459par0641	Don't shout, I wonder, who is your group imam? Who's the lobbying imam here, who's raising their hand? Now that I know about the raisers, it's not right to blame them, it's not appropriate because you're using them with the hands raised by some of our friends, not according to the agenda. I don't blame anyone, I don't bring that kind of accusation to anyone, but I'm curious again... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, Osman Bey's here, and I'm not saying anything to Osman Bey. I mean violence, language...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0466par0644	Ask Birgül Ayman, Birgül Aymana!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0459par0645	I'm not saying anything, but I'm curious about that, too.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0466par0647	Ask Birgül Ayman. Ask Birgül Ayman. Who is the imam of CHP. Ask Birgül Ayman.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0467par0648	Thank you, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0468par0649	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0467par0650	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0468par0651	Mr. President, Veli Ağbaba has made the General Assembly laugh and rejoice in his usual way; we thank him.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0467par0652	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Members of parliament, I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The 60th article has been removed from the text in accordance with the motions adopted. That's why I'm being removed from processing the other motion on matter. In order to avoid any confusion in terms of matter numbers, we continue to talk through the existing materials of the number of lines text. In writing of the law, the matter numbers will be identified as presidents. Now there are two motions on the 61st article, which are of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 61 of the Law Bill 405 be removed from the bill. Garo Paylan Sibel Yiğitalp Adem Gaveri Berdan Özturk Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Gaye Çalıer The signatures of the other motion are: Metin Lütfi Baydar Ceyhun İrgil Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Mustafa Ali Balbay Haydar Akar Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We don't agree, President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0469par0671	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0467par0672	The first speaker on the same motions is Eskişehir MP Gaye Beþelier.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0470par0674	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the esteemed MPs, there was quite a bit of noise in my speech before the lunch break. I don't use certain medical terms -- of course it's impossible for fellow lawmakers who aren't doctors -- to know -- to cause delusions. I want to explain for him. The human brain consists of two parts: the cortex shell side, subcortex shell side. Now, subcortex is roughly where emotions, impulses, instincts are produced, first memory data.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0471par0676	You teach CHP a lesson first, to CHP. Teacher, it would be useful to give the lesson to CHP first.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0470par0677	The cortex is where the data is synthesized and synthesized, where thinking happens.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0471par0679	Give it to CHP first, Hajji.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0472par0680	Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0470par0681	Now... I know your immunity, it doesn't matter, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0471par0682	What do you mean? What do you mean? Oh, you've been a teacher. Do you look good in it? You've been a teacher. Does it look good on you? Is that how you treat your student? Is that what you tell your student?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0470par0683	Now, through sub-shell similarities, the shell operates on differences. Look...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0471par0684	Look, we're getting information from you. Look, you're giving us information.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0473par0685	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0470par0686	...we all came here by choice.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0471par0687	Okay, that's right, but is that how you treat your student?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0470par0688	We have the rights and homework to be chosen.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0474par0689	Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0470par0690	We've come by choice to express it, we have rights and homework.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0475par0691	Yeah, don't look up at people, don't look up at people.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0470par0692	However, listen to the good news - quarreling...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0475par0693	Tell it over there, over there.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0470par0694	...is subcortical. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) (Applause) (Applause from the ranks of the people who criticize me are unjust, and the one who praises me is right). The word "subcortical" is subcortical.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0475par0695	Yeah, you're doing it, you're doing it. You're doing it. It's your job. It's yours.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0470par0696	Now, your group vice president said, listen carefully...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0475par0697	Is this how you teach your students?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0470par0698	I told them, they know, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0475par0699	Oh, yeah? Oh, okay. Did you tell him?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0470par0700	Now, your group vice president said: "You are the only type. Now, there's pluralism in the face of monotheism. In countries with multiple ethnic groups, different sects, these two definitions become strategic. You see, in England, Canada, India, Spain, there is pluralism in democracies, so no one there will say that we came out of the chest, you came out of the chest. Your duty is not to rule the minority, your duty is to protect the rights of the minority.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0476par0702	Tell that to the president. How many elections did you lose, Teacher Gaye?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0470par0703	In Turkey, Bulgaria is preferable to monotheism, especially in the last 14 years. By whom? By you. What did your group vice president just say? Most of it is us, he said. Here we are the one type, most of us. It's the understanding that we came out of the chest.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0477par0705	What a teacher! Poor thing!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0478par0706	He's a teacher, but he reads what he knows on paper.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0477par0707	Poor, poor thing!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0479par0708	Now, I would like to address your cortex as part of the FATIH Project...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0480par0709	Very funny, teacher, very funny!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0481par0710	And you read what you know on paper?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0482par0711	You're so pathetic, teacher!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0480par0712	So if you had a cortex...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0483par0713	Think about what it's like to get jobs and transactions, goods and services out of the Public Contraction Act.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0482par0714	Hodja, you're in a bad way. Teach the lesson there, teacher, teach the lesson there!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0483par0715	See, a project that started in 2010 will end in 2014. You said...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0482par0716	Oh, dear!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0483par0717	You said it was 2014. Oh, dear! In 2015, you said that in 2016, you said that it was 2017. What a pity!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0482par0719	Oh, dear!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0483par0720	Now I'm asking your cortex...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0484par0721	Sir, please ask him in a way that Osman would understand.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0483par0722	What are you trying to hide with this bill? Why would you want to take it out of the Public Contraction Act? What's hiding, what's hiding, I'm asking your cortex, and you're asking. Now, you know the corruption of the FATIH Project better than we do. What have you got? There's corruption in the tender process, there's corruption in bureaucrats and private company executives, even as far as we've seen in the media. And yet, it still doesn't seem to be worth much to this country -- Mr. Minister, I salute you -- for the Ministry of National Education... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to end the FATHIH Project, which has become a shame project...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0485par0727	Thank you, Mr. Niceer.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0486par0728	He's freaking out, he's freaking out.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0485par0729	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0487par0730	Mr. President, there are two issues: First of all, he accused our congressman of insecurities; this is a direct assault on our congressman. That's why we want to speak to him. It's about the band.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0488par0732	I didn't mention anyone's name. In the transcripts...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0489par0733	He didn't even mention Osman Bey's name.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0490par0734	I didn't tell Mr. Bak. He says.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0488par0735	I didn't mention your name, I don't know your name.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0491par0736	Mr. President, look, he accused me of insecurities by pointing at myself.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0492par0737	He's never been mentioned; please take a look at the reports.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0491par0738	I don't think he's right, but I have to answer.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0492par0739	Look at the records, he's not mentioned. Mr. Orator never told him to speak, didn't say his name.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0493par0740	Mr. President, what does that mean?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0494par0741	Mr. Mush, I'm going to take a look at the reports.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0492par0742	Your name has never been mentioned.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0493par0743	What does that mean, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0494par0744	I'll take a look at the records.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0495par0745	Mr. President, they did the same thing here last time, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0493par0746	Mr. President, what does that mean?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0494par0747	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0496par0748	Your name didn't come up, we remembered you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0497par0749	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0494par0750	Mr. Look, I'm going to look at the reports, Mr. Mush. Yeah, what's the other one?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0497par0752	Here's the second thing...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0498par0753	Don't look at people from above.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0494par0754	I'll take care of it, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0497par0755	The second issue is that he expressed my name as the deputy leader of the group, expressing that we are the only type. This is an open challenge to our group.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0499par0756	No, he said you accused us of being one type.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0494par0757	Is that why you want to talk about it?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0497par0758	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0494par0759	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0500par0761	Mr. President, promise me, of course, that the members of the group will always speak, so I guess... Mr. President, just a second...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0494par0763	Just a second, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0500par0764	Our congressman said, "You're a monotheist." He didn't say, "You're one type." I don't want to pick on...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0494par0765	Okay, now Mr. Mush will answer, Mr. Altay, let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0500par0766	But I mean, there's nothing to answer for.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0494par0767	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0501par0770	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we listened to the preacher here; I think he missed his lecture, so he tried to teach a lesson here. He's always able to go back to college, where he can explain these medical terms to his students. We don't need those medical terms. Now, here's the thing.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0502par0772	You don't need anything anyway.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0501par0773	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the question is, where does it come from? We recently -- I remember Mr. Altay was in the CSI Commission -- we made a change in this National Education Act, we brought in this 4+4+4 educational system, the flexible model. How was he before that? Eight years uninterrupted, you have no choice, and without a choice, you have to.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0503par0774	Unregistered words.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0501par0775	What did we say? We're here, we're interrupting this. We said, "If anyone wants to go to any part, we've given them the right to choose." Now, I'm sorry to give you this choice, but no one can accuse us of one type of understanding because we've given Turkey a model of education that offers more opportunities and opportunities here, and this is Turkey's achievement. Anyone can send their child to any side, get any education they want. It's true that many have no right to a minority, that's true, but the few have no right to a majority, and that needs to be known. (EC PARTY Applause) We've never approved of a one-type concept.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0504par0778	Wow, Mr. Mush, wow!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0501par0779	We've never accepted a one-type concept, we've denied it. I'm saying we've been held in power by this nation for 14 years because we've rejected it, we've embraced all of Turkey's regions, we've embraced all of its colors.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0505par0780	What have you done with the country in 14 years?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0501par0781	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0506par0783	We can't tell the untraceable.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0507par0784	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0508par0785	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0507par0786	Mr. Bak, the reports haven't come in yet. I'll take care of it when I get back, I promise. If there is, I promise I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0508par0787	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0509par0788	You went to Fidel Castro's funeral. You're going to a dictator.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0507par0792	Now, Ağrı MP Berdan Özturk on the same grounds.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0509par0794	Fidel Castro is a dictator, isn't he? Right? What have you done with the Republican Party? Come to your senses, poor thing!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0510par0795	Read some history, history, history.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0507par0796	Wait a second, Mr. Ozturk, just let it go, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0509par0797	You go to the dictator's funeral like Fidel Castro, you go to his condolences. You're a storyteller.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0510par0798	And that's an imam.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0507par0800	Mr. Agha, I've invited the minister to the stand.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0509par0801	Don't come while you're gone, Agha, you go away, move aside. Don't come while you're gone, bro.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0507par0802	Mr. Sergeant, please... Mr. Ozturk, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0511par0804	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on Article 61 of Law Bill 405. I salute the General Assembly. As part of the FATHIH Project, it organises that the Ministry can launch charges for up to 15 years in the costs of technological purchase, maintenance, repair and business. The FATHIH Project is a project in which public resources are transferred to certain capital groups under the name of technological infrastructure and development opportunities in schools. The AKP's government, which has excluded temporary regulations and purchases of goods and services as part of the FATHIH Project so far, aims to make this situation permanent. The FATIH Project, which began in 2010, was expected to reach 8.5 billion euros, was enough to boost the appetite of large companies, but the project has been idle for six years when the intention is different. You know why? Because he has a name, he doesn't have a project. The project, named after it, has no context or links to the network. The regulation for the FATIH Project predicted that all operations would be completed by December 31, 2015, but do you know what can be done at our destination? Some of the schools have an infrastructure, but there's no outside connection. The subject of content is highly criticised by teachers and academics. The tablets are only 10 per cent of the amount mentioned. This is the state of your huge, great, great project that you've been able to come to for six years. Now, what's the latest on the project? The latest situation is that Arçelik, the three companies that continue the tender, is said to have been taken samples from General Mobile and Vestel, and that the prices of these specimens can be finalised in the coming days. Under the tender, the students will receive 10 million tablets in four years. Tablets will be purchased from two different firms, 40 to 60 percent. Now, I'd like to ask the government spokesman, Mr. Secretary, when will the evaluation of samples from the Ministry of National Education be completed? What's your plan on that? Despite such negativity, the reason why the project is still so persistent about the project is because of the financial volume, and it's not how many people are going to get a cut of this material volume, or it's not because students are going to be integrated with the world in the age of knowledge. Face it, you screwed up this project. Instead of dealing with projects like this, go ahead and protect children under the protection of the state from harassment, rape, and fire, stop chasing public resources into certain capital groups, called public technology investments. I just want to give you an example. In response to a written application to the Ministry of National Education for claims that an unlimited online union is around 70 euros per month, the Ministry stated that the Internet system, which is obliged to use in line with the smart boards established under the FATHIH Project, has been paid between 2,500 euros per month for its monthly use fee. Look, can you see the ratio? So when the unlimited Internet is 70 euros, the ministry's answer said that the Internet price paid in parallel to smart boards is between 2,000 and 2,500 dollars. Even these figures clearly show how public resources are being drawn to certain environments within the scope of this project. From here, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, what tenders have been given to the close-up companies as part of the FATIH Project until 2014, when your rants and power fights began? How much money was transferred to these companies? Dear lawmakers, under the FATIH Project and the smart board, the technology demagogues by the AKP's power failed to produce a thousandth of the quality a black board produces in education. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0512par0813	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three separate motions on Article 62: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the "result" of Article 62 of the National Ministry of Education, which is currently in line 405, be replaced as "in the process" of the declaration "in the order" of Article 62 of the Bill of Law on the Organization and Missions of the Ministry of Education. Metin Lütfi Baydar Ceyhun İrgil Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Mustafa Ali Balbay Haydar Akar Haluk Pekşen Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 62 of Law Bill 405 be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Saffet Sandzaker Kamil Aydın Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu "Students who have been subjected to internship during vocational and technical secondary school and higher education during vocational and technical secondary education, while "reading at the higher education or field education" (b) of Article 5 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510 (b) at the end of the joke. "Students who are subjected to internship and 'exertation period' in accordance with Article 41 of this Law when they are in vocational upper secondary schools with apprentices mentioned in the 5/6/1986 Law on Professional Education 3308 or during higher education. In the event of debt, the date of which apprenticeship and internship began is based on the start date of insurance." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article sixty-six of Law Bill 405 be removed from the draft text. Garo Paylan Sibel Yiğitalp Adem Gaveri Berdan Özturk Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0513par0840	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0512par0841	On the motion, Mr. Siegel Yiğitalp of Diyarbakır MP.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0514par0842	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we've been talking about the national education law for two days today, but I'm actually seeing the bleeding wounds of the country being looked at from a place that's been ignored, avoided from discussion and even trying not to hear if possible. However, I'd like to remind you of 1994. In 1994 -- again, our party tradition -- when our friends from the DEP have been arrested and the current government argues or talks about that period, it has said that there was a very heavy bill for that period and that the economic crisis and the vital crises have been going on ever since. In fact, in 2005, in 2007, the current President, the Prime Minister of that period, Mr. Erdogan, I will solve the Kurdish problem and develop new policies over this Kurdish problem." he said. However, when you look at it, no concrete, practical, legal steps have been taken on the plane -- as no steps have been taken about the solution -- the problem has become deeper. In the period you have been looking at from 1994, 70,000 people have lost their lives. These 70,000 people -- if in 1994 the Kurdish problem had been considered a political problem -- that's the truth -- and if it had been seen that there was a problem with the democratisation of this country, then maybe 70,000 people would have lived today. Now the same déjà vu, look, twenty-six years have passed, same mentality, same logic, same approaches. At the time, the fear of dividing the country, the fear of seeing the Kurdish problem as terrorism, is no different than the present approach, perhaps even more violent than the present. When you look at that period and compared with this period, the balance of the world has changed so much, I still find it difficult to understand the insistence on primitive mentality from 26 years ago, when the conjunctive has changed so much. Do you believe that the fact that 10 of our friends were arrested today, the continued conflict in the Kurds, the arrest of thousands of people, will solve the Kurdish problem? If you had believed that the Kurdish problem could be solved with this, it wouldn't have continued. If it had been solved... over and over again, with these military operations, with security policies, everything was done; villages were not bombed, thousands were not arrested, villages were not burned alive, people were not burned alive, thousands were not in prisons, were they not subjected to life sentences, were they not subjected to severe torture; everything that could be done was done, not as a Kurdish problem, but as a terrorist problem, and it wasn't solved, and it wasn't solved, and it wasn't solved, and it wasn't solved. Look at our number at the time, look at our number now. Our voter number at the time was 100 grand, and now it's 6.5 million. Today, we need to accept that 10 of our friends have been arrested, that until the country's economic stability, this political crisis has gone to economic instability and a serious economic crisis, along with many casualties. You can ignore it here as much as you want, you can deafen your ears as much as you want, and you have to see the truth no matter what. Over and over and over again, maybe thousands of times there's been this problem, but thousands of times the same approach, the same style. A little up-to-date, you say: "Ya, how do we solve this Kurdish problem?" This Kurdish problem is Turkey's democratic problem. Let's talk about this by getting democratized, discussing it. But oddly enough, in no way, the slightest sanction, the slightest...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0515par0846	You've got a gun.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0514par0847	Especially as a woman, as a woman, as a mother, you have to have a reflex here for everyone who dies.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0515par0848	Don't expect that, don't expect that with a gun in your hand.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0514par0849	But oddly enough, it immediately became such a conditional reflex; the moment you call it Kurdish, terrorism; the moment you call it Kurdish, security. This will not be solved, and you will be judged in The Hague, everywhere, for doing so, and we will never, ever stop saying these things.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0516par0850	You're the ones who haven't changed.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0514par0851	Shut up Mehmet Metiner, your role in this story is clear, your place is clear, don't push your luck.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0516par0852	You're the owner of everything.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0517par0853	Say something to Kandil.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0514par0854	Your place is in this story. It's obvious what you've left in the past your whole life.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0516par0855	You're the owner of everything.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0514par0856	You're in the story.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0518par0857	Mr. Heroalp, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0519par0858	Say something to Kandil.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0514par0859	Don't push your luck.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0518par0860	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0514par0861	Don't push your luck, don't push your luck.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0520par0862	You're the owner of everything.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0514par0863	You can't talk to death.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0520par0864	You're the ones who haven't changed.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0514par0865	Especially you, Metiner.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0520par0866	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0514par0867	Especially you, you don't talk, you don't talk, you don't belong in this story.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0521par0868	Congressman...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0520par0869	Do not speak for the Kurds.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0514par0870	So I wouldn't push my luck if I were you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0522par0871	Who are you threatening?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0520par0872	Come on, don't speak for the Kurds.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0522par0873	Speak to the PKK. Who are you threatening?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0523par0874	Don't push your luck. I don't recommend it. You shut up!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0524par0875	Mr. Heroalp...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0522par0876	You can't call me "suss. "
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0523par0877	I'm not talking to you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0522par0878	I'm a congressman, you can't talk like that.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0523par0879	I'm here to give my opinion.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0522par0880	You don't have the courage to speak to the PKK.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0523par0881	I'm talking, I'm trying to stop killing, I'm not looking at death through politics like the rest of you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit09spe0525par0882	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit10spe0525par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 29th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the talks of Bill 405. The commission is here. The government is here. The motion on Article 62 was kept in motion. I submit to your votes the motion of Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp and his friends: those who agree... those who refuse... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 62 of Law Bill 405 be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends MADDE 62:- Students who were subjected to internship and technical secondary education during their studies and technical education, while "students who were subjected to internship and technical secondary education" (b) under the first joke of Article 5 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510 (b) and under the term "students who were subjected to education or training during higher education or higher education" were changed at the end of the joke. "Students who have been subjected to internship and internships under Article 41 of this Law can be borrowed by the 5/6/1986 and in vocational education code 3308 when they are in vocational upper secondary schools or during their higher education. In the event of debt, the date of which apprenticeship and internship began is based on the start date of insurance." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit10spe0526par0016	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit10spe0525par0017	I'm reading the reason on the motion: Employees as apprentices or interns are considered insured according to the Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act, as well as the date of the period-insurance period when you start working as an apprentice or intern. However, these rights are limited only to short-term insurance arms. This leads to inequality and therefore to victimization. In practice, it can be borrowed for some periods, such as birth, military service, monthly leave, doctorate or expertise, the practice of law enforcement. In addition, those who give birth after the start of a vocational upper secondary school internship or apprentice insurance are able to borrow and advance pensions if they want to. The principle of equality of the Constitution should also be given the right to borrow on an actual study and training period based on insurance to ensure justice in practice, and should be based on the start date of long-term insurance policies. In addition to resolving the victim's injury, it is estimated that loans will be granted for the duration of training as apprentices or interns and that the start-up date of insurance will also be applied as an apprentice or as a date for starting the internship. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the statement of the National Ministry of Education, which is in Article 62 of the Law on Organizations and Jobs of the 405, be changed to the terms of the terms of the declaration. Haluk Pekşen (Trabzon) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit10spe0527par0030	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit10spe0525par0031	Congressman Haluk Pekşen on the motion.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit10spe0528par0033	Mr. President, respected lawmakers, none of the people living in the Middle Ages were aware that their age would be called the Middle Ages in the future. It's just that in the 21st century, the issues we've discussed, the issues we've discussed, unfortunately, are the issues that the civilized world has discussed and resolved in the Middle Ages. What are we talking about? Look at what we discussed in the 21st century. We've put aside concepts such as science, science, intelligence, the rule of law, and now we're fighting for it, so how can we put our country back on this lane, this floor? Mr. Secretary, education is not based on ideology in any country in the world, but unfortunately in Turkey, according to the church, according to the student, according to the neighborhood, there is an ideology for everyone. Make sure that education is based on what ideology, even you don't know. Even between towns, there are differences in education. Even the principals of schools are trying to put their own ideology into our children's heads as an education, and you're not making any effort to take a step towards them, I'm afraid. The issues we're discussing, the issues that are already on the country's agenda, they reveal that. Look, from 1215 Magna Carta, the biggest challenge in the world is between law and power. It's intended to establish a law order that balances power. Unfortunately, Turkey is still not in the legal order obtained even at 1215 Magna Carta. Today you condemn people by law, and for the first time in the world, we live in a time when people are condemned by law, not judged, but judged. Could such a period be a period of modern, civilized rule of law? What do you call that? When you bring together the issues discussed in our country and the issues spoken in the civilized world, all of us, all of us in this parliament, I assure you, will blush. Now, what is the world talking about? He talks to a conductor called Grafen; he talks to a conductor 200 times stronger than steel, a million times thinner than human hair, generates electricity, generates heat; he talks to gene maps; he talks to the Higgs boson; the world talks to drones, talks to drone trucks, talks to drones, talks to drones, talks to drones. And what are we talking about? We're talking about our burning children in Aladağ. We're talking about how to cover up the rape. We can get these criminals out of there. It's embarrassing. Look, if you want me to give you an example of yourself: you did serious work in your time of power until 2007, then you said, "The rule of law, forward democracy, more freedom," and they gave you more applause from all over the world than maybe you deserved, but what happened? After 2007, you abandoned all this. You started to lose along with those you left. I assure you, after you got the power, you thought you were winning big, but you lost big. You've lost big, you've cost us big. Not only did you lose, we all lost, we still continue to lose very seriously. I assure you, if you don't stop this loss today, the consequences will be much more severe and dramatic. Now, look, if you look at where Turkey is coming from, if you put a balance sheet in front of you, there are casualties in Turkey's geography, there are casualties in the islands, borders across the inn, there are legal losses, there are security losses, we're losing everywhere. Why? Because unfortunately, you turned your back on the law, you turned your back on democracy, you turned your back on human rights, and you don't think any of what you do will be put in front of you. It's not like that. Rest assured, look, all of this will come at a very high price. There's never been a power in the world that can get off the table without paying the bill. I'm from the Black Sea, so I'd like to say goodbye to you with a basic joke. I want to be rich, I want to be very rich, I want a book. The bookstore brought two books. The foundation said: I wanted one. Why did you bring two? He said: "Don't you want to be rich?" Yes, I want to be rich. My advice to you: you are now in the second book. I'll make sure of it. Get ready for it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit10spe0529par0042	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit10spe0530par0043	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit10spe0529par0044	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0529par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough during the vote of Libzon MP Haluk Pekşen and his friends, issued on Article 62 of Law Bill 405. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there is a sufficient number of decisions, the motion is not accepted. We'll resume the talks of Bill 405. The commission is here. The government is here. Now, I submit item 62 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Congressmans, there is a request in accordance with Article 89 of the Civil Code for the renegotiation of Article 37 of the government's proposed legislation: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose renegotiation under Article 89 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in order to reorganise Article 37 of Law Bill 405 which is currently being held. Yours truly. The presidency will comply with the government's request after the Council of Counsellor's opinion has been received. It's for your information. There are three separate motions on Article 63: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article of Article 63 of Law Bill 405, which is currently in session, be replaced in the following form. Garo Paylan Sibel Yiğitalp Adem Gaveri Berdan Özturk Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Erdal Atash Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the amendment of Article 63 of the National Education Ministry, which is currently in session, in the following way, to Article 63 of the Bill of Law on Organizations and Missions of the Ministry of Education. The first joke (f) of Article 6 of Article 63-5510 (MADDE 63-5510) has been removed from the text of the article. Metin Lütfi Baydar Baydar Ömer Fethi Gürer Ceyhun İrgil Atila Sertel Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Murat Emir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 63 of the main Law Bill (1/711) and other substances from the draft text. Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0531par0039	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0529par0040	İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem on the motion.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0532par0042	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 63 of the National Movement Party's Party on the Amendment to the Law and Laws of the Ministry of Education of 405, and on Article 63 of the Law. I salute the Veteran Assembly. The people of St. Turk have surely accepted a minister's word as collateral, and I have received a special message saying, "Please take the good news from our minister on this matter, this time take it off the stand." He's probably coming to you. Mr. Secretary, you have specifically promised as a lawyer that the Court of State decision of 1,709 branch managers will be carried out under the roof of this Veteran Assembly. I want to give our people good news of the fulfillment of that promise. At this point, I'd like an answer. Thank you. Young people, young people, young people... in particular, I'd like to repeat from here what our young people read. We have two years of schools we call pre-license. These schools, you might be surprised, but they contain very interesting chapters: emergency and disaster management, alternative energy sources technology, beekeeping, lacery, information management, information management, biochemistry, tea agriculture and processing technology, environmental protection and child protection and care services, meat and products, food apps, food quality control, map kadastro, animal production, business health and safety, dried production and technology, plant and technology, laborant and veterinarians, food and vegetable processing technology, meat and food and products, food quality control, food quality control, map kadastro, animal production, business health and safety, food production and safety, and technology, as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well, well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well, Yes, I realize you've only just heard a lot of episodes. However, to contribute to our country's economy, the creation of national projects, which will serve agriculture, agriculture, animalism, especially in these national projects. Then we can get out of the country that imports, produce our own products, solve the unemployment problem of these young people, and work on exports, friends. What is meant to be done in this sense is especially to produce projects first and provide employment for our brothers who have graduated from here. So far, we have 8,000 young people who have graduated from real estate and real estate, 7,000 who have graduated from medical secretary. Of the 8,000 brothers who graduated from the real estate administration, only 800 have settled in, and 700 have settled in from the medical secretary's office, so that's one of them now. What we have to do here... is, of course, these episodes are very valuable, and our young people prefer these episodes with a very special future planned. But a little bit more, it's a good idea to weigh in on national projects to ensure the employment of the graduates of these departments. The unemployment of the young population, their despair, the dimming of the light in their eyes, the anxiety of the future must affect all of us deeply. Dear lawmakers, come, let us restore the hope of our young brothers. Let's give good news to our friends who come to our door every day. Let's tell them they'll get jobs after they graduate, and they'll get what they deserve in return for this job. Let's make laws for it, make arrangements for it. In that sense, Turkey expects support from its elders, who represent themselves in the Grand National Assembly, awaiting a solution. I've brought it up from here, and I'm handing it over to your conscience. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0533par0052	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the amendment of Article 63 of the National Education Ministry, which is currently in session, in the following way, to Article 63 of the Bill of Law on Organizations and Missions of the Ministry of Education. The first joke (f) of Article 6 of Law 63 - 5510 was removed from the text of matter. Metin Lütfi Baydar (Adün) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0534par0062	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0533par0063	Are we reading the motive, Mr. Irgil?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0535par0064	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0533par0065	I'm reading the reason: It is also intended to include insurance for students who work in practical production and production during normal training periods in higher schools. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article of Article 63 of Law Bill 405, which is currently in session, be replaced in the following form. Garo Paylan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0536par0076	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0533par0077	İstanbul MP Erdal Atash will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0537par0078	Mr. President, not one of the regulations made in this area, as well as in other areas, does not really provide a solution, since all these issues, including education, are not considered equally fundamentally in the Constitution, which is a common contract for resolving fundamental problems in our country. In the Constitution, there are inequalities in the constitution, and it appears that the expression that education in the native language is still significantly banned, that discrimination towards beliefs remains, that social wealth is not seen as the wealth of this country, but is actually addressed only by avoiding this issue. Today, there is also a process of debate over the restoration of the Constitution, which has been re-examined. But unfortunately, with the same understanding, the same mentality, the same approach, these issues are being resolved. Notice that in our country, every ten years, the process of making a coup and a new constitution is brought up. There's got to be a reason. So either the lawyers are dealing with this matter like this, temporarily, daily, or we don't know... so there's a problem. But I believe in internationally, in these conditions where technique is so advanced, in the fundamental concepts of law across the world, in all these concepts for human rights -- all over the world -- the same things are being discussed in our country. Tens of thousands of legalists are aware of this issue, but despite the fact that every decade, every decade, every 1960, 1970, 1980, 1990, and extraordinary circumstances, coup attempts, we will make new constitutions. Despite the fact that these issues have been brought up, unfortunately, with the same mind, the beliefs of this country have been reduced to one another by the same mental state for over 90 or more years, separates between the languages of this country, and in this country there are intense attacks on politicians, opposition, and at the same stage, the same level of opposition has been introduced on the day. Notice, in 1960, in 1970, in 1980, what methods, what understanding, what mentality, what philosophy is the same today. The columnists, a lot of intellectuals, are arguing: "What is there in the new constitution?" What's the same, what's the same, what's today? Because, what's going to happen, is there any discussion that says that all languages in this country are the richness of this geography, that everyone is obliged to protect it. Is there a clause in this country? No. The general understanding is clear, the approaches are the same, the same segregation of the Constitution of September 12th, where the fascist constitution is somehow re-organised with the presidency. If its contents are not changed, whether it is in a parliamentary form or whether it is applied in different ways around the world, none of these forms will provide solutions. Look, it's the same M.O. today. In democratic politics, people who represent a part of this country, who want equality, freedom in this country have been put in jail, newspapers have been silenced, intellectuals have been punished, all opposition is being tried to intimidate, and a constitution is being made in the same way. So he did 1960, he did 1970, he did 1980, he did 1990s and 1990s, all of these have been tried, so even though all of these people here have been discussing the issue and saying that this method has collapsed, again, the same approach is being brought up. Clearly, there are those who have survived the conflict of society, this policy, which has been carried out in some way over the rights of this country, and this policy of living is also a problem for the people today. But the 1960s, the 1970s, the 1980s, the 1980s, the same way that all of those constitutions -- including the previous ones -- collapsed, just as we say they're now all saying that they're useless -- will collapse much earlier because the solution is to build a constitution based on the full equality of human rights declarations that have only been adopted internationally. The deputy from the MP says that there is no official language in the United States. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's something multilingual in the world in 113 countries that the United Nations considers a member. Of course a language can be used to make official transactions, but you have to have all the languages. If we don't step forward with his contacts to resolve this matter, we'll continue to discuss it in a year. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0538par0086	Thank you, Mr. Paperman.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0539par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0538par0088	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0539par0089	Since he's giving references, it's not a tease, but I could use an explanation.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0538par0090	All right, here, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0539par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Speaker, pointing at me, there's no official language in America. He couldn't put it together, but what I was trying to say from the podium was that in many countries of the world, despite its ethnic diversity, there is a language of education as a common denominator. In the United States of America, even though it's a very large group of Hispanic origins, the language of education is usually English in universities, schools, and we say that even when we go there for education, we have to follow those conditions. That's not what I meant, or I didn't mean that there were no other ethnic languages or other languages. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0540par0096	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Members of the law, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 63 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three separate motions on Article 64: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the statement of the National Ministry of Education, which is listed in Article 64 of the Law on the Offices of the Agency, be changed to the terms of the terms of the declaration. Metin Lütfi Baydar Ceyhun İrgil Mustafa Ali Balbay Haydar Akar Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Ömer Fethi Gürer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 64 of the Law Bill 405 be removed from the text of the Article or the article of the Completory Education, which is part of Article 64. Garo Paylan Sibel Yiğitalp Adem Gaveri Berdan Özturk Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Lezgin Botan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the main number-one Bill of Law (1/711) of Article 64 of the Charter be removed from the draft text and other substances identified. Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Desire Virtue Fahrettin Oğuz Tor of Deniz Depboy Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0541par0124	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0540par0125	Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, MP of Kahramanmarash on the motion.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0542par0127	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 64 of Bill 405. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. The draft shall be replaced with the first joke of Article 55510 (a) of Article 64 (a) of the Law on the basis of education and technical education, complementary education or field education during vocational and technical secondary education. The term is also to be redesigned in line with the prevalence of education according to the terms of the day. It's a technical arrangement, it's positive. Dear lawmakers, today is one of the greatest needs of our country's industry. The industrialist's whining is that he can't find a breaker. A historical record-breaking unemployment with 11.3% on one hand, an industrialist who complains that he can't find interpersonal employees. Most importantly, perhaps the most important reason for this challenge is that technical and professional education is not given. You can also give a history range here, and you can explain the progress in vocational and technical education, but the result is obvious; the industrialist can't find interpersonal staff. I wish you could help us solve our country's problems with the theory and practice of vocational and technical education instead of opening a university without finding enough faculty. I think it would benefit as an incentive to have the start of an internship in vocational and technical education as a long-term insurance arm, which is the beginning of retirement. By the way, more important than physical developments, legal regulations, is whether the work is given to the proper, whether our teacher is happy or not. No matter how thinly you say we've increased our teacher's real income, our teacher doesn't live in the Middle East or Africa. The sad truth is that today our teacher owes a great deal of money, nearly half of whom are getting help. The increasing number of teachers does not make the teacher peaceful. What will make the teacher peaceful is to be rewarded for his hard work, for justice and justice. Today, one of the two teachers is not sure of tomorrow. How can we expect to achieve the goals of national education from a community that is largely uncertain about tomorrow? Dear MPs, teaching you what you know, teaching you how to show you love and compassion is the most beautiful of virtues, the most glorious. All of our teachers have the right to pay for it, and it is not easy or possible. It is our duty to listen to our teachers, to address their problems, to pull them out of the social, economic, and professional straits they fall into. If the teacher is not happy, the student is desperate, the parents are restless. If the teacher is frustrated and tired, his education and teaching life are half and wounded. In today's country painting, no one will be able to claim that our teacher is happy and satisfied. More than 30,000 teachers have been removed from the office so far, and the number of teachers has reached 17,000. How can we expect a teacher to be happy in such a picture? Whether it's in the Ministry of National Education or in other ministries, discrimination is very wrong, plain and simple. Those who act like this have no place to sleep. Mr. Secretary, please look for ways to get the teacher behind you. Dear lawmakers, the popularity of subsidisation in the purchases of teachers, the step forward of those who are torpedoed, will weaken national education altogether. We expect contractual and temporary teachers to be transferred to permanent staffs, to resolve problems related to the appointment of apology groups, to increase education and tuition compensation for additional tuition fees, to increase education allowance, to be added to 3600 indicators, to be carried out according to the merits and achievement criteria of the promotional system. I'd like to bring something to your attention here in particular. Between 1965 and 1969, Mahmoud Bozdoğan, who served as MP for Adana during the 13th term, returned to teaching in 1970 and began teaching at the School of the School of the School of the School of Straight Teachers. In the return of Mr. Mahmut, whom I ask for God's mercy, his love for his profession also played an important role in the reputation of the profession as a teacher doing his duty in love and excitement. I wish to return your teaching profession to its former glory, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0543par0141	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 64 of the Law Bill 405 be removed from the text of the Article or the article of the Completory Education, which is part of Article 64. Lezgin Botan (Van) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0544par0150	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0543par0151	Van MP Lezgin Botan on the motion.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0545par0153	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this time of night, maybe we won't be able to make our voices heard, but I'm bound to have this conversation. A parliament bombed on July 15th, immediately after which a parliament was declared lawless, null and unauthorized, a parliamentary reality in which MPs were arrested in the 4 November political coup. In accordance with the honor of this House and the power of attorney of 80 million people, our friends, co-Chairs must be released immediately. To the people who received the power of 6 million people, after the coup that took place on July 15th, the biggest blow to lawmakers was to destroy the House's reputation by making the ruling party, and to take over the power of power over 6 million people. In this regard, I salute our co-Chairs here for paying the price for democracy, equality, freedom and labour, the honorable life of the peoples of Asia Minor, Mesopotamian, life together, brotherly life. History will write it down. Another issue: power, indeed, based on the power of the majority, has officially mediated the judiciary, to consolidate its own hegemony, to dictate its own agenda to this community. Our discussion of the independence of the judiciary is no longer worthwhile here, but we would like to remind you: Do not surrender to your anger, do not surrender to your hatred. Anger and hatred are man's greatest enemies. I'd like to say a few words about something else. Now, every once in a while, there are some discussions about Kurdish going on here. We have no problem with our common language being Turkish and official language, but our native language is Kurdish. The strongest bond of a person's sense of belonging is his own language. Maybe there are philologists here, you have linguists -- there are criteria, my friends. If you're so curious, learn the language and culture of the people you've called brothers and sisters for a thousand years. Now, we've been brothers and sisters for a thousand years, we've lived together, we've given up girls, but if you still don't know Kurds, if you don't know their language, then there's nothing more to say. See, if a language is an independent language, the universal scale of philologists would say that they are unique pronouns, color names, names of animals, names of human organs, number names, et cetera. In this regard, let those who are curious consider it among the world's top 10 languages in Kurdish. The AKP says it's done a lot, but the first thing the trustees did now is they've wiped out all the Kurdish stuff as soon as they got to work. With the KHK, you have now shut down KUDİ-DDER, closed Kurdish courses, closed Kurdish TVs, closed Kurdish magazines, closed newspapers. Why did you do all this? The AKP rewinded. It has nothing to do with terrorism. Kurdish is a 20,000-year-old language. You can't just label it like that with terror and a donkey and get out of it. You've become increasingly authoritarian, increasingly threatening Turkey's inner peace, Turkey's inner peace. Therefore, let those who are concerned about the Constitution of France look now. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We set many examples of France. When you look at the Constitution of France, when you look at many countries next to you, multilingualism is now a measure of social development, not division. On the contrary, denial, denial, humiliation, exclusion, and ignoring are the greatest of separatisms. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0546par0164	Thank you, Mr. Botan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the statement of the National Ministry of Education, which is listed in Article 64 of the Law on the Offices of the Agency, be changed to the terms of the terms of the declaration. Omar Fethi Gürer (Niğde) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0547par0173	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0546par0174	Nüğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer on the motion.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0548par0176	Mr. President, valued lawmakers are an important problem in our professional high school education system that turns into a wound. In our country, it's a fact that we expect to raise intermediaries in our social development in these schools. In countries with advanced education, accession to vocational upper secondary schools is around 65 per cent and in our country around 35 per cent. A significant loss of employment is caused by not raising qualified intermediaries to industrial institutions. In contrast, our post-college unemployment is a major concern for our young people and our families. The share of vocational upper secondary schools and vocational institutes is undisputed when our industry finds its necessary workforce. As a state policy, young people should be charged with encouraging vocational upper secondary schools because vocational high school is a matter of home. In our country, which has been unemployed for 15 million years, the problem of raising our young to make, create, and produce must be turned into reality. Today's developed countries have entered a rapid process of becoming a post-industrial knowledge society. They have achieved this process by raising young people who are qualified and productive in education. Advanced countries have appreciated the value of knowledge and quality of the most important value of society. We should not view the concept of knowledge as memorizing education; we should also care about the education that developed, knowledgeable, and qualified young people will grow. In order for our country to compete with other countries, we need qualified young and dynamic manpower. According to Copenhagen Criters, the development of skill among young countries is measured. The difference is that between vocational upper secondary schools of the country's youth, credit transfers, certification measurements for support for education and education. The recovery of our education from the fragmented structure is inevitable, and it is necessary to restructure the productive structure based on locality. A vocational high school should be organised by targeting art and aesthetic sensibility, given the regional needs of our upper secondary schools. In vocational training, theoretical and practical training and practice must be restructured at work. Industrial vocational education must be co-operated with vocational upper secondary schools. I'm a professional high school student, I'm confident. The expression should be popularized. The formation of these institutions should be free of shape, equipped for practical training. These institutions will be sets of stances against unemployment. Today's vocational upper secondary schools are conflicted with the sizes of study, practice, study and skill development. In its context, it is equipped with theoretical information and often trained in memorised Imam orip schools that provide education in the fields. All other vocational upper secondary schools are institutions that can contribute as intermediaries to the development of the country's economy. In these institutions, as well as theoretical information, the use of practical applications, research and production to improve our industry in the field of profession should be increased. It must be remembered that all young people are the future of our nation. It must be our basic duty to give them the right to behave against production. The chaos in our vocational high schools must be resolved. Internal and functional institutions must be separated. More support should be provided for vocational upper secondary schools based on work and production. Let us take advantage of all the world's science, inventions, and advancements as we show the way that Ataturk will go to this nation. Let us not forget, however, that we must remove the original foundation from within ourselves. You have to say new things and think about it instead of the set in front of vocational technical high schools. Education, which is the form of thought by action, aims to raise the ideal person of the future. The main factor in our young people's choice of professions should be talent, interest, and multi-directional analysis. In today's IT age, individuals... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the need to support vocational upper secondary schools and universities of applied sciences, where they can develop skills and skills. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0549par0185	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 64th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two separate motions on Article 65, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the statement of the National Ministry of Education, which is listed in Article 65 of the Law on the Offices and Offices of the National Education Ministry, be replaced as. Ceyhun İrgil Bkent Yener Bektasoğlu Haydar Akar Bursa GiresunYepele Metin Metin Bayda Baydar Mustafa Ali Balbay Bkent Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 65 of the Law Bill 405 be removed from the draft text. Garo Paylan Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Berdan Ozturk Adem Gaveri Mizgin Irgat Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0550par0202	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0549par0203	Mr. Mizgin Irgat of Bitlis will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0551par0205	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, in fact, a few of the very important issues that I wanted to bring up tonight were the issues of trustees and judicial decrees that were described in the faculty as a very high-profile issue. The issue of trustees, described in textbooks as a subject that should only be studied as a lesson, has become the most popular profession of our time. In fact, it's not supposed to be called a profession; it's more accurate if we call it officers who come to our municipalities, to our institutions that we've earned with our own hard work, in the way of extortion, in the way of appointment. The other issue is the matter of judicial decrees. What we are talking about there is Turkey's extraordinary state of mind that only at a certain point in the history of Turkey's political history has been praised and praised for its extraordinary state of mind, and in a textbook, we are discussing the system of state that has actually become a part of our lives, which has shaken our agenda today when it was just a subject that needed to be tested. While these systems are being discussed, extraordinary detentions, arrests for our party, the fact that our president is in prison, our group's president, our friends, and our countless co-hosts, our parliamentary members, our party staff, are now in prisons instead of their own activities. Appointing trustees, I think, is a system that AKP finds very comfortable, as a cheap way of assigning. There's a certain cost in the election, time leaves, but the trustees, the officers who were assigned to a building in one night, with just a decree, go out and start on one night and one Sunday in the seats of our elected co-chairs. My choice is Bitlis in Bitlis, and Bitlis in one day, and earlier with the bowing and the Norschin... which means that the DBP municipality, which has been successfully elected in our town of Norschin, who has been forced to run for election twice, has, unfortunately, been sent to prison in a way that I've just told him about... where our co-mayor and councilman were arrested and sent to prison. Hakeza is now in prison, unfortunately, our co-chair, vice presidents, who are in charge of the Democratic Party of Peoples' Democratic Party. So, the AKP, which has become a republic of fear, has been declared a state of emergency in Turkey, and the only thing that has been implemented, is to target its supporters, loved ones, partisans and employees, who it considers to be a threat to its power, to its opposition. Thus, it serves a single purpose when we look at studies of national education, which is an ideological field, and all of the work that is done next to it: it is the goal of Turkey to become stronger, to strengthen power as it moves towards AKP power in its unjust, illegal way, to build these stones, to bring peoples, Turkish peoples to their will, to kill the opposition. But we, and our grandfathers from the history of coups, know this very well, from the Yusuf Ziya Pashas, from the Diyap Aghas, from the Orhan Doğans, from Leyla Zana, from Demirtaş, from the Balakens, from all our friends, that this fight is not a fight to destroy, from denying, because it is a struggle to express the truth of a people, the truth of Turkey, the right, law, democracy, and peace. Therefore, I say the price for this is sacred, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0552par0212	Thank you, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0553par0213	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0552par0214	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0553par0215	Our intention to kill democracy is that we have never, ever, ever, ever thought about it. The Republic of Turkey is a country that lives in democracy, goes to elections according to democratic rules, and is ruled by these election results. For many more years, I say that democracy will strengthen and the state of the Republic of Turkey will go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0552par0216	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the statement of the National Ministry of Education, which is listed in Article 65 of the Law on the Offices and Offices of the National Education Ministry, be replaced as. Bulent Öz (Chanakkale) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0554par0223	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0552par0224	Minister of Çanakkale on the motion, Mr. Bulent Öz.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0555par0226	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the matter on behalf of my group, and I salute you all. Yesterday in Adana, when our young gave each one of their lives, all of Turkey died, one by one, 78 million because they were children, they died to study because they were pushed into the arms of the congregations because they couldn't find shelter in the state. These children were entrusted to the government, these children were entrusted to you. You delivered the trust to the congregations. You have not taken possession of the trust in Konya, Diyarbakır, and Adana today; you do not pay the price for not keeping it. Our children are burning, thirsty; raped, thirsty; tortured, silent again; you cannot see, hear, or speak. One day it will turn around, and the coals that burn our daughters will rain on you, sirs. In spite of the ban on first-school students to open their homes, who allowed them to live in this home? The dorms must be controlled by the government, not by other hands. How many more July 15ths do we have to live so you can come to your senses? Do we always wait for a plague to tell the congregations to stop? While the government is still searching for answers to these questions, the government has not learned a lesson. Why do you bring a gag order after every incident, what are you hiding? The sun shall not be covered with clay, nor shall any answer cover these abominations; nor shall our people believe that the investigations shall be carried out with courage. The Turkish nation expects you to bring justice to the end of these disasters. Dear lawmakers, in the time of your governments, you have eliminated the quality of national education as public and traded education. You've built a high-quality, scientific-educated structure with money. From KPS, 80 points are appointed teachers, not teachers with 90 points, but teachers with pull. And you screwed up admin. You're opening exams, you're not taking 95, you're taking 100, you're making teachers who belong to your yellow union, you're making managers or assistant managers. Twenty-five-year-old teacher can't come to the station, so you make 25-year-old teacher manager and pull him into the center. Even the devil's unimaginable methods have come to life in your timeline. The result is failure in education, collapse in education. Prepare the children of the nation for life, dear lawmakers, precious power. Education used to be an instrument for poor Anatolian children in this country to be part of life, to hold on to life. If you continue with these policies, by the end of the decade, you'll be raising hundreds of thousands of unemployed. In primary schools, teachers of religious culture and English should also be allowed to participate in courses such as visual arts and music. With this bill, you will encourage child labor, so please stop it. You turned Çanakkale Rainbow College into an imam-hatred high school without a student request. 110 Imam-Hakip students on three floors of the school are educated, while 750 elementary school students are studying on two floors of the same building, which is the case now. Should I talk about two bathrooms on the floor where the elementary school kids are, or should I talk about the fact that 750 elementary school students are trained in the same building as 110 teenage imam students? What was your basic reason for bringing in 4+4+4? You said it was pedagogically inappropriate for a 7-year-old boy and a 14-year-old boy to study in the same building. What changed now that you forced these kids into the same building? Stop trying to impose your own spirit world, your way of life on everyone. Dear MPs, the republic is all ours. You've been in power for 14 years thanks to the Republic. Stop playing with people's DNA. And give up the dream of a presidential system that doesn't suit the genetics of this society. Finally, friends, I'd like to thank Mr. Cakir for a conscientious voice in your heart. Forgive us, and give us your blessing, after the terrible incident in Adana yesterday. Forgive us that we have not done what we must, nor have we done what we have done, for we have not been able to maintain your rights over us. I hope the entire AKP Group listens to this conscientious voice. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0556par0238	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 66: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 66 of Law Bill 405, which is being discussed in the following way. İlknur İncesik Ramazan Can Ahmet Sami Ceylan Isaac Gazel Osman Your love Bak Halil Erdemir "The fourth sentence of Article 81 of Law 66-5510 has been added to the first sentence of "This bent provisions," which "except for those employed by the institutes of higher education and by the school-family association" following the declaration." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "united" declaration of the 405-line bill shall be changed "by their union" in Article 66. Garo Paylan Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0557par0260	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0556par0261	İstanbul MP Garo Paylan on the motion.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0558par0263	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Mr. President, I'm afraid I have to speak in a Parliament where our esteemed MPs, co-chairs, Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yükseldağ, Group Deputy Chair İdris Baluken, and seven of our fellow MPs, are being held captive. A friend of our AKP Group told us in the morning that the independent judiciary had arrested them. We all laughed, including him, the whole AKP Group laughed, and I looked at all of you because he didn't believe what he was saying. We have no independent judgment, and we never have. It's not special for your time.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0559par0266	There's no such thing. You may have laughed, but this place didn't.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0558par0267	We've never had an independent judgment. I mean, in the history of the Republic, we've never had an independent judiciary, it's always been the law of the strong, it's always been the law of power.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0560par0268	You're always the enemy of this republic! Where is all this hostility coming from?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0558par0269	Whoever was strong, his law was enforced. In the early days of the AKP, remove the immunity. When it was suppressed, then the judgment was in the hands of another guardian, I was not so foolish as to entrust myself to a political and political judgment, he said over and over again.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0561par0270	You petitioned yourself, petitioned on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0558par0271	Many of the AKP's group expressed that.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0561par0272	Kof, you've been a bully. Why are you doing this now? You filed the petition yourself.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0558par0273	Look, in four different cities, that night, on the night of the November 4 coup, I'm going to say, in four different cities, the Attorney General of the Republic simultaneously -- whatever it is, the revelation came to them -- they pressed the button simultaneously at one o'clock in the night. And then you're going to tell us... that we think there's no mechanism in Turkey that's going to coordinate these things, constitutionally. How do you sign an operation in four different cities at the same time, at one o'clock, at the same time, at the same time, at one o'clock at night, to capture our fellow lawmakers, our co-chairs? Let's question it together. How can there be four different republican prosecutors? I'll tell you how it happened:
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0562par0274	He was born into them.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0558par0275	Yeah, they could have been born in them or...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0563par0276	By texting from By Lock...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0558par0277	On the day before November 4th, on November 3rd, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan held a meeting with Mr. Bahçli.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0563par0278	He's written by the Lock.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0558par0280	That's quite a coincidence, isn't it? That day, on the day of the operation, he held a meeting. At that meeting, it's possible that he told his new coalition partner about his operation that night, took their consent and pressed the button. He probably passed the order through Bekir Bozdağ to the Attorney Generals of the Republic and pressed the button at 1:00 a.m. Ten of our fellow lawmakers were taken prisoner, including our co-chairs. Is that an independent judgment? Ask yourself. You can apply this law to us today, you can overlook it, but remember, folks, today is for us, tomorrow is for you. Let's look at our recent history: Abdulhamit thought that he would always have his own when he set his end of the bargain. Yeah, he's been on the job for a long time, but eventually he's been relieved of duty by a revolution or a coup.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0564par0282	He's quitting.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0558par0283	After that, the pushers thought it was up to us, and that's the way it's gonna go, and that's not the way it's gonna be judged by the pushers. After the republic was established, there was no pluralist democracy, in the territorial courts -- you know, all separate sociology -- there was a lot of lawlessness, and they thought it would go on like this. No, he didn't.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0565par0284	So, in short...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0558par0285	Adnan thought that the will to hang Menderes would always remain there. September 12th law was thought to last a thousand years. The 28th Februaryers said it would go on for a thousand years. This ain't gonna last, fellas.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0565par0286	Do you or do you not support the PKK?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0558par0287	Look, you've entrusted the congregation with judgment, and you think we're in charge now. Turns out you didn't have it, so he came to your door. Right or wrong, now you think it's your judgment, you think it's gonna last; it's not gonna last. It takes three months, and it takes three years, and it takes thirteen years, and then it's either you or your child. Come, turn this way from the thesis. This road is the dark road. Sooner or later, it's gonna turn around. Come on, turn around.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0566par0289	You probably won't see it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0558par0290	Neither will you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0567par0291	Thank you, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0568par0292	Mr. President, I'd like a word from my position.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0567par0293	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0568par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. Now...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0569par0298	What the hell is that? You probably won't see him. You know what he says?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0570par0299	I mean, can it be normal when you don't see it?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0569par0300	A congressman says you probably won't be able to see it in a council.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0571par0301	Congressmans, I promised Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0569par0302	Excuse me, excuse me.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0572par0303	Thank you, Mr. President. Speaking on the stand earlier, the speaker has made a very false reading of intentions and is a practice of fortune-telling, by linking Mr. President State Bahçli to the meeting of the President the day before the arrest of HDP MPs who have been arrested. In addition, our president, Mr. State Garden, has made a very clear statement to the public about this, against the media's speculative news. However, the opinion of Mr. President of the National Movement Party of State Bahçeli of the Constitution since this amendment has been publicly shared with the public. There is also no need for our Mr. President to meet with the President, or for the President to meet with our President. It's just a coincidence. It's humble. In that regard, we need to avoid such wrong assessments. We are brave with friendship and our hostility as Turkish nationalists and statesmen. So if that had happened, we would have made it very clear. That's out of the question. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0573par0306	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to replace Article 66 of the current 405 Orders of the Law. İlknur İnceöz (Aksaray) and his friends "The fourth sentence of Article 81 of Law 66-5510 has been added to the first sentence of "This bent provisions," which "except for those employed by the institutes of higher education and by the school-family association" following the declaration." Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0574par0319	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0575par0320	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0573par0321	I'm reading the reason: Since they are part of the second joke in Article 3035 of Law 5335, the foundation universities established by foundations under Law 2809, which cannot benefit employers from a five-point bonus reduction, are intended to benefit from this incentive. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There's a motion on the 67th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 67 of the Law Bill 405 be removed from the draft text. Garo Paylan Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Berdan Özturk Adem Gaveri Merkel Danış Beştaş Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0576par0336	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0573par0337	Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş, Adana MP on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0340	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, you continue to speak to us at this time of night, and you continue to pass the law you want with your majority.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0578par0341	That's what you call democracy, that's what parliamentaryism is; there's nothing you can do.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0342	We resist, you maintain your own majority dictator.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0578par0343	And you're the minority dictator...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0344	Let's never play democracy, ever. We can't hear any democracy this late at night.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0578par0345	You're doing it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0346	Just now, Mr. Group Vice President, as always, we are led by democracy, trying to expand our democracy. This country is a democratic country. It has vowed to lift even the crumbs of democracy in this country. Absolutely every day, every hour, every minute, every minute, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every Today, your Vice President Yasin Aktay said that, I mean, every day -- you say it's a lot -- but I say it's today -- that all the staffs of the AKP are actually behind Mr. President, even if not officially.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0579par0347	He's right.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0348	He is also in fact the President, despite the Constitution, is doing this job.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0579par0349	Why are you jealous?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0350	He's right, but it's illegal. It's a crime, it's a crime!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0579par0352	Work and you can have it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0353	It violates the oath in the Constitution. It can't be a parliamentary group. When it suits you, you can't say, "Gayrimşru, illegal, illegal, in fact, that's how I run the country."
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0580par0354	He's the leader of the people. He's Reisicumhur, our President.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0579par0355	We'll say it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0356	There's still a Constitution in this country. There's still law in this country.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0580par0357	He got 52 percent of the vote.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0358	When you guys got stuck, you learned to scream.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0580par0359	You were just talking about votes, you're not ashamed!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0360	Do you know what your Home Secretary Süleyman Soylu just recently said? He wrote to the governors, to the governor of 81 provinces, to the governors, to the governors, to the governors, to the governors, and to the governors, to note that the judgment was independent, and he said: "The joint office of the governorship is not in the law."
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0580par0361	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0581par0362	No, no, no.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0363	He instructed the governors to initiate administrative and criminal proceedings.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0580par0364	Way to go, Suleiman the Lion!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0365	Your Ministry of Internal Affairs will instruct the court to consider an application which is considered legitimate by more than 50 per cent of society, which prioritizes the equality of men and women.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0580par0366	It's a crime to take on public duty illegally.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0367	Your vice president will say that even though the president is not in the Constitution, he is actually our president. What the hell is going on? Is this the gang government?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0582par0368	No way!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0369	There's no law here? Don't democratic rules apply here?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0583par0370	Here, you're taking this job illegally.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0371	You will say you will change the Constitution, we will change it, you will arrest the leaders who will campaign to change the Constitution. You're going to declare a state of emergency. At least forbid giving no.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0584par0372	Don't deflect. Don't deflect.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0373	Say: "No one who opposes Recep Tayyip Erdogan's presidency in this country can speak, vote, go to the chest, or campaign."
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0585par0374	You're talking.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0586par0375	And you respect the presidency.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0376	That's what you're doing right now, because you don't trust your own power. You're talking nonsense, it's empty.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0587par0377	You're talking nonsense.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0378	Now I've given you two examples: a minister of interior and a vice president.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0588par0379	No more co-chairing.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0380	What the two of them are saying is 180 degrees opposite. One of them says: "We are applying philelene. The other, the co-chair is against the law." He instructs the governor.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0588par0381	What co-chair? Where's the co-chair? You're taking public office in an irregular manner, committing a crime.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0382	Okay, once, really, if you don't do anything, try to be objective for 30 seconds, 30 seconds. If we were in power now, if we sent Mr. Buli Yıldırım to prison...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0589par0384	God forbid.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0385	What would you do here if you sat here in the opposition and we imposed a new system on Turkey among a few people?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0590par0386	We're not trying to divide this country.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0591par0387	Why would you send Binali Yıldırım?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0388	Think about it, empathize for 30 seconds.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0591par0389	So you're gonna send him away because he's got his back on terrorist organizations?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0390	Then come back and give us a lesson in democracy. You know, democracy will come to this country in spite of you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0592par0391	You're the ones trying to divide the country.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0392	You're the one who divided this country.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0592par0393	Pass them, pass them.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0577par0394	You divide the representatives of a quarter of this country into prisons. You divide the Kurdish provinces by appointing one trustee at a time. Why is it that there are no trustees to Izzat, Antalya, Yozgat, and Yozgat? Didn't you have a single AKP municipality committed a crime? Is that a thing? Don't play democracy with us.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0593par0396	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0594par0397	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0593par0398	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0594par0399	Mr. President, from the beginning of his oratory speech to the end, he's been giving our group a hard time. As you can appreciate these taunts, I have to answer.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0593par0400	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0594par0404	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this is where we, the AK PARTY Group, express our full support for our President. Okay. (AK PARTY) Recep Tayyip Erdogan led the Justice and Development Party, entered, elected, and is now the head of our state as the candidate of this party. And we, as MPs of the Republic of Turkey, will always be with our President, who heads our state, let me tell you one more time.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0595par0406	Is he involved with your party? Is he having an affair with the party or not?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0594par0407	Dear MPs, this is not the idea of democracy, let's not let those who use these phrases come and tell us the stories of democracy: we know how to point those AKs at you. The democracy of AK is their precious lawmakers, their athletic democracy, that's their idea of democracy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, we stand by our President, and you, and who do you stand by?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0596par0410	We stand for the people, the people.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0594par0411	What's your connection to the KCK? What is your connection to the PKK? Didn't your co-chair say we had our backs up there?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0597par0412	No, it's a lie, it's a lie!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0594par0413	Which means you're holding your back to the ACK, the PKK, nowhere else.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0597par0414	You're lying, you're lying, you're lying!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0594par0415	Mr. Beştaş, what is your connection to the ACK? Tell me here what your connection is to the KCK.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0598par0416	You know, the one who cleans ISIS.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0594par0417	We will expand Turkey's democracy by fighting these structures.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0599par0418	You tell me your connection with ISIS, ISIS.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0594par0419	We'll raise it in spite of you, despite your understanding, we'll continue to grow it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0600par0421	For God's sake, stop growing democracy, you've ruined the country.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0594par0422	We also have to express that the law in this country is stronger than yesterday, the democracy will be stronger tomorrow, I assure you that there is no doubt about it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0601par0424	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0602par0425	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0601par0426	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0602par0427	Mr. Orator has obviously been taunting us with words that will accuse us of my words.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0601par0428	Here, you have my word for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0602par0430	Yeah, well, you've learned so much to deflect the truth that you've mastered it, congratulations. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I didn't tell you whether you were behind the president or not. I said, "What does the president actually have to do with your party?" Your vice president says that our relationship continues. Why don't you tell me about the rules you broke about the Constitution, and that's number one.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0603par0433	30 seconds of intimacy, what's your relationship with the ACK?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0602par0434	As you stand behind the President, we stand by him until the end of our co-captains, officially, if your relationship continues.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0604par0435	Tell me if you can call the PKK a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0602par0436	We're not gonna let you lock them up in a one-man cell in prison. We will continue to expose this mask of yours, your game of democracy, everywhere, on every floor. You know very well that we have nothing to do with the PKK, the ACK, or any other organization. Do you know that we rely on the public, the public, but your relationship with the ISIS terrorist organization, your contact, the trucks you've sent, the weapons you've been talking to all over the world?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0605par0438	We're running the biggest operation on ISIS.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0602par0439	The whole world is writing about it.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0605par0440	He can talk all he wants. The world applauds our struggle, applauds our struggle.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0602par0441	You're confessing to what you've done to this country with your Fetullahist terrorist organization, and we don't have to.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0606par0442	You do this propaganda, that's how it works.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0602par0443	He's the President you're behind, he's said it three times, four times: "What did you want? What didn't we give you?" He's made it clear to a terrorist organization in our eyes that he's made this country a go-between so far. If we were you, we'd go public and give you self-criticism, and we're sorry. You have a debt of self-criticism and apology to all the people of Turkey for putting us through July 15th.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0607par0444	You give self-criticism in Kandil.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0608par0445	You did it together on the 15th of July.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0602par0446	You can't keep playing democracy with this. The whole world sees your true face.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0607par0448	You give self-criticism in Kandil.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0609par0449	What do you know about democracy?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0610par0450	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0611par0452	Mr. President, the speaker insisted on taunting our group in his speech again.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0612par0453	He teased me, he teased me.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0613par0454	I made a fool of myself. Yes, yes, I did.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0614par0455	It suits you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0615par0456	Of course we'll answer you.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0616par0457	If you can give it to me, you can't give it to me.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0617par0458	You know, it's not like we should get too many castles, that's what they want.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0618par0459	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0619par0461	Dear MPs, of course we are the ruling party. Legislature is one of the most important activities of the House. But, dear friends, we have to express some issues here, we're not supposed to allow different perceptions to be created. We would love to see, of course, that there is a PKK terrorist organization that has been fighting the Republic of Turkey for 40 years. This terrorist organization is now under way more extensive operations, and hopefully, this structure will be completely removed from Turkey's agenda. Look, every time we hit the PKK, it comes out of here. Whenever an operation is launched against the PKK, the sound comes from here.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0620par0463	What's that got to do with anything? Shame, shame!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0619par0464	What's that noise? We hit the PKK, there's a noise coming from here.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0621par0465	Don't play the theatre. Is she having an affair with your party or not? That's the question.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0622par0466	The Constitution, that's what we're asking. If you can answer, give it to him.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0623par0467	Is there a constitution or not? Answer him.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0624par0468	Look, dear lawmakers, we have a real relationship with our President, of course; we go, we come to our President; we go, we see him. We care about the opinion of our President, we don't see any blame here, of course we have a real union.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0622par0469	Tell me about the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0624par0470	How... I mean, that's against the flow of nature. Are you with the president? Well, of course, we're the ruling party, we're the legislators, of course we'll meet our president, of course we'll evaluate his views.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0625par0471	Are you involved with parallelists?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0624par0472	Look, dear MPs, someone has recently been arrested in Istanbul, Sara Aktaş. Who is Sara Aktaş?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0626par0473	Come on, one more lie.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0627par0474	That's a lie! That's a lie!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0624par0475	KCK is in charge of Turkey. The TK co-chair was arrested in Istanbul. Mr. Beştaş, do you know Sara Aktaş?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0628par0477	Yes, we do.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0624par0478	KCK is the co-chair of Turkey. Let him answer.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0629par0480	Did you decide he was the co-chair?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0630par0481	You appointed him?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0631par0482	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0632par0483	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0631par0484	We want words from the bullying. Ahmet Yıldırım will speak. I mean, there's Sara Aktas, who's in charge of the women's association, who's in charge of making up crime, who's in charge of KJA, who's been making up crime, who's been shot at for 40 years, who's now being hit by the PKK, who's making up a statement like this.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0632par0486	Okay. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0633par0488	Ahmet Yıldırım, did you take the gun from a terrorist in the car and keep it? When that man is arrested, tell him you're a member of the organization, make a sound.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0634par0490	If your liar had a light bulb on his forehead, your party bulb would have exploded on your forehead.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0633par0492	Did you take that terrorist's gun and keep it in the back of the car? Sound off.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0634par0493	Look, I'll talk to the document, I'll talk to the law plane.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0633par0494	Sound off.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0634par0495	Anyone who doesn't bring a document from the prosecutor's office, from the judge, from the police department is a slanderer, a liar, as this Sergeant has been lying all morning. You're lying.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0633par0496	Ahmet Yıldırım, have you secured the terrorist's weapon in the car? Sound off.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0634par0497	Yeah, I'm telling you, you lie, and every time you're stuck, every time you can't answer the questions we're asking, you're ready to deflect. Look, what does the Constitution 101 say? The President of Turkey will be cut off from his party if he has any and his membership in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will be terminated. Is he or is he not sworn in or not? That's what we're asking. There's no need to move it. No need to lie. It's cheap politics.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0635par0498	Yeah, why are you yelling? I mean, why are you yelling?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0634par0499	For Sara Aktaş's sake, I'm telling you concretely: did Sara Aktas and the members of your party present at the meeting or not at the meeting of the Democratic Society Congress? How many TV shows has Sara Aktaş been on in the last month? He is the director of the Free Women's Association, which is based in Diyarbakır, abbreviated to KJA. Once it's in place, you can build a terrorist organization in your own way. If it were up to you, every building except the AKP is a terrorist, so much so that you have declared the Republic's newspaper a terrorist. Haven't you declared even the eighty-nine-year-old newspaper, Hikmet Çetinkaya, Kasdri Gürsel, Aydın Engin, a terrorist? To you, everyone is a terrorist but you. We're saying concrete things. Talk about your claims. Did the President swear on this pamphlet or not? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And your party spokesman says that he's still connected with our party. We're asking concrete questions, waiting for a concrete answer.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0636par0503	We have answered, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0637par0504	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 68: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 68 of Law Bill 405 be changed in the following way. İlknur İncesik Ramazan Can Ahmet Sami Ceylan Isaac Gazel Halil Eldemir Osman Look at your love "The following temporary clause has been added to Law 68-5510. "The incentives used by the institutes of higher education established by the Foundations and by the Article 81 of the Law (part) of the First Article of the Law (part of the Article 81) are considered to be used in accordance with the procedure." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The original and feral debts concerning the amount of incentives collected by the institution at the same time are returned within a month from the application of individuals who have paid their dues." We offer and offer to change it into form. Garo Paylan Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Berdan Özturk Adem Gaveri Ahmet Yıldırım Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the removal of Article 68 of Article 68 of the National Ministry of Education, which is currently in session, from the text of Article 68 of the Bill of Law on Organizations and Missions of the Ministry of Education. Ceyhun İrgil Gülay Spare Tulip Mahmut Tanal Engin Altay Metin Lütfi Baydar Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0638par0538	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0637par0539	Mr. Engin Altay, İstanbul MP on the motion.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0639par0541	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. We're negotiating a law. We have reservations. We said we'd fix it. No. We're trying to do our duty as opposition parties, we're expressing our reservations. However, Turkey suffered yesterday. I told you here yesterday. ▪ In such days, the maturity of Parliament reflects on society. We said, "Do not do this. It is a sin and a sin." I see the ruling party has changed its strategy as of today. Maybe, with all due respect, but I'm tired of listening, you're having a boat fight. I'll tell you, the HDP Group has a certain line of its own, and it's been there for a long time, and I won't say anything. Now... you can't say that. Come talk from here, brother. We've been saying that since the beginning, the PKK terrorist organization. He didn't say, he didn't say, I'm separating this now. From your point of view -- when I say "you" -- what is the PKK for the 58th, 59th, 60th, 61th, 62th, 63rd, 64th and 65th governments? Where is the government? Here. What is it? Let the government say, "The PKK was also a terrorist organization in the 58th government, and not a terrorist in the 65th government... not a terrorist, not a brother." Abdullah Ocalan... Abdullah Ocalan is coming for these governments. What is this inconsistency? The HDP-PK relationship... is an account that they will give to the nation. Well, we're telling you, the Justice and Development Party: you -- Mr. President told you, I said it a lot, all of our deputies said it -- these governments -- I thank you, lawmakers -- all members of this government that came out of you -- all members of this government, or part members of the PKK terrorist organization, DAEŞ, or ISIS -- and they aided and abetted the PKK terror organization. We've said it a thousand times, a thousand times. For this accusation against us...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0640par0547	You said it wrong.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0639par0548	Sir?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0640par0549	You said it wrong.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0639par0550	You're suing for all the wrong things. There's not a case against us that's been filed on these charges. I repeat: All government members have aided and aided and abetted the PKK terrorist organization, the PKK terror organization, and the ISIL terrorist organization, starting from the 58th government to the 65th government, I accuse them, I accuse them. (CHEERING) Sir, I've said this a hundred times. If this is wrong, a member of the government will come and sue.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0641par0552	Tell the prosecutors, the prosecutors!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0639par0553	Congressmans, I don't like this pollen, I've been patient all morning. Congressmans, there's blood, there's blood, there's tears, there's grief, there's death. This is Parliament, this is the solution. We've printed a brochure in the CHP: the AKP is aiding and abetting terrorism. Now, if the business is stubborn, I'll come and read it one by one in all the motions. Several members of the ruling party have a lot of praising words here, some ministers here, including Abdullah Ocalan, including the TK, including the PKK, documented.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0642par0555	Photos...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0639par0556	The photo doesn't matter. Now, lawmakers, mercy... sincerity... if you say so, sir, we wanted to solve this terror.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0643par0558	I don't think you understand that either.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0639par0559	If you say it in English, I'll understand.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0643par0560	Yeah, you don't understand...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0639par0561	From 1999, from Oslo to 2015 (x) to the table that was overturned in Dolmabahçe, in the context you claim, that HDP and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) had an organic, inorganic, inorganic -- two times that of which the governments had an organic, inorganic relationship with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0644par0564	Oh, come on, it's not that bad.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0639par0565	If you like, we'll continue with the polemics.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0645par0566	Prove it! Go to the D.A., prove it! You're full of shit.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0646par0567	Okay, come in. All right, Osman, come out and answer me.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0647par0568	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0648par0569	Mr. President, I reject everything Mr. Altay said.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0647par0570	Yes, Mr. Mush. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Minister has a request for word. I promise the Minister. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0649par0576	Mr. President, the Minister has not accepted any of these terrorist organizations for past governments. He has said something like that, even now he is aiding and abetting terrorism. Let me make this very clear that none of these statements are true. As a minister in both the 61st and 62st government and 64th and 65th governments, I know very well before that, as the undersecretary of these governments, that the PKK has been a terrorist organization all along, and it has never been a terrorist organization. Now, it's coming from there about the solution process. I've never...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0650par0578	Miroglu, Miroglu, where are you? Don't let Miroglu hear.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0651par0579	Hey, listen to me, just hear me out!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0649par0580	Look, very clearly, with the solution process...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0652par0581	Let's hear it, Congressmans. Listen up, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0651par0582	Just listen to me!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0649par0583	...interested in the terrorist organization of the PKK.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0653par0584	The forgotten Miroglu, forgotten...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0651par0585	Oh, don't talk! Learn to listen.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0654par0586	Mr. Akar, please...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0655par0587	Look, this solution process has not been done in secret.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0656par0588	Put your fucking hand down!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0657par0589	Speech! Shame. You dirty man!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0658par0590	Speak with respect, don't shout.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0659par0591	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0657par0592	He asked questions, the Minister answers. Listen!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0660par0593	Nobody asked him any questions.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0657par0594	Speech!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0660par0595	Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0657par0596	You're rude!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0661par0597	Don't say that. You're rude!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0657par0598	Speech!
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0661par0599	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0657par0600	I'll say anything. Look over there first.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0662par0601	Sit down, sit down, sit down... sit down, listen.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0663par0602	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0657par0603	Shame! You're vice president of the group.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0664par0604	Aren't you a congressman? Why do you call him mean?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0657par0605	Everybody listened when you were talking.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0664par0606	Okay.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0657par0607	Why don't you listen?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0664par0608	What are you getting involved in? You've got a group vice president here.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0657par0609	You're talking about unity, unity.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0665par0610	There's a deputy head of the group, let him answer.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0664par0611	Don't you guys pick on me? Don't you ever pick on me?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0657par0612	You're talking about unity, unity.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0666par0613	He didn't? Didn't our group vice president pick on you when you were talking?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0657par0614	Is that any way to get a picture?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0667par0615	Jesus Christ! Sit down...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0668par0616	Mr. Secretary, you're talking, but...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0657par0617	You refer to the government, this is the Minister of Government speaking.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0667par0618	Sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0669par0619	Sit down, sit down.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0670par0620	That's very rude of you, lawmakers. It doesn't suit me, it doesn't really suit me.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0671par0621	It doesn't suit me either.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0670par0622	Yeah, it doesn't. We can't even afford to listen to each other here. It's the middle of the night. It's 3:00. There is such a thing as shame. We worked all night last night, and we're working all night. Mr. Secretary, continue, please.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0672par0626	Mr. President, the solution process is not a secret action or a process. We passed law on the resolution process in Congress. That's the first thing. Is the law a secret? It was published in the official newspaper, which came with the approval of parliament. We've established a commission in the past on the solution process. We said, "Come to the committee, join in." There's a commission in the House. Is there any secret? No. Again, we issued a decision on the resolution process of the Council of Ministers and published it in the Official Gazette. Is there any secret? No. I'm going to drop the guns, and Turkey will now open up a democratic battle zone. When you say, "No, why are you leaving the guns?" Stay in Turkey. What do you call it? Thus, so far, what was done under the solution process was correct. Let us also know that the people we killed in the fight against terrorism are citizens of this country, that they are the father of their mother, that indeed, one of the two sons was sent to the army as Mehmetchik, but the other was on the mountain. Thus, the solution process was correct, and the solution process was not co-operation with the PKK, but a good intentional move so that the mothers of this country would not cry. When did it stop?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0673par0628	What happened?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0672par0629	Exactly. When did it stop?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0674par0630	Didn't the mothers cry?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0672par0631	The terrorist organization couldn't use its will. I'm telling you very clearly, if he had used his will... look, we've gone up to 20 percent.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0675par0632	And now both his sons have gone up the mountain?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0672par0633	The function of being the tongs of external forces, not the time. It was said that it stopped them from coming out. Rather than a democratic struggle, he even came to the armed struggle, blocking the HDP. This isn't right, I'm making it very clear. Two: Our Minister of Justice for the terrorist organization said a very nice thing: he walked with us to 17-25, and after 17-25, he walked with you. Even now, look, we've passed a law on liquidating judges who belong to this structure. When we passed the law, you went to the Supreme Court before it was published. See, now, these judges of the HSYK have a decision on liquidation, and they say: "Please look at him. " The judges decide to listen, but Turkey decides to listen, not in Turkey, but abroad. What kind of a judge is that? He doesn't have jurisdiction in his file, but he's demanding the file, he's ordering an evacuation. Again, in this court, again, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors...
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0676par0636	Did we get those judges, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0677par0637	Minister, in 2010 we warned you, we warned you in that referendum, you're doing it wrong, the HSYK structure will change. You told us: "You are wrong." What happened? You were wrong.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0672par0638	My last word, Mr. President. They're copying the file, sending it to America. They decide how to decide from there, and the HSYK says so. So we did what we did with good faith and righteousness.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0678par0640	But your good intentions are wrong.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0672par0641	We thought it was in the best interests of this nation. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0679par0644	You do it with good intentions, and someone else always does it with bad intentions.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0680par0646	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0681par0647	The roads you come from are paved with goodwill stones. Why is it bad faith when you do it and we do it?
tbmm-2016-11-30sit11spe0680par0648	Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
