tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 71st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Congressmans, we're going to do an electronic check-up. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I request that the MPs press ballots and report that they are in the hall, that lawmakers who are unable to enter the electronic system ask for help from technical staff present at this time, while members who are unable to enter the system, deliver their roll call ballots through their personnel, within three minutes, and begin the inspection process. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Erkan Aydın. But there's a hum in the General Assembly, Mr. Lawmakers. I've invited the deputy to the stand, so please stop talking amongst yourselves. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0002par0018	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to my electoral district, Mr. President. I salute your grand delegation and the people who follow us on their screens. Before I begin my talk, I regret and condemn the transfer of the Beşiktaş Gymnastic Club, which was played last night, to the 2nd President, İsmet Inön (Istem) and to the Vodafone Arena, and to the Ataturk Stadium, as well as to the transformation of the Ataturk Stadium. Gene, I'm also critical of the fact that Beşiktas fans and the Bazaar Group are not officially allowed to open and are greeted with pepper spray. In the final minutes of the match, I have submitted my request to review the decision that some football players should be sent to the stands by coach Hamza Hamzaoglu, who has been known to be masters and to correct this issue. Our scholarshipspor is not unclaimed, nor is our Scholarship unclaimed, but problems are rapidly growing because of issues such as unemployment, poverty, increasing migration and population. He faces environmental disaster as well as problems. The annual amount of solid waste produced by industrial activity in our country is around 28 million tonnes, while the amount of land waste is around 10,000 tonnes per day in Bursa. Part of the solid waste collected from the settlement units goes to the Hamites solid waste collection site, which was established in 1995. On the way here, only the Republican People's Party, Lotus Municipality, has been segregated, and other municipalities have not done so, so its life span is over in a very short time. So, what did the City of Bursa do? By deciding in his own city council, he declared the area of the forest, where there was green areas in the southern part of Lotus, where there was agriculture, where there was a solid waste collection area. Well, who'd he ask? To our people? No. To the Mukhtars? No. To academic rooms about environmental and urbanism? No. Just by making a decision of his own, I did it, and he said, "I did it." He declared the green, agriculture, and the land that would affect his future as a solid waste collection area. There are already 52 quarryes here, so green and surrounding areas are being slaughtered. This waste collection facility will also affect several areas, such as Lake Apolyont, Hasana Lake, Kayapa Pond, and other areas just east of this region. The region, declared world heritage by Ramsar, will quickly be contaminated by the region known as the bird's paradise. The burning method that the EU left long ago will be used in this region, and the City of Bursa has declared it a threat to the future of three million people living in Burma. I'd like to invite the Minister of Environment and Urbanism to the post. I demand that this error be stopped at once, and that the green, agriculture, and forest of Burma be protected. We must remember that every beauty is only for those who know its worth. We have to know the values of Turkey and our cities and maintain them. Don't kill Bursa, my lords. Finally, I would like to give examples of a place in the monthly magazine of the City of Bursa, which is called a History Page: April. What'd he say, Mr. Bursa Metropolitan Magazine: on April 2nd, the Titanic began its trial campaign. The color photo was invented on April 3rd. On April 9, 1945, the first domestic light bulb use began production. Gene survived the French occupation on April 11th... the islands of Istanbul were conquered on April 17th, but the foundation of our Veteran Assembly, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, unfortunately, was not found on the pages of this magazine. Instead, it was noted that on April 23, 1961, the first TBMM building was made a museum. I leave the interpretation to our great people and to our nation, and salute your delegation.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0003par0030	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Radiye Sezer Katırcıoğlu who asked about the 60th Session of the Women's Status Commission in the United States on March 14-19 2016. Your time is five minutes, Mr. Mulecioğlu.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0004par0035	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book oath from March 14th to March 20th to inform you of a series of contacts carried out in the United States of America. I hereby salute your high council. A very productive meeting has been held in New York and Washington, DC, with our three deputies representing our commission. Since the establishment of KEFEK (KEFEK) there has been regular accession to the United Nations Women's Status Commission. This year's agenda was the strengthening of the woman and its relationship to sustainable development. We met in bilateral talks with the Austrian and Swedish delegations, followed by Pakistan, Germany, Italy, representing the delegation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at the United Nations General Assembly. We also held side events such as Germany's Equal Payment Project on Women's Work, the Enforcement of Youths Project in Hungary, CADEM and W20, where we expressed our work. As you know, Turkey has launched its W20 agenda, the first in our G20 term presidency, as if it points to its importance to women's matters. In these studies, we have found that Turkey's call for co-operation with leaders for the adoption of this issue, for women's economic strengthening is appreciated by European countries. Our contacts continued in Washington, D.C. There, we met with two women members of the House of Representatives about the Caucus construction. The woman's Caucus construction is a structure of democratic and republican members on women's issues that examine women's problems in a way that is counterpartisanly sensitive. These members we interviewed said it was very important to have a Women's Equality Commission under the roof of parliament, that they were closely monitoring Turkey's activity in producing social policies and that they appreciated it. However, I'd like to point out that the Caucus structure had a close relationship with lawmakers' ability to do more independent politics, which was a more effective configuration in the presidential system. In our current parliamentary system, it seems very difficult to make such a structure happen. Two members of the House of Representatives, which we have discussed, have stated that they have signed for the women's equal wage law, but have failed to implement it, and that there is a lack of law on the challenges of working women before birth, after and during raising their children. However, as Turkey, we have all passed these laws that will strengthen the working woman from our Parliament, from our General Assembly. We see that in a situation where the United States of America has yet to make progress, in 2010, Turkey passed the law on equal wages, guarantees on equal work with the 14th Prime Minister's General Assembly. It's a legitimate source of pride for us. Our bilateral talks continued with the NGOs in the United States. We met with the Women's Work Group CARE, the United States Department of Labor, the United States Department of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Labor and the Turkish NGO. Another agenda of our contacts was violence against women. During our talks, interested ones stated that 350,000 women were killed every year in the United States, women in their working life were subjected to more violence. Congressmans, in our bilateral talks, we have found that many of the European countries have not signed the Istanbul Convention, and those who have set it have failed to comply. In particular, we have discussed with regret that the United States of America has shown a great influence in signing international agreements. Again, we found that no matter how effectively you struggle, there are still problems with women. For example, the Swedish women's congresswoman told us about her social media hatred language, her hatred language. As you know, Sweden is one of the countries to be modeled in women's affairs. We also attended an event, an event that made us proud of our delegation, which was an honorary award given to our ambassador by the Syrian American Association on behalf of Turkey. Yes, our aid to our Syrian guests is being finger-bitten and exemplary to all the countries of the world. In that sense, we invited them to the world summit in Istanbul. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One minute to collect my sentences...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0005par0046	Of course, Mr. Mulecioglu, I'm making a positive distinction with you. I'll give you one more minute. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0006par0050	Dear lawmakers, our assistance towards our Syrian guests is biting fingers, and the nations of the world are having trouble understanding our hosting. In this context, we have announced the World Humanitarian Summit, which will be held for the first time in İstanbul on 23 May and 24 May, and we have fulfilled our invitations. These meetings and contacts have given our Commission a very important cooperation to explain its work, as well as to increase its capacity. Mr. President, we've had the chance to visit the United States Diet Center of Maryland with our esteemed president. It has the title of a beautiful mosque, a mosque, and the largest mosque of America, that can bring tears to those who see it. It is a structure that can bring together Muslims from Africa, the Far East, from different nations, and enable different countries, cultures, to experience co-existence. It'll be our pleasure to join the clan. I give thanks to all who have passed the effort, and salute your high council. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0007par0055	Thank you, Mr. Mulecioğlu. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mr. Baki Simsek, MP of Mersin who asked for a comment on Health Week. Your time is five minutes, Mr. Lightning. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0008par0061	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book pledge due to Health Week. I hereby salute the High Council. As I begin with my words, in the name of the Happy Birth Week, I wish that the messages of the Prophet would enlighten all mankind, bring peace and brotherhood to the world. Unfortunately, there is blood and tears in the Islamic world today. Wherever there's oil in the world, there's Muslims, global forces write all kinds of scenarios on these areas to achieve their imperialistic ambitions. In the world of Islam, which should be wary of it, where the Messenger of God should understand his messages correctly, there is luxury and luxury and poverty on one side and poverty on the other. Kings who were greeted with 500 luxury Mercedes, on the other hand are Syrian children begging for bread on the road. Unfortunately, this is the current reality of the Islamic world. This is incompatible with the essence of Islam, the Muhammadic spirit. I wish Allah's mercy to Specialist Sergeant Burak Canturk, who was also killed in the same attack by an explosive vehicle carried out by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists. In the last seven weeks alone, Mersin has lost nine heroes, including hero Captain Halil Özdemir. I pray to God for mercy to our martyrs, and to their families, and to the 39 of our wounded soldiers, that we may heal quickly. Health Week is the week the public celebrates their awareness of health. The purpose of Health Week is that health information and assistance reach large populations. Great figures such as Lokman Doctor, Ibn-i Sina, have always been valued in the health issue throughout Turkish history, have made significant advances in medicine. In the Republic, there were also important studies on health. In 1920, the Ministry of Health, Ankara, İstanbul, Sivas, Tripoli, Erzurum, Diyarbakır Numune Hospitals were opened, but recent steps have been insufficient. Based on my constituency of Mersin, the population of Mersin is 2 million. Mersin is the 10th largest city in Turkey. There are 24 hospitals in Mersin, along with their districts. Unfortunately, Mersin is ranked 63 percent in the number of beds per person. Our number of physicians is 2,400. For a great city like Mersin, it is not a pleasant number. There's a shortage of attendings in all districts outside Mersin. There are no specialist doctors and dialysis units in pinelia. In the district where 100,000 people live in the summer, people have to travel 120 kilometers to enter dialysis. I'd like to repeat from here that this is a torture for these people. The Mersin city hospital must be opened and activated immediately. What has not been done for years must be laid at once at the foundation of the Taros city hospital. The painting is the same in Mersin Mut district, where our doctors come and work on temporary duty, which is a problem for both our doctors and our patients. The pediatrician comes on temporary duty, urology doctor one day a week, psychiatrist one day, cardiologist two days. Can you imagine, the patient who came in a week ago goes to see another doctor a week later and the doctor doesn't even remember this patient? Dear lawmakers have been implementing public-private sector partnerships in the construction of city hospitals in recent years, with the public and private sector signing protocols among themselves. With these partnership protocols, the private sector operates its own personnel in certain units. Unfortunately, the most subcontractors are in health. The same problem is being experienced at the city hospital in Mersin province, where public and private sector partnerships are being implemented. The contractor who signed the protocol, the public staff, including radiology lab technicians and our friends who worked as physical therapists, are gathered in a pool and face resension. On this occasion, I salute the Turkish nation and the Grand Assembly as I end my words by saying that we are with them in this holy struggle, all of our heroes, who are fighting with their lives to root out the terrorist organization Kurdistan.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0009par0075	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda now, I'm going to make a short promise to the members of parliament who have entered the system. However, we will only promise the first 15 chapters of the MPs. I'd like to remind you, lawmakers: On Thursday (April 7, 2016) the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will promise the first 15 MPs to enter the system as a result of an agreement held at the meeting held at the Assembly Hall of Turkey's Grand National Assembly and with the participation of Parliament's MPs. We're starting to run this system, this program today, based on this decision that we've made. I'm sorry it came to me, but we have to do this. I'm going to give my word to the first 15 congressmen. We'll start in order. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0010par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, is it true that Turkey's Grand National Assembly's 96th anniversary, National Sovereignty and Children's Day celebrations have been cancelled this year under the pretext of terror and martyrs? Also, there are property and zoning problems in the district of Skopjedar. The Ministry of Mayors, Environment and Urbanism said they'd take care of it, but Skeküdar Yavuzturk neighborhood is a victim. In our glorious province, periodically, electricity is cut for seven or eight hours a day. The lucky ones, of course, for five years now, we've been talking about permanent power outages, but this electrical victimism is not being removed. Why is it that the Urbans are always out of power, and we just can't figure it out? However, I'm calling from here to all the Şanlıurfa people: Please, don't support AKP so much. As long as they're backing you up, they'll keep cutting off your power. Another question: In which municipalities does white TV receive production services and how much money does it receive for production fees? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0011par0090	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0012par0092	Mr. President, I spoke to the potato makers in Niğde and Nevşehir at the weekend. The manufacturers couldn't even sell under the cost, so the product remained in storage. Farmers are so miserable, they're thinking about how to make the new plant. Farmers' debt to agricultural loan co-ops is required to postpone or restructure agricultural loans and loans used for tractors used at the Agriculture Bank. The manufacturers are unable to farm. Also, apricot trees in the gardens are unable to produce fruit due to frosts in Bor district, the village of Sazala and other areas of apricot trees. With the damage assessment, apricot manufacturers expect their victims to be compensated. The apple manufacturer's products remain in storage, not even at cost. The government is required to assess the damage caused by potatoes, apples and apricots, and to address the problems of our farmers in this context.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0011par0093	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0013par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Government officials, the olive producers of Hatay County are having a lot of problems due to economic difficulties. Our province of Hatay, which has 9 per cent of the total existence of an olive tree, is the fifth of the cities in terms of the number of olive trees. However, reducing, removing environmental damage to oil production, even restoring waste to the economy is of great interest to the producers, businesses and everyone affected by the damage it has done to the environment. In this case, I think it would be appropriate by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism to provide financial support for producers to prevent environmental damage to waste, and I demand that it be done. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0014par0098	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0015par0100	Mr. President, our Deputy Erkan just told me, it's a joke. Bursa Metropolitan City publishes April's historical programme in a magazine, and here it is, the dollar symbol for Pollock, the test expeditions of the Titanic, the first light bulb, the funnier, Simpson's televised show, but somehow on April 23, 1920, April 23, 1920. I ask you, you people of the AKP, under the roof of this great House, do you accept this understanding? If you're ignoring this House's founding day, what are you doing here? If you're not ignoring it, please, I'm asking you to do what you have to do about Bursa Metropolitan. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0016par0103	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0017par0105	Thank you. I have been promised Ilhan Çomak, who has still been under arrest for 22 years and will be arraigned tomorrow. Ilhan Çokak is still under arrest for suspicion that the crimes he was supposed to have committed 20 years ago could have obscured evidence. Aziz Yıldırım, Salih Mirzabeyoğlu, as well as Ergenekon, the case of those arrested in the Balyoz cases and then released, is the same as Ilhan. But the court does not abide by the law. There's no action, no manslaughter, no weapon. If we were living in a democratic state of law, the Minister of Justice would have to come out and apologize. Ilhan Çomak, who reads 3,000 books and writes 4 poetry books in twenty-two years, must now be released. Those who are angry about the bus that arrived ten minutes late, those who seem to die a few hours late for the person they love, put themselves in our shoes, and we wait twenty-two years for the tongue. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0018par0108	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0019par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP government ignores the miserable state of the tic producers, such as the opening of a stadium by the President in an environment without Beşiktas audiences. In recent years, our producer has been a victim of unqualified and incoherent agricultural policies imposed by the AKP, despite the total effort of the manufacturer and the support of Turkish scientists, rising from 300,000 tonnes to 900,000 tonnes. Last year, the kilogram was sold for $2, and this year, 1.5 lira was hard to see. The office has been opened three months after the harvest, but many manufacturers have not even been able to deliver products to the office. If you don't see the manufacturer, they will see you very well in the election.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0018par0112	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0020par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. On the night of April 12th, on the night of April 13th, the Great Hakan Sultan Abdulhamit Khan was struck with a coup on March 31, 1909, until 1918, the entire empire fell apart and the Turks were imprisoned in Anatolia. Instead of dividing the Republic of Turkey, the imperialists wanted to exploit it financially, socially and politically. To do so, a new model of management was needed with a colonial understanding. Here's the parliamentary system that has made our nation pay heavy economic and political costs for 90 years, a model of governance that has been forced by coup and foreign intervention as a product of this colonial understanding. In this context, I once again declare the need for the new constitution to be prepared with the understanding of democratic governance, which has ended the understanding of colonial governance, which will allow our country's stable economic development, remove all foster institutions, which, of course, is based on the presidential model, I salute the Grand Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0021par0117	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0022par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. The railways Sivas-Samsun line personnel are now facing a major problem. A large part of the staff is required to be transferred. The Sivas-Samsun line has been redeveloped and revised. That's why there's no transportation here this year, and since there's no transportation, there's no need for personnel, it's being transferred to areas that need to be done, and the state's interests are being considered. The experience of employees who have worked and experienced in this area for years is requested to be reset. I submit to the public conscience that there is a mandatory transfer in this day and age. Let's say the road revision is over, and the crew that runs this line will come back. Will the experience of these be enough here? This must be turned around immediately. These employees can be given short-term assignments in their area. The 4th District of TCDD also needs personnel. Mr. Transport, Marine and Telecommunications Minister Banilli Yıldırım....I'm giving this warning from here and immediately conveying our request for the removal of these victims.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0023par0122	Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0024par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, the Mersin area is a region that produces serious fruit and vegetables, and the irrigation companies are having trouble paying serious electricity bills, and they're having trouble paying for it. I have a protocol, a protocol between the Tigris Electric Dispersion Act and the Salvation Watering Association. There will be a 59 per cent reduction on the index that is read on the table. There is a clause called "Object," which means a 59 per cent reduction is being given. Especially during this difficult time for our vegetable manufacturers, these power-watering troops are having trouble paying. We want the irrigation troops in the Mersin area to benefit from these discounts as well. Secondly, you know, our manufacturers, as soon as they grow, grow in three months, so they say it's better to be paid once a year than to be paid for electricity monthly, because they can't make monthly payments. The ministry's work on this...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0025par0129	Dear Line...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0026par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you about an important academic woman, Professor Seville Atasoy. Sevil Hanım has been re-elected to the United Nations International Drug Control Board. The fact that Mr. Atasoy was the first Turkish citizen to be the chairman of the Council and served as the second female president in his history over a hundred years has been a source of pride for us women politicians. We are also honored to have a member of Turkey in the Council, which aims to help the United Nations in combating illegal drug trafficking crimes, conducting extensive work on international terrorism and finding solutions to criminals, and that this member is a woman. With such feelings, I congratulate Professor Dr. Sevil Atasoy, and wish you all the best. I salute the General Assembly, wishing your new mission to our country and to our nation.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0027par0135	Mr. Illgezdi...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0028par0137	Mr. President, Malatya Gazi Anadolu High School Assistant Director N. T. The people have accused their children of adultery. I think it's the most important indicator of our country's regressive mentality, when this self-explaining social media account considers our cultural heritage as our thousands of years of public play. It is also dangerous for this person to serve as an educator, who explains that he considers holding hands and standing up to the aunt as a motive for the murder of honor. I condemn this person to call this state adultery, the most precious cultural treasure of our people for centuries. Is there an investigation launched by Minister of National Education Nabi Avcı, who has made clear statements about the hate crime, the crime and the criminal? Is the subject suspended? N. T. Do you have any criminal charges filed against you? In this matter, I demand the enlightenment of our parents who are concerned about the future of the High Council and our children.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0027par0138	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0029par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. On January 15, 2016, I asked our Minister of Labour and Social Security, Mr. Süleyman Nobleman, if he would be granted a ten per cent foreign status at his workplace, or official permission to work for Syrian citizens. Yes, the document came in today, from the post office on April 5th, and from now on, at every workplace, as many as 10 per cent of Syrian citizens will work. For the first time in the past four years, unemployment numbers have reached double digits, becoming 11.4 at the end of 2015. Well, once these quotas are put in, the unemployment in Turkey will be 15-16 per cent after 10 per cent of Syrian work. What does that mean? The AKP government is leading citizens of the Republic of Turkey to greater unemployment. I strongly recommend that this error be put aside immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0030par0143	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0031par0145	Mr. President, congratulations to all our police officers for the 171st anniversary of the establishment of our police force. I salute our security forces involved in operations in the fight against terrorism. I pray to God for mercy to our martyrs, and to our wounded security forces for immediate healing. I'd like to share with you the feelings and wishes of our citizens in my electoral district today that the country's unity is being fought against the pawns of foreign forces who want to break up its integrity. They say we want to remove the immunity of lawmakers who support the women, the elderly, the children, the terrorist organization, the terrorist organization who aided and aided the terrorist organization. I offer it with respect.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0032par0148	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0033par0150	I have three questions for the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. One: The Yazdur neighborhoods of Doduram Dodurga, the Project on Things. We want this project to include watering the plains of these neighborhoods. Expand this project before the project is implemented. Two: Let water be given from the present Leaf Dam to Dodurga, Yazr neighborhoods and plains until the project in this region is implemented. Our citizens want to farm water, the current underground irrigation system costs a lot of money. Three: As a ministry, you have promised to cleanse and reform Archayam Kelekçi District Gireniz Deresi, Dalaman Tea. When are you planning on doing this decontamination? Or have you forgotten your promise? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0034par0155	The last speaker is Mr. Star Reaper. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0035par0158	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we didn't steal Mount Çal in Manisa Turgutlu. We're right, we'll win. We said we were right, we won. The court ruled that the EPA report, approved by the Ministry of Environment, was given both unlawfully and unsupervisedly, and cancelled the second CED report from Turgutlu's nickel mine. For the past 11 years, I have greeted all of Manisa, Artvin Cerattepe, and all those who have resisted and resisted and fought against the Ministry of the Environment and wild mining of their own country, and all those who have resisted for the environment throughout the country. My respects.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0036par0161	Thank you, lawmakers. I'll make a promise to the members of the group who have entered the system. Mr. Group Vice President's words are also set as two plus one; if they complete their words within two minutes, I will give you one more minute, but as long as they do not complete them. Mr. Akçay, let's start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0037par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. There was a terrorist attack last night in Hani district of Diyarbakır province with a bomb-loaded tanker at the district police station, and so far, two of our soldiers were killed and 38 of our soldiers and eight of our citizens were injured. I pray for God's mercy to all our martyrs and to all our citizens, and for the immediate healing of the wounded while I offer my condolences to their grieving relatives and to our nation. Unfortunately, we continue to see the consequences of the confessions of the government's rulers. Please, let's remember the confessions. September 6, 2015: These considered the solution process to be a weapons stockpile process. They've stockpiled a very serious weapon and ammunition. The date is March 20, 2016: During the solution process, we've had some advice to our governors, so don't squeeze them in on some of these little things, don't go after them or anything like that. Our security forces, in fact, have put some pressure on our governors at that point. On February 13, 2016, an AKP deputy also filled the cities with armed elements and about 200 tons of bombs. He said, "We remember many such confessions." Where's the Home Secretary when all these attacks are happening, while he's sacrificing his life to terror? When he is the governor of Diyarbakır, let Cana come to the window. What does the Interior Minister do when all these lives are martyred and why doesn't he make any statements?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0038par0172	Mr. Akçay, I'll give you an extension, please, complete.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0037par0173	Thank you. Our call is to the government. The size of terror has brought our country to a fight for becca. This struggle must be decisive, but without it, without it. But unfortunately, we still don't see that will in the government. After announcing the action plan in Mardin on 5 February, the Prime Minister stated on 11 February that he had no concept or concept of fighting terrorism. On April 3rd, the same Prime Minister returned to Diyarbakir in May 2013, and everything could be discussed. What is the meaning of everything, who will you talk to, what will you talk to? May 2013 is the process that detonates bombs in our cities today. May 2013, Mr. President, AKP Vice President... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President. I'm expressing the last sentence.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0039par0177	Mr. Akçay, we've determined the times as two plus one in accordance with the decision we've made, you know.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0037par0178	Well, then I'm saying it in terms of filing a report.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0039par0179	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0037par0180	We invite the government to be firm and consistent in the fight against terrorism. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0039par0182	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Demirel, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0040par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, this weekend we saw that there were still no blockades in Şırnak, Cizre, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey. Again, you know, there were curfews, blockades. Those who said the blockades were partially removed there, then began to implement the curfew completely arbitraryly, and thus the civilian populations who lived there lost their lives. 70-year-old mothers, two-year-old grandchildren, four people from one family died again. I mean, when you put it that way... Again, people, municipal workers and engineers were taken out of the province, out of the district, and blocked from entry into the district. We've seen these blockades, and we've seen that there's really no step forward, that the blockades haven't been removed. The blockade is still in Tyre. During a fifth month period, even though the operations were said to have ended there, the Tigris River was taken to the ruins and funerals, human corpses, and female corpses. In the meantime, people are being massacred and arrested, including DBP, local governments and political party workers, members of MYK, members of the PM, as well as TK operations in 2009.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0041par0190	Mr. Demirel, I'll give you an extension, complete, please.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0040par0191	Thank you, Mr. President. So when we consider these as a whole, I want to say that an unacceptable situation has been re-enacted in the process of the coup. In private, the reason for the illegal raid of the Free Women's Association of KJA (KJA) is indeed unacceptable that we are still not informed of the reason, even though we demand it. Once again, we condemn the arrest of members of our party council and women's employees in custody. Just as we have the law of AKP MPs, we have the law, we have the law, we have the execution. We see again that the practices he calls "responsibility." HDP has been taken into custody and arrested by district managers and even members of the Central Executive Board of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP). So, a pressure on political will, a coup. By saying again that we did not agree to this... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish my last sentence, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0042par0196	It's going on the record, Mr. Ironel. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0040par0198	...in the first place, those who were taken into custody and arrested in the 2009 ACK operations. We didn't do it, the congregation did it. Those who said, "I'd like to ask the power again: who did it this time?" Why are our female activists and political executives, expressing their political views in the political struggle, being taken into custody and arrested again? Then those who judged them are now in prison, but the same mentality is in effect again. Who's doing all this? We'd like to ask the government and the government again. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0042par0200	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0043par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, as of now, I would like to stress that there is no member of the government at the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The government doesn't exist not only in the General Assembly, but in Turkey. If there was a government in the country, we wouldn't get news of a bomb every day, news of the martyr, news of the wounded. As a matter of fact, Turkey was once again wounded by three martyrs, 38 wounded in a bomb attack yesterday in Hani. I don't know what the government will do. However, the rockets fall on the church, and the people are wounded, and the government watches. That's not very acceptable either. But, ever since, these government-appointed bureaucrats have been able to share our 1,000-year-old folklore tradition with public opinion, social media. I'd like it to be known that the government has come forward and handed over the Turkish national education system to people like this one, and that Turkey is the first to be known for its new and major problems. By the way, there's another local situation. There is an old Willow village in the village of Doğanşehir, Malatya Province, Turkey. People who live in this village drink even a cup of tea on credit; city network waters are not reported, they have undrinkable water; they have no electricity; they have mosques; they have imams; they have health clinics; they don't have midwifes. People from all over Malatya are being hired as part of the İSKUR project, while our citizens living in this Willow village are being ignored by İSKUR. If Turkey was a member of the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly, there is a village called Süğüt in the District of Doğan, Malatya Province, Turkey, and there is a village far away, and that village is our village. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0044par0207	Mr. Altay, thank you. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0045par0210	Mr. President, thank you. This year, the week between April 11th and April 17th is celebrated with various events as the Happy Birth Week. As it is known, the Holy Birth Week is a week of events that the Prophet, the Prophet, was given as a bearer of good news to mankind, to remind them of what he had done and what his future legacy had been. Many prophets came to the earth. According to our belief, the last prophet Muhammad Mustafa is our prophet. A man who came to complete good morality in his own words, and in his own life, the book, which God mediated, as well as the word of God, was also sent to mankind as a book of beautiful morality. When we look at the Qur'an, it is called, O believers. It is called, O people. So we believe that Islam's orders, not only for Muslims, but for moral advice, a norm, as a code of rules that ensures that people live in peace in this world in life, are carrying messages to all mankind, and that's basically what we see when we look at it. Hopefully, this week's theme is...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0046par0214	Mr. Bostanci, I'm giving you an extension, please complete.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0045par0215	...the theme of this year, the bride, let's be united. We think that this theme, quoted by Jonah Emre. The theme, which is expressed by Jonah Emre. We think it will mediate the wisdom of Turkey and the world, of the various problems, tensions and conflicts, of the knowledge that peace and calm have ultimately passed from uniting in different ways. On the other hand, Turkey is waging a tough fight against terrorism. It's a struggle that can take so many years. In one day, three days, three weeks, it's certainly not going to end, it's a struggle with deep roots. I'm afraid we get sad news every day in the context of this struggle. This struggle will continue for the peace and calm of this country, this country, this flag, the people who live here, and the future generations. I want to thank and express my gratitude to all those who fought and supported him and expressed their blessing. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0047par0218	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Members of the Council, we, on the occasion of Happy Birth Week, wish for peace, prosperity, and peace to come to our country as soon as possible, and we, once again, honor and gratefully remember the Holy Prophet Muhammad. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda now. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. I'll have the motions read separately. In third place, the motion to read the parliamentary research motion will be read over 500 words, but will be included in the full text of the motion magazine. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Independent and impartial justice is one of the most important conditions of democracy. The judiciary also performs an unprecedented function in order to control state bodies, as citizens serve at the point of justice both in front of the state and among themselves. According to history, most government rulers are recorded as cruel because they are fair or unfair. In recent years, our country has had great difficulties with the legal system. In our country, where it is referred to as "the reform of the judiciary," its members are named after their political views. Moreover, judicial staff deals with numerous issues in terms of financial rights and working conditions. The problems for the defense of the judiciary are also very big. Lawyers continue their duties under difficult circumstances as soon as they begin the job. With problems in social rights, increasing the number of lawyer suicides is not a random result. The systemic blockages of the judiciary, apart from its problems with personnel, lead to political appearance, thus damaging neutral and independentness. Following political cases such as Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, Oda TV, KCK, which have not yet ended their debate, today has caused similar debates, especially through the judiciary, to grow. Moreover, it has ceased to be a national quality and has challenged the negative mention of our country internationally. The European Union (EU), which has been under the country's administration for years with its membership bid, has drawn a bad picture for our judicial system in 2015. This painting has shown itself in every field. For example, the president's position, according to international observers, has been perceived as supporting the ruling party and overstepping the powers defined for the President in the Constitution. Public resources have been criticised for using them to support the AKP campaign. The press has faced more pressure and digestion, and this has increased the autotransmittance. Concerns have arisen over the transparency and independence of the Radio and Television Supreme Council (RTÜK) and the transparency of the Supreme Election Board, especially because there is no judicial path on election issues. Systemic problems have been reflected in the 2015 Progress Report as well as the recent negatives in the application. According to this, no progress has been made in the judiciary since the beginning of ▪2014. The independence of the judiciary and the principle of separation of forces were interrupted, and judges and prosecutors were under strong political pressure. Turkey in particular next year: 1) The creation of a political and legal environment, which allows the judiciary to carry out its duties independently and objectively, and respect the principle of governance and the rule of separation of powers of law, 2) Administrator limiting his role and influence on the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors and providing sufficient assurance that judges' positions of office cannot be changed against their will, 3) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors must implement more protection measures in order to prevent interference in the judicial process. In this context, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental inquiry of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, 104th and 105th Articles, in order to investigate the problems of our country's judicial system in every way, to address the opinions of parties and representatives, to determine solution proposals within the framework of the EU standards. [[Çanakkale]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 6) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] [[Tripoli]] [[Adana]] [[Tekirdağ]] 10) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Gaziantep]] 13) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[Samsun]] 15) Selin Sayek Böke [[İzmir]] 16) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 19) Ahmet Tuncay Özkan [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Mughle]] 22) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 24) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Artvin]] 28) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Denizli]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate illegal phone and media wiretaps that violate the freedom of communication, and determine the measures taken against illegal phone and media wiretaps of the Constitution, we would like to request that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105. The Constitution has secured privacy and freedom of communication in order to protect basic rights and freedoms. Again, our Constitution states that everyone has freedom of communication, that communication is fundamental. In Turkey, the phones of politicians, journalists, businessmen, artists, have been illegally tapped, communicated in various ways, even though the decisions on telecommunications have been explicitly determined by which authorities can make decisions on how to evaluate signal information, and by which courts to take the wiretaps. Everyone in Turkey suspects their phones are being tapped, and they try to take precautions against it in their own way and methods. The fact that there is a suspicion of telephones, environments, and venues in many different parts of society shows that faith in the legal state is gone. In addition, there have been developments in Turkey that have gone beyond suspicion, communication content obtained in an illegal way is being published. Officials say against claims of listening, "Don't be afraid to rest unless it's illegal and you've got the wrong job." They have set the groundwork for illegal listening and encouraged public officials to violate the secrecy of communication. Those who say, "Don't be afraid to rest if you don't have a legitimate, wrong job." Those who use illegally obtained communications to gain political gain have become victims of the problem of listening. There have been 866000 listening in Turkey between 2010 and 2014, reports that 297 000 of these listenings are legal and 569 000 are prevention listening, and the numbers mentioned in the media have shown how widespread listening has been in Turkey. There are also serious doubts about the destruction of wiretaps made by a judicial decision, which are known to have been used for other purposes, not being properly destroyed during the course of these hearings. The person whose phone has been bugged within 15 days, your phone has been tapped, no criminal element has been found. It is alleged that these notifications were not made, even though the notification was mandatory. In order to determine legal, administrative, criminal sanctions, the rights of the Constitution to be opened in accordance with Articles 104, and 105, in accordance with Articles 104, and 105. [[Yalova]] 2) Oğuz Kaan Salcı [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Eskişehir]] 6) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 9) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] 11) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] 15) Ahmet Tuncay Özkan [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] 17) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] 20) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] 21) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 22) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[Artvin]] 25) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Denizli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] 32) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] [[Tripoli]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully offer and offer the opening of the Parliament's investigation of our Constitution's 98th and TBM Subcommittee 101st and 105th Articles in order to investigate allegations of illegal practices by members of Antalya Metropolitan Municipality. [[Antalya]] 2) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 7) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] 8) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] 11) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] 14) Ahmet Tuncay Özkan [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] 18) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] [[Artvin]] 20) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Denizli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] 28) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] [[Tripoli]] Following the appointment of Menderes Türel, mayor of Antalya Metropolitan City in 2014, several staffed officers and workers working in various units have been replaced, followed by layoffs in the Metropolitan Municipality, including senior tasks such as the Deputy Secretary General and Office President. These changes to the post have been identified as Gündoğmiş, Akseki, İbradi, Kash, Demre, Gazipaşa, which is the furthest away from the centre within the borders of Antalya Metropolitan Municipality. Events have been moved to the judiciary, and the decision has been made to halt the appointment of staff on the objective criteria and the appointment of personnel to be appointed to be transferred, on grounds that the cases such as service, seniority, success, Taltif detention have not been measured enough, and on grounds that they are not allowed to conduct layoffs. This has been registered as a violation of the law by the judicial body in the report of the Human Rights Violations and Review Commission, which has been appointed by the District Human Rights Board of Antalya Governorates, dated 20/4/2015: A) Anthalya Metropolitan Mayor has obtained personal data on civil servants in the status of officers and workers through action and processing, and has been tagged according to their political views and shared private information with the third people, B) A variety of psychological pressure and intimidation methods have been implemented on the grounds that they are opposed to public employees, C) There is no justification for the public benefits of appointment and replacements, d) They were forced to work under insufficient room conditions in the displaced places of duty, e) where they have been subjected to a mobbinge of underprivileged and underprivileged chiefs, f) Antalya Metropolitan Mayor's office has committed a violation of the law, G) That the body and soul health of the displaced staff were corrupted, that they were forced to spend half their days traveling, that family troops were endangered, that even pregnant or newborn mothers were in distress, H) There has been a general decline in the quality of municipal services, especially in the services of staff whose body and mental health have been damaged. i) Although there are no jobs available to non-objective personnel, in accordance with their capacity, the transport costs for these people to travel to remote counties have been wasted on purpose, especially on public resources, j) The public employees mentioned above have been consciously and systematically violated by human rights, it is quoted in the form. The cases against the removal of the appointments have often resulted in a positive outcome. Antalya 1. The Supreme Court's 2015/475 basis, dated 25/3/2015 and Antalya 3. The Supreme Court's 2014/1651 main, 2015/809, 2015/157, 2015/958, is an example of this. However, the allegations that the decisions are still not being carried out, that the personnel returning to the centre by judicial order have been reassigned to remote districts, and that the arbitrary appointments of staff who have not applied to the court are still on the agenda. It has also been reported that new layoffs have been made and married couples are among them, completely depriving a family of income. Because of the ethnic, belief, or political views of public employees, it is unacceptable in a democracy ruled by the rule of law that the state is subject to discrimination by the hands of official institutions, that family troops and order should be injured by the arbitrary decisions, that it may be damaged financially, that it may be ruled by the principle of the state of law. For these reasons, we propose and propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission under Articles 104,4,5,5, of our Constitutional Charter 98, and 105, in order to determine the problems of its staff exposed to arbitrary use in the City of Antalya, and to ensure the necessary measures needed in resolving their victims. It has been presented to your knowledge. Members of parliament, the motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkish Parliament Speaker Mr. İsmail Kahraman and his delegation of Parliament will visit Kosovo on 8 April 2016 to attend the ceremony of the President of Kosovo, and will be presented to the General Assembly under Article 33620 of Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' 12/4/2016 Tuesday (now) meeting, I would like to submit our group's following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On April 11, 2016, it was proposed that a parliamentary survey of the Parliament be opened on Tuesday 12/4/2016 (now) at the General Assembly, where we have submitted 1510 points to the head of the TBMM, in order to determine the measures that should be taken by the hackers of Balıkesir MP Ismail Ok and his friends, which are uploaded to the Internet, to determine the personal information of nearly 50 million citizens of the Republic of Turkey. In favour of the National Movement Group's proposal, the first speaker is Balıkesir MP, Mr. Ismail Ok. Mr. Ok, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0048par0495	I have received a pledge on behalf of my party in an investigation motion on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to investigate claims that the personal data of nearly 50 million citizens of the Republic of Turkey has been stolen. I hereby salute all our representatives who have gathered under the Veteran Assembly and represent the great Turkish nation. As you know, it's Happy Birthday Week. I hereby celebrate the Happy Birth Week of our entire nation, and I especially wish the Witnesses the best of their work. Again, this week is Police Week. And I want to say once again that all of our police officers are celebrating Police Week, and I want to say that we support them for our country, for our nation, for any work they do for our honor, for our honor. Again, before we get to the point, last night, unfortunately, we were again shaken by a traitorous attack. Two of our soldiers were killed and tens of our soldiers and citizens were injured as a result of a backstabbing attack in Hani district of Diyarbakır. I ask God's mercy for these martyrs and for our wounded to heal quickly. Yes, now, I have come before the High Council for a matter of utmost importance. As you may recall, this Grand Assembly has just been filled for two weeks since it accepted the Law on Protection of Personal Data. Unfortunately, in the course of the implementation of this Law, it is the sole responsibility of this great scandal that is now shaking down our country, ignoring all our good-willed warnings as the National Movement Party. On the morning of April 4th, our country was shaken by the news that the identity information of nearly 50 million citizens had been stolen. Unfortunately, in the face of such a serious claim in the interest of the country, unfortunately, Minister of Transport and Communications Bülli Yıldırım has come up with an old claim like this in 2010, which has no current value. However, the 20th article of our Constitution guarantees private information and family privacy. This information, which is under the legal responsibility of the government and the Minister of Transport, has unfortunately shown how far away from our government's sense of duty and responsibility has been stolen by the theft of this information. Mr. Minister Buli Yıldırım has no current value. He said that all of this information was published by hackers via an offshore website. These events in these days, when the new law prepares for our country's biometric data system, indicate that the biometric data system will face greater security problems in our country. The person who has taken over the biometric data system, the institution, the organisation or countries, will be able to leverage any threat or blackmail against Turkey. This is really very important, so it is not a subject to be taken lightly. Unfortunately, right now, all of us, including the President and the Prime Minister, have IDs and home addresses of about 50 million of our citizens, not only in Turkey, but in sheets all over the world. Some documents and information of important public institutions and institutions such as the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Police General Directorate, Social Security Agency have also been leaked and published in the past. So, what did the ruling party do in the face of all this? No political responsibility has been taken, and since no minister has resigned, bureaucrats are not taking responsibility. These scandals show that there are no decent executives in public institutions and institutions. But God, the Creator of all the worlds, said to the People of the House, "Give it to the People of the Right Hand." So, what does the AKP government do? Before the data is stored, it must be decided which data to collect, so data must be collected as much as necessary. For example, we want to study the number of newborns, but we're doing a study where we publish all kinds of information about that boy's family. Therefore, there must be criteria for these things. On such an important board, unfortunately, the National Party of Action is excluded. The AKP government, who called it participation in everything, called it diversity, called it pluralism, and kept democracy in its mouth, remained in the classroom with its application. It is sadly contrary to the essence and spirit of participating democracy. In short, these events show what great dangers we face as a country. If biometric data is obtained, our country will face all kinds of international threats and blackmail, which is something we never, ever wanted. For that reason, our government, unfortunately, has not yet heard the law on the use of this personal data in less than a month, and I believe that this time, I hope, our religion, our country, and our nation will not face such great threats, blackmails, even national security problems. If the information of 50 million citizens in a European country had been passed across the Internet, there would have been an earthquake, I assure you, but unfortunately, we still don't seem to have learned. So we say, as the National Movement Party, our goal is not to eat grapes, but to beat the laces, but the future of our nation and our country. Therefore, I urge all lawmakers, who have a conscience, who I believe love their country, to support this proposal from any party, the National Movement Party. Now, if we learn from these experiences and guide the future accordingly, these days will open up to new horizons where similar tribulations do not occur. Government information has always been leaked. And believe me, these biometrics are the danger of leaking the information of private institutions and organizations in the coming days. Once again, God forbid, there is a great danger to Turkey and the Turkish nation when biometric data is leaked or captured by the latest law. Please, we will oppose what the opposition says. Let's give up its understanding and support this proposal by the National Movement Party, and let's face it, take the necessary measures to ensure that these problems never happen again, and I salute the High Assembly in the name of the National Party of Action.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0049par0508	Thank you, Mr. Ok. Mr. Ali Ihsan Yavuz... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Yavuz. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0050par0513	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group against the National Movement Party's motion to investigate. I hereby salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, I once again say to the Prophet (SAV) salutations and salutations to the Holy Birth Week, and I congratulate and congratulate you on Happy Birthday Week. When I say Happy Birthday Week, I think of the Medina Convention. I'd like to get to the point by stressing that, too. In fact, even though Westerners accepted Magna Carta as the first written constitution, the Islamic people talk about the first constitution written six hundred years before that as the first constitution of the Medine Convention. There are groups of all races, of all colors, of all kinds of communities -- Jews in that community, Christians, pagans, pagan Arab communities, inventors, inventors -- people of all colors, religions, and languages -- and that's the name of the contract that's been put together. And so, on the basis of that prophecy, people lived in peace there, and all those communities protected Medina, together, against foreign enemies. After that point, I want to get to the point. I think this motion from the National Movement Party is very meaningful, and I think it's actually very well-intentioned, but there's a legal code, and there are some facts. I'd like to tell you about some of these facts. For example, Article 47 of Law 298 contains a very clear ruling on this issue, and based on this, parties receive these lists, each party receives them. I'm about to refer to the generalities. See, Law 298... which was passed in 1961. Isn't that what we've always said, that the law is too narrow for us, it doesn't, it doesn't, it doesn't, it doesn't; come, let's change these laws together. Of course, we do, but a lot of changes have been made here, but many times we've actually observed that there's been an effort to slow down these Parliamental studies, to make sure that the law doesn't come out too quickly. See, there's the DSP, MHP, ANAP coalition that was removed in 1961, and there was a change in 2000. According to this: The election logs are requested by political party centres, or by the authorized mayors of the province or districts, who are qualified to participate in the elections; the expense set by the Supreme Election Board is granted to the recipient by the head of the district election board, not more than two times during an election period, in accordance with the signature at the computer or at the list level. Look, I have a Supreme Election Board decision right here in front of me. This Supreme Election Board decision is related to 07/9/2015. The Supreme Election Board and the Supreme Election Board have concluded that the rules set in this Article of Law must be made clear and united in implementing the laws. 29 parties are being thrown. 29 parties start from Justice and Development Party, Anadolu Party, Independent Turkey Party, Republican People's Party, Republican People's Party, Democratic Development Party, Peoples' Democratic Party, Peoples' Democratic Party, National Reunion Reform and Development Party, Turkey's Communist Party, and so 29 parties get the right to participate in the election, and the Supreme Election Board says, "If these 29 parties are asked by the general centre or by the general centre of parties, these lists will be given in the form of boroughs and boroughs, on the condition that they be authorized by the general centre. If it's to be printed out, it's given to parties on the condition that each voter is paid six cents. Now -- so many frames are wide -- is it possible to control 29 parties now that they have these lists of voters? Of course it's a legal right. As long as this clause is here based on legal rights, as long as this law is here, you have to give these lists to all these parties, and when the Supreme Election Board does, you no longer have a chance to follow it. Some parties -- and I'm not saying that they meant to -- even on their websites, and then they took it off, and they realized it wasn't right. We're talking about an environment like this and a situation like this. That's why, if anything is to be done, I'm expressing my belief that this will be resolved with some legal changes, that I'm against the Parliament's investigation, and once again, I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0051par0519	Thank you, Mr. Yavuz. In favour of the group's proposal, the second speaker is İstanbul MP, Mr. Kadir Enis Berberoğlu. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0052par0524	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before we get to the point, I'd like to come to the point by asking God's mercy, his condolences, his patience, for those of us who lost four. Sir, I have made a commitment to the MHP proposal. The reason for this proposal is that it is actually a work of the mind that has ruled this country in the last 14 years. This is because no matter what happens to us, no matter what happens to us, no matter what happens to us, no matter what happens to us, it's not the power that's ever been able to do it. In this case, as the AKP member said earlier, let's say the identity information delivered to the CHP or another opposition party is being stolen. Before I made a promise, I contacted both my party and the NGO authorities to examine the matter. The fact that the Republican People's Party was declared public in 2011, which is -- you know -- is publicly declared, is suspended in the capitals, and has done nothing but repeat it in electronics. Here's the thing: if you know your ID number, if you know your father's name, you'll see from 2011 you'll be able to enter the Republican People's Party website: did you vote once, or did you not? Because the debate at that time -- you know -- was that he was an imaginary voter, or, you know, he was voted for by the dead, and it was not very good for the level of democracy, the quality of this country. This is an attempt by the Republican People's Party and by the YSK to help eliminate these allegations. If you're a voter or a voter, if you live in a big building or a website, we're talking about a system where you can only see the names and last names of other voters like yourself. In addition to this system in 2011, another system has been established by the Republican People's Party, with no information other than the names of the voters who voted in the ballot box. Look, sir, the matter expressed by Mr. Prime Minister yesterday has been leaked due to a party in İzmir, and in response to the allegations that a party has been leaked from its website, of course the legal routes, the investigations of the Police will show us the truth. But I'm going to tell you about another leak, if you know what I mean. I'm very curiously intending to pass this on to you and just inform you. On July 27, 2010, I would like to briefly read a text that İstanbul Security Directorate posted on its website: Lists of addresses, telephones and IDs belonging to 70 million citizens of the Republic of Turkey have been seized. 15 people were taken into custody in the operation. 15 people have been taken into custody after entering public institutions and institutions' databases claiming that citizens have obtained their address, identity and phone information. We're talking about a case that's been going on for six years. We're talking about the identity of 70 million people. It's a story that I've been following in my old line of work, so I've got a little bit more detail on it. Here's the thing: it's interesting what this information is done, given to 600 bar attorneys, sold, commercially. Why? The delay in executive bankruptcy files, due to the economic recession at the time or other activities, led these lawyers to this illegal path. So they used the stolen I.D. info to get access to people's phones, addresses, the names of people in those executive bankruptcy files. These are court-martialed statements. The information I'm sharing with you here is not my own information, it's what's in the open case files. I mean, I don't necessarily want to close that possibility as much as it was leaked through CHP, MPP, or any other party, but I want to point out that there's a gang like this, that's the item. The second issue I would suggest you pay attention to is the content and format of the leaked information. When I say "format" -- you won't see it right now -- I'd like to bring to your attention the format for an identity information that a daily newspaper explains. Look, all the entries in here, on the left, such as the name house, the date of birth, the address, all of the information on the left-hand side, are in English. Now, let's say this information was leaked, or this way, we agreed on it; which programmer would sit down and take the trouble to translate information into English -- for 70 million people or 50 million voters? What can prevent him from using it as it is, or using it in Turkish? Why English? I think that's because it's shared by experts I've consulted and I'd like to pass on to you that this information was stolen from its source, which is one of the most powerful reasons to explain, explain, explain the possibility of coming out of the Ministry of Interior MERNIS. Another thing I'm interested in is the history of information leaked by experts I've consulted with. You know, just last year, there were two separate elections in 2015, and in those two separate elections, the Supreme Election Board shared that information with the parties. If this was a party -- look, my party, I'm not saying another party -- why would it use the old data from 2008 to 2009 when there was data dated 2015? And I'd like to bring this to your attention when you vote on this motion. Now, look, where we're from, if we're going to talk about conspiracy theory, it's a terrible point. There is no one in the government at this time -- no one in the government -- that would affect the transparency of the elections -- but our Minister of Justice used a statement, saying: "After this leak, after this leak, this information will be effective in this range of information from the commercial knowledge of these citizens to their private knowledge, we are thinking of restricting the sharing of information with political parties, as the Supreme Election Council has been so far. If the result is to be explained by conspiracy theory -- the information leak -- I too have the right to ask myself the question: Could this ancient 2008 information be part of a vast conspiracy that would affect the transparency of the upcoming elections? Because it doesn't make any other sense. Look, I repeat, I want to go over two things over and over again: first of all, the format of this information is very suspicious. That's not information from political parties. You don't find such words, such words, such as English words, or English words, in normal programs. Second of all, no political party has ever announced it on their website, so it's not your mother's maiden name or her birth date. It's not necessary anyway, just to see if you have a voter there, one, see which polls you vote with, two. Why else would a political party share information? That kind of detailed information could've been stolen from the source. At least in view of this suspicion, I ask you to make your decision. And who needs old data when it's 2015? There's got to be an answer to that question. But if you turn your back on all these questions and decide to limit the data that only goes to political parties, then this Parliament, the Supreme Assembly, will have the right to be asked: is the outcome of all these discussions, in the coming period -- at this date -- to make a possible choice less transparent, more manipulative, more suspicious? I salute the High Council, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0053par0538	Thank you, Mr. Berberoglu. The second and final speaker against the group's proposal is Mr. Hakan Sergeant. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0054par0543	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. We have all learned with great regret that the personal data of many of our citizens had somehow been leaked, as it appeared in the press not too long ago. Of course, personal data are data that make a person learnable, which can be determined, such as name, last name, signature, eye color, license plate number, bank account. You know, we discussed a very serious law here about a week, two weeks ago, and we've all passed a very serious law here, and we've discussed the Protection of Personal Data Act together, and we've actually adopted a law that would put this data in a certain order, in a discipline, in a period when our personal data was flying through the air in Turkey. We hope and expect that at least once this law is in effect, I think we'll travel a certain distance, along with predicting that the next personal data can't be used, that it can't be leaked, that they'll be subjected to heavy criminal sanctions. Of course, along with this law, we're specifically identifying who's in charge of personal data. We've formed the Personal Data Protection Board, you know. About the record of sensitive personal data, about the record, about it being recorded, about its holding, we've been computing to this law, and we've brought in some detailed arrangements specifically on how to preserve the personal data obtained by the data manager, and we've brought in some responsibilities. Dear friends, as it is clear from the Supreme Election Board, the President of the Election Board said that these data, about 49 million,600 thousand, correspond with the data on the voter register in the 2009 local elections. So this data contains information about the voter register, name, last name, address, identity number, parents' name, date of birth. However, in addition to this, he explained that the data was not leaked from their system in any way, as a result of their own investigations. So, in this sense, the Supreme Election Board -- I particularly want to stress -- is a theme that has been met by both the fair attitude and successful practices of our republic, especially after multi-party elections. In every election period, even though there were a number of accusations, a number of labels, a number of accusations, it also came to light that they were in no way connected to reality. Now, of course, there is a change in the 47th amendment to Law on Voter Logs in 2000, where Law 298 is expected to be given to political parties that have the right to participate in the election, authorized by the Supreme Election Council, along with this change in 2000. Therefore, the High Election Board must share its data with political parties who want it. And, as a matter of fact, starting in 2007, the Supreme Election Board is continuing its share. What's fundamental here is that, of course, all of our personal data, but especially in terms of data shared by the Supreme Election Board, is that political parties are more sensitive to this subject and to their attitude when compared with those who are using it as maliciously, at the time of modern technological opportunities, rapid communications, cyber attacks, information technologies.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0055par0549	We never said a word, that's all.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0054par0550	So here, in fact, our Ministry has made a satisfactory statement. I especially want to share with you the following in terms of the explanations: once, he has determined that there was no cyber attack, there was no infiltration. This means that someone took it and gave it to them." It means you guys. Secondly, the websites that publish these data to ensure the privacy of our citizens' identity information have been identified, and legal work has been launched to prevent these publications from being made. According to reports, these data were first released from a Romanian-based site. As part of our national cyber-security work, our country has also launched attempts to prevent its broadcast by contact with Romania by activating international co-operation with the National Cyber Events Centre. The Ministry and Cyber Action Center have contacted the YSK and Population Affairs General Directorate and also studied the infrastructure of information technologies and information systems, which contain information, and has also launched studies on strengthening these structures against possible attacks. My dear friends, Congressmans, there's a case. Our personal data has somehow fallen into the hands of evildoers. However, together with the Law on Protection of Personal Data, which was issued about two weeks ago, we all predicted that at least these matters would be disciplined. At this point, of course, our republic's attorney's office has launched an investigation into the people who have been charged with the crime. We don't want to say that this party or this party, we're never going to do this. So, I salute you all with these feelings and wish you good work.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0056par0556	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0057par0557	I want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit01spe0056par0558	Congressmans, I'm going to submit the National Movement Party Group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0056par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The resolution of the National Party for Action Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who refuse... the proposal is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 12/4/2016 Tuesday (now) meeting, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 12 April 2016, İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioğlu Demir and his friends (1684 rows) suggested that Syrian girls who had taken refuge in Turkey be married at an early age and that the parliamentary inquiry motion given to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to prevent the investigation of second spouses should be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and be read in the same session of the talks on Tuesday 12/4/2016. The first speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is İstanbul MP Mr. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir. Mr. Timberson, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0058par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, it's hard to be a woman in the world, but it's much harder to be a woman in Turkey. You know how we always say what bus we take, what streets we choose to walk on the night, what we wear, where we work, every step of the way we think about male sovereignty, and we weigh almost every move we make? Now that it's so internal, we won't even notice all this behavior. I know a lot of women in Turkey feel the same way these days that we have to think more about every step of the way. On the other hand, we also know that the most revolutionary attempts take place during the most intense times of pressure, and it's capable of tightening the ropes as long as it can. Moreover, such times of oppression make women stronger, not only against those who impose power, but also against the injustice they face by those who stand by them. Conservative powers show similar features all over the world. They hide everything they've done, the mining accident, the money they've made from the fields they've opened, the sexual abuse, behind the so-called social values. The moral bat gets up on people's backs. We said that child abuse can happen anywhere as long as there is no preventive and comprehensive policy against child abuse, no record of abusers, no education by educators in this field, no immediate embrace of abuse and violence, and no feeling that justice is being put into place at the children's rehabilitation centers unless they can benefit from a single therapeutic therapy. But abuse and sexual violence feed on power relationships. A government that protects the backs of some with fellow sergeants and makes them feel that what they're doing with the power they have in their political line will go unpunished, and so will sexual abuse and violence against women. See, he put a picture of President Erdoğan on his Facebook profile, Deputy Director of Gazi Anadolu High School, and Director of the Malatya Green Yurt Representative Nevzat Turan, what does he say of his social media account on April 5th? For God's sake, in which part of our beautiful country is there such a people's game with boys and girls. Unfortunately, our young people, our children, are being played in the name of folk games. What parents want their 16-17-year-old daughter to hold a man's hand, to play knee to knee, eye to eye, arm to arm, arm to arm, to move around, and now I point out in particular: Would the man who committed murder for Namusu allow it? I don't think so. What part of such a public game is appropriate for Islam? Is it lawful to wear traditional clothes? Yes, once again, I would like to point out that he has taken the conservative morality of power behind him, fearlessly encouraging people to commit murder of women under the name of ▪namus. He says: "Will the man who killed for Namusu allow it?" I don't think so. Neither the government nor public officials have the right to point out Islam as a form of government. It is the Constitution that brings the citizens together. It is the initiative of individuals to live up to the rituals of religion as long as it is in accordance with the law. As a public official, no one can point to the rules of any religion. An educator should have known that for years, the stories, the dances that the public carried, were actually telling a lot about the economic and social relations of society. People's games tell us stories about how those people lived. For example, in the game of hiche, it is said that women make goat hairs and sheep hairs with a tool called "testy" (e.g. wool). Delilo is a game of joy and celebration. In Thrace alone, the number of public dances that have been identified and compiled is around 120-130. Sometimes the language is forgotten, but the people's games and songs remain. But the assistant manager's exit is not unique, my friends. Expert educators have told us many times how folk games have been prevented. For example, the kids work all year long, the chief of territorial education comes in, finds it immoral, and the kids can't even get on the stage. We have also painfully witnessed the hypocritical morality of those who impose morality on the people in Karaman. That's what I want to ask you. We've agreed to set up a commission on March 24th against child abuse, and there's still no commission, why? Have all the parties reported their members to the commission? Why can't we members start commissioning by reading on the General Assembly? This irresponsibility raises serious doubts about policies against abused children. The Council of Europe's Convention on Children's Protection Against Sexual Collateral and Inflict requires immediate fulfillment of cases related to the interview with the child and abuse without unjust delays. Children's matters must be considered first. I don't know if it's surprising to you that the commission hasn't started to operate yet. Besides, the Ensar Foundations will now be protected by the police for 24 hours. Did something happen to the foundations and you're taking them into protective custody? Why isn't the commission still working for the kids while Ensar protects their foundation? We conduct the investigation quietly. He says the Parliament must be informed of the investigation and rehabilitation of children who have suffered such a reaction. Therefore, I'd like to ask the Speaker to inform the House of this matter, especially by having a meeting with the concerned ministers. Unfortunately, as I said in the beginning, it's hard to be a woman and a child in a country where men's violence is praised so much. We've been talking about the problems of refugees and immigrant women for a long time. We've made some questions about it, and we haven't heard back yet. On the stand, we repeatedly stated that women were forced into sex work, married as children, forced to be second wives. As the flood of migration from Syria reached its peak in 2014, we began to hear much more often that girls, one of the forms of gender-based violence, were married at an early age and women were forced to marry as second wives. The financial difficulties that refugee women and girls face, lack of work permits, do hard work for a very low wage without social security, child labor or lack of employment are key reasons for such marriages. Women and children live under a serious threat of physical and sexual violence. Many refugees are exposed to sexual assault and harassment by their women's bosses, they can't even collect their wages, they're afraid to go to the police, they think the refugee status in Turkey will be affected. There's not a single public institution that works specifically on violence and abuse of immigrant and refugee women, employees turn down women who have not been trained in this matter, asylum seekers. The only institution that can share information on the early marriage of girls and the fact that women are forced to marry as second wives with full public opinion is the chairman of the Dianet Affairs Office, if he is watching their marriage, because these marriages are happening in an imam wedding -- in a nail. Hence, women are unable to take advantage of any of the benefits of marital ties. After convincing young women and children to marry polygamy with financial difficulties or single parents, it is also common to force sex work through interim marriages. In particular, it is referred to as one of the usual agendas of everyday life in the border provinces. Many older men go from many provinces, such as Ankara, Samsun, to a jeweler, and buy a ring, a bracelet, a pair of earrings, and unfortunately, they take young Syrian girls in exchange for them. We're not talking about... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I ask for a positive discrimination?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0059par0034	Mr. Kerestecioglu, I'm just trying to discriminate against female lawmakers, and I'll give you one more minute. Please complete.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0058par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. It is now imperative that information on how many perpetrators have been arrested and punished in the matter of human trafficking be disclosed immediately. Such marriages are considered legitimate, even helpful, and being tolerated condemns women to a more fragile position by legitimizing these marriages. Men abuse women in their first marriage as well as their second marriage. I mean, people who want to change the women they're with like objects, who send them back to the hospital, what else is going on? I want to read you a woman's story. A woman named Hayryeh says: "I haven't had a tooth in my mouth in 15 years, and she said to me: " I'm going to get your teeth done. " Yes, in return, she came to a Syrian sand, and she is wifeing my husband and my husband. She's just a little girl, and we can't even hear that girl's voice. So, lawmakers, let's stop witnessing this and please support our research motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0060par0041	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Ali Özkaya, MP of Afyonkarahisar against the People's Democratic Party group proposal. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Ozkaya.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0061par0046	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have taken a pledge from the People's Democratic Party on the research proposal of Syrian girls who had taken refuge in Turkey at an early age in their marriage and on behalf of the EC PARTI Group against this motion. I salute you all. Dear MPs, I ask God's mercy once again to our soldiers, our policemen, our guards, our citizens, who have been martyred by the terrorist organization starting in July 2015 by the DEAS, YPG, DHKP-C and all terrorist organizations in our country's East and Southeast Anatolia. Yesterday, in the treasonous attack on our police station in Diyarbakir Hanijah, he asks for God's mercy on our soldiers who have been killed, asking for immediate healing for our wounded, for those who support their acts of terror, for those who promote it, for those who support it, for those who support it, for those who support it, for those who support it, for those who support it, for the High Assembly to do what it is necessary and to do what it is necessary to do. Precious lawmakers have been established by the Ministry of Interior to carry out the protection and implementation of foreign entry into Turkey, stays in Turkey and leave Turkey and all operations in Turkey, as of 11 April 2013, and the Office of the Finnish Immigration Administration of the Ministry for the protection of victims of human trafficking. There has been a heavy flow of migration to our country as a result of internal turmoil in Syria, which began in 2011. In this scope, studies have been conducted in order to encourage the Syrian people in our country to register, inform them of their rights and obligations, and to complete their registration proceedings, particularly the cities in which the Syrians live in denseness, while 2 million 749, 410 Syrian foreign nationals have been taken into temporary protection as of April 7, 2016. After registering these Syrian foreign nationals, they began to take advantage of health services and all services. Today, HDP has proposed research on the early marriage and secondary marriage of Syrian asylum seekers. Very respected lawmakers, we now have a motion to investigate the same issue; there is a commission on the investigation of the family integrity and the measures to strengthen the family institution, and I am the Speaker of this Commission. This commission, established by the joint votes of the four parties, served in different parts of our country, went and studied at its place; and Şanlıurfa did it, and the Church did it. We attended a meeting here in the church with our fellow deputies. Antalya, Bursa; this weekend we were in Istanbul for two days, and yesterday we were in Düzce. Thus, we searched all over Turkey for events affecting family integrity. In particular, sir, we have just been told, that there is a second marriage with children from Syria, that there is an early marriage with children, that there is a second marriage with children and that there is a second wife. We have traveled all over the church, we have gone out on the streets, we have asked one by one with fellow members of each party, we have asked the shop, and we have said, "Is there such an incident around you?" We have seen that there is no such event in the Church with the alliance. It's not fair to tell our people that there is something like this, something like this, something like this, something like this, that doesn't exist. Individual, expressed in thousands... in a place where I've just said 2,700,2 million,750,000 Syrians, we've only encountered one incident in the second marriage, but we haven't seen anything else. Our friends from the other opposition party asked the same question. So I don't think it's right and proper to accuse people unfairly and bring them to the agenda of the House as if they had a non-community issue. That's why I think it's an unfair claim and an indictment.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0062par0053	Who's being wronged?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0061par0054	I find it useful to give short information about what has been done with those who have come from Syria. AFAD and Migration Administration General Directorate are working in a serious way. The population outside the temporary housing centre is being registered by the Immigration Administration. Syrian women take advantage of Turkey's shelters if they are exposed to violence. Women, men, children, if they're exposed to a crime, they don't ask about their citizenship or age or gender. The Turkish Penal Code is a citizen of every crime committed in Turkey, and does not act according to it. Prosecutors of the Republic are strictly involved in this if a child sees that the Turkish Penal Code has been subjected to sexual assault and sexual abuse, such as Article 102 and 103. We need to know that there are some problems here that come from work and its nature. The most important issue is the civil law difference between Syria and Turkey. Because the age of marriage in Syria... and plural marriage is a law. For reasons such as the lack of population records, the lack of population wallets, and the absence of records of records from Turkey, sometimes in marriage, the relevant administrations suffer, and many times on the basis of a person's statement. It is said that since these marriages were performed with religious weddings and Imam weddings, let them report to us according to this. Those who are friends, there is no such duty, such a record is not made, such a system does not exist. Only municipalities record this, but the village keeps records of the chiefs' population. If a person wants to have a religious marriage, he will perform a religious marriage under the regulation of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. Therefore, there is no way to find information on this matter from the Ministry of Religious Affairs. Let the president of the Ministry of Religious Affairs record such a thing. If you say so, then you must speak under a separate title. For this reason, I have received information as part of the preaching and preaching of the Head of Religious Affairs. In particular, he says: "It is not right for young children to be married before they reach the age of distinguishing puberty. " Our Civil Law has agreed to the age of 17 on this issue. If it is so mandatory, and the child has a serious benefit in the family, a judge's decision has opened the door for marriage at the age of 17. Other than that, marriage is not a rule that is made before the age of 17. The President of Religious Affairs -- he has no responsibility in this framework -- does not keep such a record. Concerning citizens from Syria, they also benefit from the shelters in Turkey, especially if they were sexually abused. From Alo 183 (Alo 183) in Turkey, experts from this unit who speak Arabic against violence against women have been assigned, based on the fact that these experts communicate with them, and work to direct them against them and to help them with investigations. In our country, the AFAD, AFKEN (AFKEN's Intermittent City Management System), especially there, has been a special effort to make records of women there, to read, age, women's participation in neighborhood security and administration. When we visited Elbeyli and Öncepınar Camps in Milis, we really enjoyed that women were involved in those processes, that the children had received such beautiful education, that our government had taken seriously advantage of these opportunities that our government had provided. I think this motion is being made every day in the framework of a new agenda, except for the purpose of the research motion, rather the opposition, which is taking part in the areas of the current research commission. I don't think the motion will produce a healthy outcome, I think it will undermine the work in the same field, and I think that this motion will be rejected until the work of our continuing commission is completed, and I declare that we will vote against the motion, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0063par0061	Thank you, Mr. Ozkaya.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0064par0062	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0063par0063	Mr. Demirel, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0064par0064	Mr. President, since we've made it seem as though there were events that didn't exist in his or her or her speech, we've made this motion unnecessary, and she's been taunting the public that we're accusing people, and we demand a say in this matter.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0063par0065	Yeah. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0064par0067	Miss Flitz will speak.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0063par0068	Mr. Kerestecioglu, one moment, I give you my word from the stand. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0065par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Orator, I believe you're not fully aware of the opposition's mission because the opposition talks about every agenda every day, and that's the role of the opposition, which is to discuss the agendas that exist and the things that you don't bring to the agenda. For one thing, the commission you're talking about is not a commission with an agenda in any way. Why are divorces happening? Let's strengthen the condition of the family. A commission established by the name of the family, which we had proposed was to set up a commission on violence, about violence against the woman, and this was the commission set up as an alternative. The agenda is not for young Syrian girls to be subjected to violence or forced to marry. In addition, by going to the church one day, you will not be able to travel there, nor will any commissioner be present. If you really want to do this, if you really want to become a successor, then you can also invite journalists and NGOs who have worked there for years, and listen to them, and I really think you might get a chance to see what they bring up today. I think it's a very unfortunate explanation, especially because the civil law in Syria gives multiple marriage opportunities -- if I don't get it wrong -- that's what you've said -- because that's really, really not why. We're talking about children, not adult women, we're talking about children, we're talking about children in particular, and besides immigrants who are registered, there are so many people in Syria other than the immigrants you visited in the camps, there are so many people in our country that there's no way you can have them on record and what they're going through. Therefore, the matter must be taken seriously. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] A commission needs to be made with that particular name. I mean, we don't want to lock them up, but rather, we demand a commission to bring people's victims to the agenda.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0066par0079	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0067par0080	Mr. President, according to Article 69...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0066par0081	Mr. Özkaya, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0067par0082	He said it differently.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0068par0083	No, sir, that's not what happened.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0067par0084	I mean, you didn't understand, you didn't tell me... he obviously picked on me like that.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0069par0085	You want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0067par0086	Yes, according to Article 69...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0069par0087	Mr. Özkaya, there's no teasing, but...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0067par0088	Now that mine has been accepted, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0070par0089	A lawyer can't even describe teasing.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0069par0090	Okay, here you go. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0071par0093	Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers, in essence, of course the opposition will make a motion to investigate every issue, give a reason to speak, give a reason to speak; we have no objection to that; but once again, once again, it is not right to say the other one before it's finished. That's what I'm criticizing. Second, if we're going to set up a commission, the same commission will go and ask the interested ones again. We went to the church, we went to Uruguay, we went to Antalya, we went to Burma; Giresun, the Army, Tripoli, Istanbul, Düzce, where we did not travel in Turkey -- our friends went to Germany last week, this week another place -- so the commission will stay there for a day, and there will not be a month. When this commission stays one day, our new commission stays for a month?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0072par0095	He'll stay a month if he has to, and he'll stay a week.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0071par0096	We talked to all of the civil society there, we talked to all of the press, we talked to the family judges, we talked to the gendarmes, we talked to the police; we went out to civil society, we went out to ordinary people, we talked to the people on the street, we talked to everyone. The point is, you're wrongfully accusing the people and the people of the Church. Really, I've traveled all over Turkey; there are 93, 000 people in the church, and there are 17,000 immigrants in the world that are so peaceful and so happy that you can't find any other city.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0073par0098	The bomb goes off every day, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0071par0099	We've seen it. We don't find it right to falsely accuse these people.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0074par0100	Why should the churchmen be accused?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0075par0101	You've made the Militia the target of the bombs. Ten rockets drop every day.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0071par0102	You'll set up a new commission, set up a different commission, set it up on a different subject, suggest it, but there's no point in talking about it again. Third: Sir, there is a war in Syria. People come out, they come in, there's no ID on them, there's no information. I got married. He says, "I want to get married." That's my code. These people are not citizens of the Republic of Turkey. You need to find a system for that person, that person who says, "I'm getting married." When you record this, the person involved... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's no way the little boy is ever getting married. As long as a Syrian child is under 17 years of age, the younger child will never be married under international contracts that we agree to; this is the case, this is the truth. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0076par0108	Thank you, Mr. Ozkaya.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0077par0109	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0076par0110	Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0077par0111	I'm a Congressman of this House, and I've been accused of accusing the Militia, and I have no intention of doing that, so I'd like to speak of bullying.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0076par0112	Well, here you go, Mr. Kerestecioglu, two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0077par0115	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, especially in the last few days, when the bombs have been dropped that are not known to the Church, it's likely our people will appreciate who they blame and who they don't blame. We have no intention of blaming the Christians, and I have given only one example from the Church. The Syrians are all over Turkey, and they're unregistered, and there's no way you can track them. Therefore, a special commission must be established. There's no commission on that. The people there are getting married because there is no civil law, not because there is another law. There is no such thing. Since women here can't work, because they can't work, because they can't go to the police, because they're being harassed by their bosses, they have to do something like this. I repeat, we're talking about girls, and protecting children is our most important, primary mission. It's the same for the Syrians, it's the same for the Turks. Therefore, we once again express that we want this commission to be established. We have no intention of accusing the churches specifically or defaming them. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0078par0119	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0079par0120	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0078par0121	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0079par0122	For the record, it's 15 o'clock. The General Assembly began at 00. At 5:30 p.m., there were no government members present at the General Assembly. It's the government's right, of course, to give the answers to a case that's not sanctioned, that happened in the church -- our Afyon MP says everything about every member of parliament. The church MP doesn't really have an answer to that either. I wonder where this government is. Again, where is the government?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0080par0123	Here, here.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0079par0124	Where's the government? I wanted to put that on the record, so I made a promise. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0081par0126	Thank you, Mr. Altay. You've made your call, and I hope that an authorized minister from the government will come here and brief us. The second speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party's group proposal is Mr. Nurşat Altaca Kayışoğlu. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Kayışoglu.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0082par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, first of all, I offer my condolences to the families of all of our soldiers who were killed yesterday because of the attack on the police station in Diyarbakir Hanifa, and to the wounded I hope it will be the last. I have made a commitment to the People's Democratic Party Group to investigate the early marriage of Syrian girls and the marriage of second wife. According to the report released in March 2016 by ECPAT. According to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, 4.5 per cent of Syrian children are getting married at an early age and at a child's age. I'm afraid families sometimes go through marriage as a way to prevent them from being harassed or raped in camps or dragged into prostitution. It's not really marriage; it's more like selling these kids for 2,000, 3,000 liras. In countries where victims of war go as refugees, unfortunately, economically, sexually, they are once again exploited and victimized as labor. For example, because of the increased rent -- because of the increase of refugees -- you know, rents are rising in some areas -- give the Syrians their daughter, we'll get even. Men call women from home when there's even the slightest argument in the house. Men call me Syrian, anyway. They call me Syrian. And their daughters are seen as goods and sold, and that's natural. In this land, where the Republic has not completed its blessing, the revolution of enlightenment, the government, its morality, its spirituality, everyone in this land, unfortunately, is paying the price for the error of its attempt to fit humanity only in religious education. Dear MPs, look, again, in February 2015, the Turkish Bar Association went to the region and published a report on refugees, and here is information about the marriage of girls. According to this, the visits in Urbana are reported to have been taken as second wives of Syrian women, and concretely the circumstances of the delegation's testimony have been determined, and according to this, it is said: The Syrian girls are getting married to an imam wedding, and they are having a lot of trouble. 2) Because of these marriages, the family union is falling apart and domestic violence is spreading because women don't want sand, they don't want second wives, and it's a problem that comes back into the family. So one dimension of the problem is little girls, the other is women who live in our country. 3) The Imam wedding girls have no social security, no legal rights, and after a while they are thrown out on the street with all sorts of excuses. 4) These girls who are thrown into the streets fall into the hands of bad people and are dragged into prostitution. 5) When their daughter is expelled, they fall into the hands of criminal organizations and evil workers of human trafficking. These are in the report of the Turkish Bar Association. Although the exploitation of these girls who were married to them as second, third, and sometimes fourth wives is called the child trafficking, in fact, for sexual exploitation. The AKP guy just said: "We went to the Church, we asked, we asked, there are no second marriages." I submit this report to the Turkish Bar Association, which can be obtained from the Bar Association. We've just spoken to my Haluk deputy, who was recently in Urbana. The number of files has increased in the last three years, there are 300,000 troubled cases, and divorce cases over the past three years are 13 percent of all these files. The reason these divorce cases are increasing is because these young girls are taken as second wives. It's enough to fight these things, just to be human, because the same thing can happen to anyone who's human. Especially in countries with such incompetent governances in foreign policy. You know, there's a story about a Syrian scientist, let me remind you again. A famous professor lives with his family in Syria, on a site he drew, in colorful houses. He's got a lot of successful kids, he's got a lot of income, he's got no problem with anybody, and one night he gets hit by a missile, his family, his kids, his property, everything. He's an inventor, too. In Istanbul, he can't pay his rent, with cancer... we're moving with him. So you can have homes, you can have cars, you can have happy family lives, you can have children, they can be happy, but in one night, you can lose everything, as Assad is Esed. That's why you put yourself in their shoes. Put your children in the shoes of those girls, God forbid. I say we reassess what we can do for the girls who are being lined up and sold like fruit in the grocery store, leaving all our political views aside. There's a video of Syrian girls being marketed, you know. The girls sitting on the couch, the buyer comes in and asks: "How old is the buyer?" The seller says: "He has just finished his work. Does he want to come to Istanbul?" And he shows kindness in his own way! The seller answers on behalf of all of them. He says they all want to come to Istanbul. I'm afraid that's what we're dealing with. Yeah, they're called 12-16-year-old peanuts, 17-20-year-old cherries, and then apples, melons, and they're sold to girls and women. The year 2016 continues to negotiate the Middle Ages on the territory of the Republic of Turkey, which aims to reach the level of modern civilization. Even though the shame is yours, we are prepared to take the responsibility and work together for those children to come up with a solution. Virginia Woolf says I don't have a country as a woman. I don't want a country as a woman. As a woman, the whole world is my country. I say, let's make it a land of women and children and start by taking this whole world and taking this step from here. Yes, the AKP guy just said: "There are people who know Arabic in the 183 Line of Violence." But we know that for Syrian women, when they're called that line for women who have been hit by violence, the answer is just like this: "O is not a woman, she is a refugee." I'm afraid that's the point of view. These facts show that we opened the gates to the Syrians, yes, and we showed off a lot, but these doors that we open to people do not prevent the destruction of the war, which unfortunately causes them to be exploited around here, to experience more destruction. I want to finish with a poem by Sunay Akin. He says: As for him who is cold in the rain, At least it's inside me. And we couldn't prevent this destruction, with the wrong policies and so on. In fact, we've caused a lot of harm to these children, these girls, those people, but at least we can be the bridge to them, and as they've just been told, there's no such thing as a second wife. Because, for that, as I said, we all have the possibility of facing these situations. Some people in the world feel responsible for all the suffering in the world, but there are some people who feel no responsibility even though they cause it. I say to all of you that anyone with a conscience should feel responsible for every pain and work to find a solution. Thank you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0083par0168	Thank you, Mr. Kayishoglu. The second and final speaker against the group proposal is İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Boiler. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0084par0173	Mr. President, I've been promised against the HDP group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, it's Happy Birthday Week. Therefore, the Prophet (SAV) wishes to be moralized by the fine morality of his Lord (SAV) and congratulate you on the Happy Birth Week. At the same time, we were shaken by pain again. I ask God's mercy for our soldiers who were killed in the traitorous attack in Hani district of Diyarbakır. We have wounded, and I wish you a speedy recovery. And I curse this treacherous attack, this terror. I'm saying I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Dear MPs, I have stated that I have made a promise against the HDP group proposal. Mr. Ali Ozkaya, our Afyonkarahisar MP, has been briefed on this with both technical and legal details. So, in order not to go into detail and again, I will not go back into those titles in order to use time with value, but I especially want to point out that as a member of the commission on the preservation of the integrity of the family and the investigation of divorce, the strengthening of the family, as a member of the commission in that area, both in Kilis. So today, we're also going to discuss an important law this week. We were in the 6th chapter of the first chapter of the law on paying our underage and needy elders, 15,000 police purchases, again social workers, auditing. This week, hopefully, we're predicting his work. In this sense, by stating that I agree with the sensitivity of HDP's group proposal, I must point out that this week's special agenda is that for fifty-sixty years our people, our nation have been eagerly awaiting this process of visa-free passage to Europe. Therefore, we will adopt 12 international contracts until May, and I believe the opposition parties will contribute substantially to the adoption of these precious laws with their views and contributions. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0085par0179	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. Congressmans, I would like you to vote on the proposal of the People's Democratic Party Group...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0086par0181	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0085par0182	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. Congressmans, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal for the 19th Amendment. I'll read it and process it and put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 12/4/2016 Tuesday (now) meeting, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. In order to investigate the problems of the production of teas in the Eastern Black Sea Region by İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoglu and his friends, the parliamentary research motion for Turkey's Grand National Assembly was submitted on 27/1/2016 to determine policies and measures that should be taken. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations on Tuesday 12/4/2016 and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, the first speaker is İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu. Mr. Bachelor, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0087par0198	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group to discuss a motion that is important to our country today. As is known, older teas are produced in Tripoli, Artvin and Giresun, especially Rize. Approximately 1 million to 1,300 thousand tons of age tea is produced, and 250-260,000 tonnes of dry tea is produced from tea. 210,000 families in the region are working on age tea agriculture, and the only livelihood of these people, these families, is almost tea, and there's no livelihood but tea. It contributes a great deal to the region's economy this age is the production of tea and then the production of dry tea. It contributes to around 5-6 billion Turkish economies. There's about $2 billion coming into the area due to age tea. These teas are processed in 46 tea factories belonging to ÇAYKUR, and 55 per cent are processed by the state in ÇAYKUR, while the remaining 45 per cent are processed by the private sector. Now, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the prime minister of the period, came to Rize, before a tea season and said: "We are making payments on CHAKUR. We're taking tea this month, we're paying for it at the end of the month, we're paying for it next month, but we're not getting involved. So he means -- that's what it is now -- we take 50 percent of tea, 55 percent of it, we work it, we pay for it, but we don't interfere with 45 percent of it. That's not the job, my dear friends. The region is being given the permission of the state to farm tea. With the government's permission, you can farm and process. So you can't say, "Yes, the private sector is free trade, no matter what it does." Look, the situation is this: in the East Black Sea District, yes, last year the state gave $1.70, but the private sector bought tea for $1.30, 40 cents, and interestingly, when it will pay for its tea, how it will pay for it, how it will pay for it, with money or dry tea, none of it is clear. When there are any problems, there is no agreement between you and the private sector, which gives you a compass called "tea ration"; and under it, the Istanbul courts are responsible in case of a dispute. In addition, there are also daily quotas in the region that the private sector has applied every season for tea, which is the tea per acre during that exile. That's why it's almost torture to collect the tea and deliver it to the factory. I said it's the only livelihood in the region, but it's no longer a living because the land is divided. There are three or five acres of tea per family, and it's impossible to make a living with this tea. There is no other business in the region; there is no factory, no industry, except for tea factories. Tea factories are also automated, and 30 people now do what 1,000 people used to do. There's no other industry. It's called tourism or something, but as there's no infrastructure investment in tourism, the streams that are extremely important for regional tourism have reached the point of ending with the hees, the pedestrians, and the valleys with the story of the green road. There's an organic tea effort, but unfortunately, the chemical fertilizer is constantly blocked by the lobby. Of course, nothing was done in the area, and I don't mean nothing was done in Rize. Some things were done, roads were made. The Ovit Tunnel will open, link south, Rize, these are good, but there's no production. There are no people left in the villages, no goods on these roads, no trade. So the question remains, what will people live on? Rize is ejaculated, so as Rize came, the Tripoli, Artvin, the Silver House, Giresun, those areas are completely empty. What about these people? He's coming to the major cities. So, how are these people going to live in the big cities? Now all know that the stone of Istanbul is not gold. So, have such people been answered questions about traffic, infrastructure, for such large crowds to live in large cities? It wasn't given. So, how does this work? This is basically going to happen, my dear friends: These people should be able to eat where they were born, to live here. Here, for the region, especially for Rize, Artvin and Tripoli, we've submitted a tea research proposal to help people reach prosperity where they were born, where they can live humanly, provide for their children's children, to investigate tea, to determine their problems, to take precautions, and we expect support for this motion here. Dear lawmakers, even if all problems with tea are resolved in the region, it is impossible for the people living there to live on tea alone because of the division of the land. Therefore, the problems of this region must be addressed as a whole. How can tea be best assessed and what else can be done with tea? For example, it's an important subject to consider with tea -- which CHAKUR supports, but I just said, once again, it's being blocked by chemical fertilizer lobbying -- for example, the organic tea issue. Organic tea can completely save the region. Organic tea not only saves the region, but also contributes to the development of tourism in the region. Because chemical fertilizers that have been in use for over 50 years have left the soil of the region out of the ground, so its traditional products are no longer growing. The tourist will not come to the East Black Sea for the sea, he will come for the plateaus, he will come for the valleys, and he will come to taste the flavors there. And for that to happen, the soil must be saved. What are the obstacles to organic tea? Why can't organic tea be developed? These things need to be investigated. There's an important matter, dear lawmakers. There are different laws about tea at different times. These began in 1924, and have come to this day. The last time, under a law in 1984, a monopoly was lifted in tea, and the private sector was allowed to run tea, but there was no regulation on these matters. Now, a tea law is being passed, and in the region, especially in Rize, people are very concerned because this tea law is being enforced behind closed doors. He came to Minister Rize, but he was behind closed doors, he didn't meet with NGOs, he didn't approach the opposition, he didn't approach the media. We're very curious about what you're doing with this tea law. Our concern is that the hearing we've received, as well as the drafts that have been prepared earlier, is that a tea market board is being created. Now, when we say the tea market board, we remember the tobacco market board, the sugar market board. After the Sugar Market Board, after the Tobacco Market Board, you know that Turkey's tobacco and sugarism is over, my dear friends. Yes, we're not going to privatize it. They're going to connect it to this board. The local people, the Rizens, they're looking at it as a big concern. The privatisation of tea, my dear friends, is the privatisation of tea, the privatisation of tea, the end of the region. If people are eating bread there right now, if they're eating tea, the teamaker is making tea, so either he's eating tea factory or he's retired from tea, my dear friends. If that doesn't happen, a tea market board like the Candy Market Board will be released and the tea will be finished and the people there won't be able to live there because there's nothing else. They've been telling us for many years that your tea is inferior, you make it very expensive, you don't have to produce it. It's been coming for decades, so you don't have to make it, we'll sell it very cheaply. Yeah, that's the point. See, Turkey is the number one country in the world in terms of dry tea consumption. Turkey has 300,000 tons a year, perhaps a little more tea markets, and the world's tea monopoly is staring at it. So you don't have to make us tea, you don't have to make us tea, you're costing us 2 dollars for this tea, we'll give you 70 cents, 80 cents, and a dollar for it, and they say, "Don't produce it." Dear MPs, what we're talking about isn't just Rize and tea, we're talking about a conversation about the livelihood of 1,250,000, 1,300,000 people in that area. So you're not going anywhere by taking tea from the outside, leaving it to the world's tea monopoly. There's something else that's important. Of course, there must be an arrangement for tea, and there is a need for tea law, but in this law, it is necessary to stop saying that the courts in the private sector are in Istanbul. The private sector, especially those who are truly honest, should be able to trade as they should, and measures that will not take away people's rights. I'm saying that Rize should be fully treated as a whole, with tourism, with industry, with sailing, and measures should be taken accordingly, and I expect support for the motion. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0088par0216	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. Mr. Erhan is the first speaker against the proposal. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0089par0221	Thank you. Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the CHP Group to investigate the issues of age production in the Eastern Black Sea Region, to open parliamentary research in order to determine policy and measures. I salute the General Assembly. Last week we had three sacred months. I pray that the Lord God will bless us with the moons of wine and wine and lead us to Ramadan. Happy Birthday Week starts this week. May the Lord of the universe be blessed with a thousand blessings. May God bless our nation for his sake. Again, we have martyrs and wounded, I'm afraid. In Diyarbakir Hani, there were 3 martyrs and 38 soldiers injured last night as a result of a vicious attack. I wish our martyrs the grace of God, and the speedy healing of our wounded. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Now, before we go to tea, I would like to very briefly share with you a few problems and issues for agricultural production throughout our country. For one thing, we know that efficiency across agriculture is very low. The basis for this is low scale in businesses, low use of capital and mechanization, low use of unconscious fertilizer, lack of watering opportunities. As a result, agriculture has a low growth rate. In fact, for years, our country has been overexisting in agriculture, giving more in foreign trade, and in recent years, we've been opening up in foreign trade, agricultural production foreign trade. Unfortunately, this is due to the failure of decisions to address structural problems in agriculture. Now, when you say tea production, of course, the East Black Sea comes to mind. In particular, we have five counties here, of course, with a significant amount of Rize dominant, but tea is being produced in Artvin, Giresun, Tripoli and the Army. Now, first, I would like to share with you a few indicators of how the population and production structure of the Black Sea is developing in general. In Artvin, the population was down 7.7 percent in 2015, so the population of Artvin is dwindling, friends. Again, the population of Giresun was at the same rate, 7.7 per thousand. The population across Turkey is increasing by 13.4 per thousand, and look, there are 7.7 per thousand populations in Artvin, Giresun, Giresun. In Rize, the population declines by 2.4 percent. In Tripoli and the Army, there is a slight positive increase in Turkey's average. In terms of migration, the East Black Sea is migrating. So, when we look at the black Sea's share in the production of Turkey -- I'm not going to drown you in a lot of technical details -- I'm looking at the 2007-2011 data here, in total, in all production, at 2.6 percent of the East Black Sea in 2007, the rate is going steady for a few years, down to 2.4 percent in 2011; new data hasn't been released, most likely because it's a little lower in the Black Sea products, because there's a decline in prices. In terms of agricultural added value, look, in five years, it is reduced from 4.5 per cent to 3.4 per cent. So, we see that in the production of the East Black Sea, both in total, as agricultural industry services, as well as in private, your share of agriculture has been reduced in the East Black Sea. Now, friends have shared information about the production of tea. We're making tea in 770,000 acres. We produce 1.3 million tons of tea, age of tea. Turkey's actual consumption of tea is around 300,000 tonnes, and its production of tea is around 262,000 tonnes. We're talking about over 2 billion tea sales. 210 thousand families, close to a million people, make a living on tea. But when we look at it, we actually see that even though it concerns such an important audience, the price of tea is unstable, especially at very low prices in the private sector. The non-organized teamaker was powerless against teamakers. Since the yield of tea is significantly reduced, the manufacturer is having trouble selling its product and has difficulty collecting its money. Stocks are more than enough, promotions and exports are inadequate, the industrialist is in a dark and depressed state, and the manufacturer is suffering a great loss. But the most important thing in tea is smuggling. In fact, there is a very serious amount of illegal tea coming to Turkey. It is specifically expressed that it came through Iran, which is inferior, which is extremely problematic in terms of hygiene, as a result of these illegal teas and these illegal teas, in fact, is a victim of Turkish farmers and Turkish industrialists. Therefore, there must be serious measures regarding this fugitive -- some of my suggestions -- to be made. Now, we'll come up with some more details of the tea, but another item that's important to the Black Sea is nuts. We've talked about nuts here before, you know, unfortunately, the nut maker was abandoned at the mercy of two foreign companies in Turkey, and the nut maker is also victimised. Now, there's a victim in tea, there's a victim in the nuts, the alternative product policy is unfortunately unworked, the results haven't been activated, the tourism potential of the Black Sea has not been activated; on the contrary, investments that would destroy nature are not allowed in the Black Sea; so, what will the Black Sea people do, and how will the Black Sea people live? Against that, in products that are sensitive to the Black Sea, especially if we can't develop industry, we can't do enough about tourism, at least with products that exist, we need to take measures to increase production, improve the quality of production. In this context, I have a few suggestions about tea, and I'd like to share them with you. Once in tea -- you know -- the buyer gets 50/50, half of the TAYCUR, and half of it gets private sector companies. So here, for once, the tea industry should be looked at as a whole without a special-public distinction, and the solutions to problems should be presented from that point of view. A system where quality finds its value should be created, which means quality finds its value and quality is, of course, increased. A tea market system where the buyer and the seller meet, where the quality product is priced for, should be established, both indigent and industrial and government-pleased. A price should be set for the welfare share of our manufacturers. It is vital that tea purchases are made without loss of quality and without being victimized by producers. The amount of quotas applied in the tea must be increased in the ability to process the chaykur. Older tea gardens must be replaced without spending time with a program that has superior efficiency and quality. Organic tea needs to be cared for. Chemical fertilizer must be replaced by organic or semi-organic fertilizer. In the study of the tea law, all parties must have opinions, consensus. The teamaker's assurance is CHAKUR. Therefore, CHAKUR must be operated more efficiently, left out of political influence. Tea quality measures must be taken, the state should spend money in this area for RD, efficiency in tea needs to be increased, and product diversity needs to be increased. In addition to black tea, many products, such as green tea, gold tea, white tea, tea powder, tea cream, are of great importance to be found in the market with a variety of products. Tea is basically a national product. This tea, in its national position, must be provided with a large amount of support, as in other tea countries, and it may be possible to give the industry competitiveness in this sense. It has to be done, as with other agricultural industrial products, that the value added in tea should be reduced to one percent, because we think it's an important measure to make prices a little bit more comfortable inside. We said the tea was a big problem. This needs to be avoided. Tea smuggling in particular should be considered organized crime. Tea smugglers must be given deterrent punishments. The eastern and Southeast Anatolian region is known for its packaging facilities. That's how tea smuggling comes from this region, which is intensively coming from Iran. Packing facilities in these areas, where tea smuggling is busy, must also be monitored tighter. The documents used in import tea transport must be valid. As with forest products, it is seen here as an important element of trafficking to bring in the deadline. The fugitive is already a problem of his own, but he has problems with both hygiene and quality. So the captured escaped teas must be destroyed, absolutely not released, and should not be expected to bring in documents. Security units fighting tea smuggling must also be rewarded. An important part of the illegal tea comes from Iran, which should be contacted by Iranian authorities. Therefore, it is important for our people to investigate the problems of tea - a very important product for the Black Sea - and to take measures related to tea. I salute the General Assembly while I put an end to my words. Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0090par0250	Thank you, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0091par0251	I have a request for a statement according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0090par0252	Mr. Bauken, it would be easier if you could get into the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0091par0256	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we, the People's Democratic Party, would like to reminisce once again about the Prophet, who came to the entire Islamic world as a bearer of good news to humanity because of the Happy Birth Week we've been in. The main theme of the philosophy that the Prophet had preached was that I should not eat the right of the servant and not persecute the slave, as we all know. In particular this week's occasion, I would like to convey to you that those who have recklessly eaten rights and persecuted the subject once again have to review all of their practices, including their politics on the basis of this philosophy. On the other hand, many gang structures that say they still act in the name of Islam during this Kutlu Birth Week, but use Islam as a means of power, continue to commit brutal massacres in the Middle East, Syria. In particular, these gang structures, supported by the AKP government, are attempting to commit serious massacres in Sheikh Maksut and Efrefiye neighbourhoods of Aleppo, using chemical weapons against the civilian Kurdish people. We consider the fact that these gang structures, such as El Nusra, Aaar al-Sam, Ceysh-ul Islam, are supported by the AKP government as a matter of great concern for our country and for our people in the future. I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0092par0261	Mr. Baluken, in accordance with the verdict, your time was actually one minute, but you spoke for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0091par0262	Isn't that two plus one, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0092par0263	Before we go on the agenda, it's two plus one, and then it's on the agenda, and then it's one minute for the group's deputy president to have a say. So, if you'd like to continue, for the record.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0091par0264	So, let me put it this way: I'd like to say that this decision that you've made as the Presidential Court is extremely ill-advised. As the General Assembly continues, the group's vice presidents at times demand a say in the matter of the emergency events, both for information of the General Assembly and for public information. I would like to say that even the power of members of the group to use a word that reflects the will of a million games, that the Presidential Court has restricted it in such a way, that I find that it is inexplicable, and that this decision must be reviewed. These gang structures, which I just described, are also making serious attacks on our country. In particular, rocket shells that have fallen on the church in the last few days have nearly wiped out the safety of the people of the Church. We're dealing with an understanding, a mentality, as if it were a meteorological event with four serious injuries, dozens of civilian casualties, as if a raindrop had fallen on the Church. Even the idea itself reveals how these gang structures are protected. Just moments ago, the deputy chief of the main opposition party's group called on the General Assembly to inform them twice what was happening in the church, what was the extent of the attacks on the border, and the right of the Assembly to be informed of this matter of the safety of the people of Kilis. We, as the People's Democratic Party, invite the government to inform all Turkish public and Parliament General Assembly on the attacks on both the chemical attacks on Sheikh Maksut and Efrefiye neighbourhood, as well as on the attacks on the church from the border. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0093par0267	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. We'll certainly consider your criticisms, but I'd also like to point out, Mr. Baluken. At our meeting, we also agreed that Parliament Speaker Mr. Ismail Kahraman will set a new date for a meeting, which will be attended by Parliament Speakers, but also by members of the group. This meeting will probably bring up the issues that you have expressed and criticised. I hope that at this meeting, Mr. Baluken, there will be corrections on the issues you have expressed and criticized.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0091par0269	So in this matter, Mr. President, I wish that if such an open door had been left, as per Parliamentary regulations, the current functioning here would have come to some agreements after that meeting. Now, from what we've read, there are a number of searches that are entirely designed to silence opposition parties; these are inappropriate practices. This is Parliament, a basis for the public's problems to be addressed by opposition parties and to be voiced and brought up. So, of course, at that meeting, we're going to reassert our right from the Civil Code, but I wish you hadn't applied immediately, so the outcome of that meeting was expected.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0093par0271	Mr. Baluken, since it's signed...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0091par0272	Mr. President, we don't have the ability to express the problems of our country, our region, the entire Middle East geography in one minute, so this reality needs to be known to everyone.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0093par0273	Mr. Bauken, we'll try to hold this meeting as soon as possible. Mr. Incescuz, come in, you asked for a word. Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0094par0277	Mr. President, I'd like to go from the end to the beginning. First of all, we have seen that this practice is a proper practice, and for a long time, each of the legislators of the Parliament has had their own special practice, far from the Civil Code. So I want to make it very clear that it's nice that all legislators of Parliament are united under the General Assembly, in accordance with the Civil Code, and in the following practice. Of course, if it's a minute here, we need to talk for a minute. Otherwise, there's no way that parliamentary work could be cut down like this indefinitely, and there's no way that it could get intubated. Of course, important events will be brought up here. I'll tell you one of these important events: we've never been in power... and since the day we came to power, we've said that we're going to fight gangs, that we're not going to allow any of the gangs, that we're not going to allow any of the terrorist organizations to be formed. I'm not sure that any of the things that were mentioned here today -- just now -- are absolutely none of them -- [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is impossible for us to support terrorist organizations in any way, but today, along with the attack of one of these terrorist organizations, our soldiers have been seriously injured and our soldiers have been martyred. I pray for God's mercy. Now, you have to condemn them, you have to talk about them, and there's a struggle within a legal ground within the legitimate defense of the state of the Republic of Turkey, the government of Turkey today with terrorism. We need to talk about this. I would also like to point out once again that our country's support for terrorist organizations as well as the fact that it has been mentioned by elected MPs in the General Assembly by the votes of our nation in these terms is, in fact, absurd. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0095par0283	I wish the decision had never been made!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0096par0284	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0097par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr Altay has just asked the government to make a statement -- not only today -- about these rocket bullets that have been dropped by Syria -- but the government has a very serious insensitivity to inform the Grand National Assembly. We expect and desire the government to make the necessary statements on this matter immediately. But we do see that even though it's past 18 o'clock and a government member, even though a minister must be found, still no minister has arrived at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, this is the first one. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Second, it is true that the parliamentary legislature of the group's deputy speakers should have a specific application union on their rights, but we also feel that it should be discussed at a meeting of parliamentary deputies and members of the group, and that it should not be too restrictive to the speech of the group's vice presidents, and that the deputy speaker should also have the right to initiative. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0098par0292	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Akçay, Mr. Baluken has expressed himself, and I repeat the same thing. We can have a meeting with you as soon as possible and discuss these matters again. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, the second speaker is Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Toğrul. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0099par0301	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first and foremost, I salute you all. I have made a pledge in favour of the CHP's motion to investigate the problems of the production of tea. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly again. Precious lawmakers, including Rize, the Army, Giresun, Tripoli and Artvin, are partially producing tea in Turkey. The world also produces tea in Asian countries such as China, India, Sri Lanka. In the areas where tea production is made in Turkey, tea production is made for six months because of low temperatures, but in the countries of the world that I counted just now, it is possible to harvest tea for twelve months, since the temperature has not dropped below zero degrees. In fact, although it may seem to be a disadvantage at first, the fact that the tea plant has been abandoned for six months and is covered in snow reduces the use of fertilizer, allowing the tea in Turkey to be natural, uncompromising, in part organic tea, due to the absence of agricultural medicine and other inputs. Dear friends, 205,000 tea makers in the region are working on tea farming. In particular, tea is the only source of livelihood in the Black Sea region. 210 thousand families living in the region make their living in the production of tea and in the tea business. Despite producing the world's most natural tea, the teamaker has accumulated a number of problems that have been waiting for years to come from the field to the glass. For the political interests of governments, periodical, day-saving incentives and pricing policies have caused tea farming and teamakers to get stuck in big problems. For years, the use of chemical fertilizer and fertilizer in the field of tea has corrupted the soil's structure, so the quality and efficiency of tea is becoming increasingly low. In the age tea purchase again, the control mechanisms fail to function properly, so the low-grade tea leaves are bought and reduce both the quality of dry tea and the rate of efficiency. Dear lawmakers, in all other countries where tea is produced, governments offer more than 50 per cent support for the production of tea. However, in Turkey, now, through the establishment of a stock market, unfortunately, it is possible to say that tea is facing such a problem today, as our other agricultural products are trying to finish tobacco, sugar beets and so on. Teamakers in the East Black Sea do not have this problem alone. Unfortunately, the streams of the East Black Sea are being destroyed through the HES. Again, the plateaus, we all know the story of the Green Road, and unfortunately the destruction of the plateau under the name of Artvin Cerattepe is a major problem. I did it myself without listening to what the government's people who have been living there for a long time, and that's the right thing to do. In the old days, we all remember, dear friends, in our textbooks, there was a sentence in secondary school, a country that was self-sufficient in terms of agriculture. There was a definition. The government has been so difficult lately that with such a wrong policy, the government has even had to remove this sentence from textbooks. Dear friends, the government's agricultural policy is being used up in almost every area in our country today because of the idea that domestic production is expensive, as cheap as it seems to be in the way the capital market is. You know, we sing for tea, why do we say your neck is crooked? But it's like a camel, so what's true? Today our agricultural production is truly facing challenges. Dear friends, Turkey, for once, has no specific agricultural policy. Perhaps today, the country's population has no policies, although its important population is struggling with agriculture, and three per cent of its population has been able to live on agriculture, while agriculture-related countries are able to self-export and export themselves, while today the population is dealing with 35 per cent agriculture in Turkey, while unfortunately our country has become a country that is not self-sufficient in agriculture. The division of agricultural land as a result of the growth of families, the liberalisation of agricultural areas, and for other reasons, there are now serious problems with agriculture in our country. Not just tea, dear friends, but look, in the province of Gaziantep, where I'm a substitute, today's production of peanuts is unfortunately more expensive, and it's completely turned to a peanut based on Iran. Again, as I said earlier, agricultural land, peanut trees, can be dismantled and built there in a horticultural -- such as the University of Gaziantep -- in a science nest. Now, rightfully, Mr. Engin Altay, our Deputy Director of the Group is asking here, he says: "Where is the government?" Where has he been for 14 years? The government is making a statement about the GAP project yesterday. What is it? They say that for 14 years, you have been in power for 15 years, dear friends, for 14 years. The GAP project, the Southeast Anatolia Project, is nearly complete in the field of energy today, with the production rate of watering canals for agriculture, which will provide the most serious contribution to its people, is around 15% today. Again, look, we can build an AFAD camp in Markety, near farmland, first-class farmland. Again, today, on the edge of Nizip Tea, agriculture was no longer possible from Gaziantep to Nizip. Around there, our people, who produce plants and vegetables around Nizip Tea, are unable to eat the fruit and vegetables produced there today because they are poisoned. They found a solution in Nizip Tea, as if the AKP government had been doing it from a long time ago. What did they do? They put the output of the Organised Industrial Region into a channel of 15km and poured it directly into the dam. Since we're watering it with the same dam, it doesn't really matter, but Gaziantep wants to be sold to the public like we've solved the problem. The fruits produced there are still evident in official reports that have caused serious health problems, serious increases in our people, cancer, and other diseases.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0100par0313	Fugitive tea also gives you cancer, so don't drink it.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0099par0314	Yes, well, it's known that there are serious problems with tea, dear friends. Again, today, organic agriculture is a solution that we all see almost as a leader in the world, but today, it's still border-high, minefields, unfortunately, unexplored land with mines. Unfortunately, those mines can't be wiped out because that area hasn't been fumigated for years, while it's available for direct organic agriculture. Around 4,000 villages have been evacuated in the eastern and Southeast regions, agriculture and livestock have become impossible, and we have become a completely dependent country. Today we import meat, today we import grain; today we destroy all agricultural areas from cotton to tobacco, and leave the people to misery. Dear friends, we need an agricultural policy immediately. The Republican People's Party's motion to investigate tea problems in Rize, East Black Sea, in this sense, is actually expanded and further researched into Turkey's agricultural policies. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0101par0320	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. The second and final speaker against the group proposal is Mr. Hasan Karal. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Karal. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0102par0325	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Of course, tea is an essential value to us, especially the East Black Sea region. It's a big fact that when you take the tea away, life will stop in the area. For him, tea is everything to us. There is no alternative to tea. I can use the slogan here too, but of course we will work at the support of the tea. But while tea is being discussed here today, I'd like to present you with some information about tea. Of course, I don't want to go back to 1980. In the early 1980s, all of our lawmakers in this Turkish National Assembly probably know how the teas were poured into rivers and into the Black Sea. I'd like to come back 80 years later and compare the situation in the tea industry before the AK PARTY and after the AK PARTY. Very valuable MPs, dear friends; when we took over TEAYKUR in 2003, the mobile phones of the TEAYKUR General Directorate were in foreclosure, the phones of the TEAYKUR General Directorate were turned off. CHIKUR was unable to pay its employees; wages could hang out for three months, four months, and five months. The manufacturers were unfortunately having a very serious problem buying age tea prices, and there's even a sloganed term in Rize. If the money for tea was to be paid, a minister or a prime minister had to come to Rize, and he had to explain the timetable for the payment of tea coins. There are years in February or March when the money for tea in May is paid next year. We've taken over such a teacup. THE answer to that became a non-wasting organization. THE annual expense of social facilities under the TEEYKUR General Directorate was over $300 billion. So, at this stage of the incident, I have to say that when Rize comes to Cumhuriyet Square, the money will be paid at this time, as if he couldn't pay the tea money, as if he were paying the charity, the money for tea will be paid in June, and the money for tea will be paid in July.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0103par0330	Come to the private sector, private.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0102par0331	In 2015, the manufacturers were paid for tea by 1 quadrillion 76 trillion THUR. Respected lawmakers, in 2002 the capital of ÇAYKUR was 225 trillion, and today the capital of ÇAYKUR reached 1.5 quadrillion. IN 2002, the investments before the AK PARTY were $1 trillion in old money, while he now invested 116 trillion in 2015. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The pre-2002 age tea shopping system was the quota age tea shopping system, and now we've moved on to the dating system by creating a revolution in addition to that. Our tea grounds are 799,000 decrepits, while 826 thousand dedars have been raised today. I have to say this to those who say "Tea farms are not being increased." The issue of the license of unregistered agricultural areas, the registration of their teas, has been approved by the Council of Ministers, and is now fully licensed, unregistered teas. The age amount of tea was 522,000 tonnes in 2002, reaching 680,000 tonnes in 2015. In 2002, the quotas of the product were 335 kilograms in the first exile, 335 kilos in the second exile, 325 kilos in the third exile, 1,890 kilos in total in the third exile, 1400 kilos in the first exile in 2015, 375 kilos in the second exile, 375 kilos in the third exile, 1.175 kilograms in total. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) At the rate these purchases continue, these quotas will continue to increase at this time. As for the support payments, we pay the support premiums that have been going on for the last 13 years. See, the whole tea-supporting thing is on the agenda of tea with the AK PARTY power. So over the course of this year, we have paid 159 trillion liras in support in 2015. The age price of tea was raised from 32 cents in 2002 to 1.58 TL in 2015. In 2002, there was no organic tea farming, but in 2015 7,325 tonnes of organic tea farming were performed. As for organic tea farming, organic tea farming, which was not in 2002, was delivered to 12,000 producers with 37 thousand per cent. Of course, our goal is to move the entire region to organic agriculture. Hopefully, we're putting our best effort into it right now. About 800,000 per cent of their total tea area is now about 1/20 of organic agriculture, but our goal is to organicize the entire region. Organic tea agricultural support was destroyed in 2002, while in 2015 we supported 23 trillion lira organic tea farming. The organic tea difference is not in 2002, but in 2015, we paid $3.20 more for organic farming. As for the Buddha compensations, the payment in 2002, which was only 31 trillion, has been raised to 118 trillion liras. The age processing capacity for tea increased from 6,600 tonnes per day in 2002 to 8,650 tonnes in 2015. This means that, given that the average age tea factory is between 100 and 150 tons, we have built about 15 additional tea factories since 2002. In 2002, we produced 207 kilograms of white tea while the production of white tea was absent. Organic black tea disappeared in 2002, while in 2015 we produced 1,328 tonnes of organic black tea. Black tea production set a record of 94,254 tonnes in 2002 and 129,000 tons in 2015. Green tea production disappeared in 2002, while in 2005 we produced 129 tonnes of green tea. In 2002, when organic green tea was missing, we produced 21 tons of organic green tea in 2015. Our annual sales of tea took place in 2002 at around 98 thousand tons and 125 tonnes in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, speaking of which, I'd like to discuss some of our investments. We are now building the world's most capable and modern tea-packing plant in our Rize, right at the entrance of our Rize, in our betterdere region. Hopefully, we'll have it in the service next year. With Allah's permission, we will finish the daily packing factory with a thousand tons of processing capacity. I hope this factory, whose total value is about 300 trillion, brings blessings to our tea industry. Recently, about a month ago, with the addition of our Minister of Agriculture, we laid the foundation for a 400-ton age tea factory in our town on Sunday, where construction continues. In our counties of Nuts, Twinsdere and Pinelhemskin, we continue to build organic tea plants. We're about to overcome land problems these days. By building factories in these three counties, we will have built factories in all 12 of our districts. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We also built, finished, served 150 tons of organic tea plants in the district of Heshin in 2009.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0104par0344	Good luck, good luck.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0102par0345	By the way, of course, we're continuing our work on the tea law, which, hopefully, our opposition parties -- which is not yet in the preparation phase -- are still working on it. About a month-and-a-half ago, after we've made a draft of this tea law in the General Directorate of ÇAYKUR, with the participation of our Minister of Agriculture and all the institutions involved in the tea industry, all the NGOs, all the agricultural rooms, all the tea producers' associations, all the teamakers' participation, hopefully, we'll submit it to the information of our opposition parties. Finally, for your health, drink our tea, our Turkish tea, which is the only non- chemically produced tea in the world. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0105par0349	Thank you, Mr. Karal.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0106par0350	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0105par0351	Mr. Bachelor, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0106par0352	The preacher gave misleading information, so he said the information the opposition gave was wrong. I want a promise to fix this.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0107par0353	He didn't say that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0108par0354	He spoke with documents, he spoke with documents.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0109par0355	Mr. Bachelor, I can only promise you your place to fix it.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0110par0356	Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0109par0357	No hard feelings, Mr. Bachelor. I promise you your place to fix it.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0111par0359	What are you going to fix, Mr. Bachelor? It's all true. You drank organic tea because of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0109par0360	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0112par0363	Mr. President, my dear friends, the spokesman for the Justice and Development Party, compared the 2002 figures to the 2016 figures. We watch this all the time at the Justice and Development Party. Look, he fooled people by drowning people with numbers, but he never touched the fact that right now, only 55 percent of the tea produced in the region is produced by CHAKUR, and since 2002, the tea factory they've made is one. The private sector produces 45 percent. People are miserable in the hands of the private sector. The private sector is building a monopoly. Honourable tea makers, tea managers are also being destroyed, and we do not interfere in the private sector. There's no such thing, this citizen has turned his land into a nut garden, a tea garden, in trust with the government. Half of this tea, half the tea produced by the private sector, and there's tremendous pressure on it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He's buying a state for 1,7. He's buying a private sector for 1.3. He's paying in a year. The ruling party has nothing to say about these matters. They're misleading people about it, just like they do about everything else.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0113par0368	It completely distorts what the Hatibi said.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0114par0369	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0115par0370	There's bullying.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0116par0371	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0114par0372	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0116par0373	He said we built one factory and I wasn't telling the truth. I want a promise.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0117par0374	Is it because of the bullying?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0114par0375	There's no bullying here, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0118par0376	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0117par0377	Yes, sir, how come there isn't one?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0119par0378	Did I tease him, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0120par0379	We'll give you your word and you can make a correction.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0117par0380	If you remind me, Mr. Hasan, what did Rize give the AK PARTY?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0119par0382	Mr. President, now, of course, one factory has been built in Reza. He can't count the names of the tea factories in Rize. So, it leaves, says there's a factory built. Did we or did we not increase the capacity of 8,650 tons from 6,600 tons in Rize? So, these increased factories, are they or are they not additional investments in the tea industry? Have we or have we not doubled the capacity of the Tea Factory? Did we or did we not double the capacity of the Veliköy Tea Factory? Did we or did we not build a new 400-ton factory for Ardeshen? Now, did we or did we not build a factory for the nurse? But the gentleman, who only looks at the ratings of the tea industry, says, "You've built one factory." I'll leave it to the public, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0121par0385	Thank you, Mr. Karal.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0122par0386	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0121par0387	Mr. Bachelor, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0122par0388	He can't count the tea factories. They teased him. This time I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0121par0389	Yeah, he picked on me this time. Here, two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0122par0393	Look, when this MP was an imam at the Sheikh Mosque, I was dealing with tea and tea problems on this stand.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0123par0395	Wow! Wow!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0122par0396	So I'm returning the word "can't count" to him. Look, my dear friends, I didn't say anything was done in tea or tea. I'll tell you one thing, I'm going to draw the bottom again, yes I'm going to admit... thanks to the Help Milkyoglu and to the General Manager here, he's working on organic tea. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] But the men of this chemical fertilizer lobby -- which they have here -- are trying to stop Help Milkyoglu. He didn't do anything. I didn't say anything. What I'm saying is that still, the private sector operates almost half the age tea produced, and the manufacturer in the hands of the private sector is miserable. When there are any problems, the Istanbul courts are responsible. And Mr. President, the Prime Minister of the period, said, "I won't interfere with him." You'll interfere, my friends. He's not getting into it. Why isn't he getting into this? You know, there's a story about Basic...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0124par0400	Now, let's find out how many tea factories there are.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0122par0401	In Istanbul, a murder took place, and the judge asked: "Tell, what happened?" Basic says: "I set off from Rize on a rainy day. What happened? A rain fell, put an air down. I returned to Rize.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0125par0402	Yeah, well, if you're assertive about what they're saying, run for Rize, but you can't, and you can't prove your claims, it's that simple.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0122par0403	He is not going to Istanbul, he is not going to Istanbul because he does not answer these questions. Half the tea is private. This private sector is being monopolized. You're breaking the tea market law.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0125par0405	If what you say is true, run from Rize.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0122par0406	Whatever you've done with the tea market law, whatever you've done with the sugar, whatever you've done with the tobacco, you're going to make the tea the same. Who's going to be on this tea market board, what foreign monopolys are going to be; one day we'll all come and talk to you one by one. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0126par0409	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0127par0410	If what you're saying is true, run from Rize! You can't, you can't! Why didn't you run from Rize? Why didn't you?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0126par0411	Here you go, Mr. Karal.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0128par0412	Mr. President, this time he was picking on me.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0126par0413	Tell me what he said.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0128par0414	The imam I made...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0126par0415	Congressmans, one moment, please.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0128par0416	He must have put my imam in his mouth and teased me.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0126par0417	And I promise you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0128par0421	Mr. Bachelor, I'm not going to take you in because you insult imams, you do that every time you speak.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0129par0423	What did I say?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0128par0424	I was an imam with honor and honor.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0129par0425	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0128par0426	But you came here in 1999 because of imams like me. And I voted for you with this hand, and I wish my hand had been broken. You then came here from the Party of Virtue, by abusing religion, and by taking all the imams behind you in 1999, and by taking our support. And now you're getting up, making fun of imams, and you're having this conversation everywhere. Here I invite you to talk about my tea business.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0130par0427	Mr. Karal...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0128par0428	We're trying to discipline the private sector by increasing capacity. You can't be so ignorant that you don't know that the private sector is being disciplined if the capacities are increased. If it increases its capacity, the private sector will be cornered, buying more tea and giving more money. You don't know these things and you get up, and you say: "One tea factory has been built." I'm counting on you: we did it; we added to the mosque; we added to the day; we did it to Veliköy; we built a factory to Ardeshen; you still say: "One. You're away from the region; you don't know the truth of the region; and you don't know the truth of the region; and while you've kept it, we've kept it as an imam.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0131par0430	Mr. President, this time it's not just teasing, it's insulting. I'd like to respond in a way that won't allow us to pick on a new one. He didn't tease me, he insulted me. He's talking about religious abuse.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0130par0431	Mr. Bachelor, I promise you one last time, I'll take a break later if I have to. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0131par0434	Dear MPs, you were an imam at the Sheikh Mosque. Is it an insult to imams, dear friends? Is it an insult to imams? Is that a bad thing?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0132par0435	You don't know. You said you didn't know.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0131par0436	Mr. Karal was an imam, and I was a professor, and the other one was something else, so leave it. Look, Mr. Karal, for once, before you learn to speak, you're a stranger to the region... so I'll leave them aside.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0132par0439	You're a stranger to CHP! You're a stranger to CHP!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0131par0440	It's like the basic joke, it doesn't come to the point. Once again, tea has been neglected in the area. People in the area can't get along with tea. Tea law is being passed, tea market law and tea monopoly will be abandoned; Turkey's tea shop will be killed. These are our concerns, so let's investigate them. Who's blocking organic tea, how's it blocking it, why haven't we taken steps so far? Let's get all of this out of the way. Let's talk about where chemical fertilizer brings the area. That's why we're making a tea proposal. As for the abuse of religion, my dear friends -- I don't know if they voted for me, I wasn't there -- you're the one who got to the bottom of it, you're the one who got to the bottom of it. At no time in my life have I ever abused religion and religious values. (CHEERING) I've never done politics like this. It is wrong to make politics of identity, beliefs, lifestyles; it will lead to disaster in Turkey. The friend voted for me, I don't know what I'm supposed to do in return. I can't say if it's my fault or not.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0133par0442	There must be loyalty to the covenant, loyalty to the covenant.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0131par0443	I salute you with respect. I guess I didn't pick on anyone.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0134par0445	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. Members of parliament, I now submit to you the Republican People's Party Group's proposal: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0131par0450	The AKP has rejected the proposal for tea, for the record.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0134par0451	Members of parliament, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration according to Article 37 of the Interior Charter. I'll read it and process it and put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/68) I demand that my original Law Proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. As the owner of the proposal, I promise Mr. Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0135par0464	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Article 299 of the Penal Code has specifically defined insults against the President as a crime. I have an offer of law in this scope, in order to remove 299 from the Penal Code. But let me make it clear right away that my proposal of the law is dated June 19, 2012, which means it has nothing to do with Mr. Erdogan. I gave it to him in 2012. And the reason I gave it to you in 2012 was because of the International Amnesty's Freedom of Thought and Speech Report on Turkey, which was one of the things that needed to be removed in that report, and I gave it to you in that frame, but now it's getting very serious. There are 26 cases in the Ahmet Necdet Sezer period, 139 in the Abdullah Gul period, and over 1,800 cases in the Erdogan period, dear friends, over 1,800 cases.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0136par0466	No insults, no lawsuits.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0135par0467	So there's no way a prosecutor can make a non-obstructive decision in any complaint, dear friends, there's no possibility. If the President's lawyers filed a petition, whatever prosecution, it's definitely, definitely turning into an indictment.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0137par0468	Just for him?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0135par0469	And this is my beret badge!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0138par0470	Bravo!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0135par0471	Fezleke has just arrived. I'll put this in my room. But, in one place, there's no insult; I can distribute it to all of you, not a single major criticism. It's a normal review, but it turned out to be a trial, and it came about me. Dear friends, there are three important reasons for removing this clause, and the fourth has been added. The opposition Criminal Court of Asliye has submitted the file to the Constitutional Court through appeal and is currently being discussed in the Constitutional Court. We don't know what the Supreme Court will decide. Two, the Venice Commission has a report, dear friends. Mr. Minister, the Venedik Commission has no job. He said, but the Venice Commission's report is exactly this: that the current state of matter and practical implementation of matter are incompatible with European norms and international standards, and that the European Convention on Human Rights (European Rights) has argued that the best solution to prevent a violation of its commitment to freedom of expression is the removal of the substance from the TK. There are harsher words; the Venice Commission has stated in its own report that terms such as "murderer", "thief," "thief," "thief" and "dictator" should be addressed as part of the social debate," and that it is also concerned about the number of lawsuits that have been filed. Again, dear friends, Ekrem Pakdemirli - God rest his soul, and I remember him with respect - had a case against Demirel, and he had a conviction. His file went to the European Court of Human Rights. In that case, the European Court of Human Rights said: "One cannot see more protection than the other citizens, because one person is the only head of state in the defamation case. Again, there is the trial of Erbil Tuşalp in Turkey. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan had filed a lawsuit, one day his newspaper and Erbil Tuşalp had been convicted. In that case, the local court, Ankara Asliye Court of Law, in the article written by Tushalp, admitted that Mr. Erdogan had said that he was mentally ill, and convicted Tushalp, admitting that he had said that he was mentally ill. The European Court of Human Rights condemned Turkey on a bet that politicians and Prime Minister should be tolerant of severe criticism...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0139par0475	Mr. Godkulu, would you agree if we called you mentally ill?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0135par0476	...and Erbil Tuşalp was retrialed, the compensation decision was reversed, and this money was taken from the treasure. But, even though I asked the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance, I don't know if this money was retrieved from Mr. Erdogan through unprovoked enrichment. Whether the Treasury received the money from Erdoğan or not, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance have not responded to me since 2012. I mean, there's money from Tushalp, where Erdogan, instead of paying Tuşalp, and one day the Ministry of Finance, has paid with interest, but Erdogan, did he pay the compensation he won, didn't he pay it; we haven't been informed until now, and we've been restricted to the privacy of private life, and there's also a matter of enrichment for no reason. Last thing I want to say, dear friends, is that all of this is going to go to the European Court of Human Rights. I warn you here: if you want to do the President and Turkey a favor... the general provisions are punishing the insult.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0140par0478	Don't insult me, it's over.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0135par0479	He's already punishing you for general provisions, for lawmakers, for Prime Minister, and for ordinary citizens.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0141par0481	Watch your mouth, so he doesn't sue. Why are you insulting me?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0135par0482	Mr. President, I'm a women's rights advocate. So if you'll just give me a minute...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0142par0483	Mr. Godkulu, we are now not giving an extension to the member of the board who spoke from the stand in accordance with the decision made by the members of the group.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0135par0484	Finally, friends, if you want to serve the President and Turkey, so, look, because it requires special protection, if you don't want Turkey to be convicted, we'll put this law on the agenda before the Constitutional Court, we'll transfer it to the commission, if it's incomplete, we'll complete it; tomorrow, the day after that 1,800 cases will not come up on the agenda, or any other issue. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0142par0487	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. There's a motion on the...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0143par0489	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0142par0490	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0143par0491	Mr. President, for the record, the clerk just mentioned some applications. TCK 299 was not released yesterday, which has been in the Turkish Penal Code for 90 years. I'd like to point out that today is being discussed, that we are, in fact, met with absurdity, one. Second: He mentioned the Venice Commission reports and so on, but when we look at the applications of countries involved in these countries, there are similar practices in Germany, Spain, France, Italy, and everywhere. The criticism, of course, can be done, but I'm asking him, would he be okay with it if we called him mentally ill? Is it okay if we curse her parents? Now, that's true when it's within the scope of criticism, but the insult is indicative of its family, and if there's an unspeakable word being spoken here, the sentence of 299 will be carried out and it will be punished.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0144par0494	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0145par0495	Mr. Godkulu, for the record... Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0144par0497	Sir, he was taunting me by expressing the words I didn't say. So I want two minutes of your time on the stand.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0146par0498	We'll see what he says.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0144par0499	Sir, I'm, look, they're just teasing me.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0147par0500	Look, I didn't promise to pick on you. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to promise not to pick on you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0148par0501	Mr. Godkulu didn't want to talk about bullying, Mr. Incesik.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0144par0502	Sir, he picked on me.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0147par0503	For the record...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0148par0504	He didn't pick on you either, Mr. Godkulu, so there's no obvious bullying.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0144par0505	Mr. President, there's a very obvious taunt, sir, I don't mean...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0148par0506	Well, Mr. Godkulu, here you go. Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0149par0508	They're mixing punishment and compensation.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0150par0509	You say and you promise. President, is that possible?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0151par0512	Dear friends, look, I didn't say anything to Mr. Erdogan's person, his family and his wife, I just told the court the verdict. Asliye Court of Law -- according to the court of Human Rights of Europe -- said that Erbil Tuşalp had written the conclusion that he had implied that he had said that he had called Erbil Tuşalp, who had condemned Erbil Tuşalp, who had condemned Erbil Tuşalp to compensation. I've expressed it. Even the European Court of Human Rights says that this is a severe criticism, the Prime Minister must be more tolerant according to ordinary citizens. The European Court of Human Rights said that, and I do not. I'm not saying that; one, the court's decision says that; two, the European Court of Human Rights says that. Otherwise, I have nothing to do with anyone's personal, family, and personal life, so I'm trying to express it. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, no one, even if he was President... look, Mr. Deputy Group President, I submitted this petition in 2012, when Erdogan was Prime Minister. Not at all. I've expressed it here, too. So, the situation that came today is grave, and we have to eliminate this immeasurability here. Otherwise, like the compensation paid back to Erbil Tuşalp, all of these cases will be paid by Turkey, because Mr. Erdoğan, unfortunately, has polarized Turkey.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0150par0515	You've polarized it!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0151par0516	Fifty percent of them love it, vote it, but 50 percent hate it. Those who voted for Mr. Erbakan, who didn't hate Ecevit, who didn't hate Erbakan. Those who voted for Demirel didn't hate Erbakan, but now there's a polarization and hate speech. If your group accepts this, you'll be doing a useful job for the President. The President has to be tolerant, tolerate more criticism. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0152par0519	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0153par0520	Mr. President, he's just made a mockery of my person as well...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0151par0521	I didn't pick on you, I told you it was dated 2012.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0153par0522	...also on behalf of my group, the deputy leader of the group. I demand word according to 69.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0154par0523	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0153par0526	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, first, of course, everyone on this bench needs to use a clean language, not just here, but at group meetings, elsewhere. If we're talking about polarization today, it's important to remember that it's not a clean language that we can't really analyze at a level, but it's a form of non-level talk that causes these polarizations. So we really have to criticize you for bringing him out of there and putting Mr. President at the core of everything, and we have to respond to those criticisms. See, the application of the 299 (TCK) has been in TCK for 90 years now, not today, not yesterday, not recently, but not recently. So it shouldn't bother you that this is being applied today, that there are punishments being taken here. We need to know that each one of us has to preserve a certain morality, a certain kind of clean language, in our language, at our level. But you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be very innocent, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out, you'll be out of the law, you'll be out of the law, you'll be out of the law, you'll be out of the law, you'll be out. That's not gonna happen. This was yesterday, and it will continue to exist after that, and it will not be possible for anyone to be punished if they're using plagiarism, defamatory, defamatory, insulting statements.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0155par0529	What will happen if the President tells you, Mrs. İlknur? What if the President insults you?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0153par0530	Look, we'll look at the applications in Europe.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0155par0531	It's a different matter with that!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0153par0532	In Portugal, Italy, the president will be humiliated if... A year and five years there, the same law, the same practice.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0156par0533	He's changed, he's changed! You're missing that information, they're not up to date!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0153par0534	You're looking at us, you're looking at Poland, in the same way as three years, three months in prison, one year, five years...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0156par0536	They've all changed, that information's not up to date!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0157par0537	Would you mind if we called him a mental patient?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0153par0538	Similar practices -- I just said -- are in various parts of Europe.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0157par0539	Do you mind if we ask Mr. Kilicdaroglu if he is mentally ill? Would you mind?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0158par0541	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0159par0542	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0160par0543	Of course, I'd advise everyone to speak in a clean manner. If society is polarized today, it's within the framework of low-level talk. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0159par0546	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0161par0547	Mr. Kılıçıroğlu, do you mind if we ask if he is mentally ill? You don't mind? There's no sound!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0162par0548	Mr. President, I have not used a clean language, and he has made a binding statement. That's why I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0163par0549	It's not. We answer: it's not.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0161par0550	Wow! You're not disturbed.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0163par0551	No, you asked, we answer.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0161par0552	And you answer, "We won't be disturbed." Is he mentally ill, Mr. Kilicdaroglu?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0163par0553	No, it's not. It's over. The answer is that simple. There's nothing to fight about.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0161par0554	It doesn't bother you at all. Shame on you, take care of your president! Take care of your president, take care of him.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0164par0555	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0165par0557	Friends, valued lawmakers, look, I've had a legal debate here, and I specifically stated that my proposal for the law was not related to the President, but that I gave it on June 19, 2012, not today. He wasn't President yet, but I made it very clear.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0166par0558	It doesn't matter. It's about intent.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0165par0559	In 2012 -- he became President in 2014 -- that's when I gave it to him.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0167par0560	All right, you've seen the future!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0165par0561	I gave it to freedom of speech because it is contrary to freedom of thought, that it is not necessary for the presidents to be protected in a special way, in a different way than us, in a different way from the citizens, but that's what we're getting at today. The president, his lawyers, unfortunately, is suing every criticism, every severe criticism, unfortunately, and that's why Turkey... look, what happened last time? Now, now, even Germany, we've given tribute, we've called their ambassador and so on.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0168par0562	They apologized right away.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0165par0563	We've come to this point, so what happened here wasn't enough, so now we've started picking on abroad, Germany, right and left.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0168par0564	The Germans said, "We did it wrong. They apologized. They immediately apologized and accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0165par0565	This judgment, look, dear friends, even if it were 90 years of misjudgment, even if it were eighty years, even if it came with the Penal Code of 2005, it would still be a wrong sentence, and Turkey would still be convicted of it. I've given you an example of the European Court of Human Rights; Erbil Tuşalp-Turkey decision, I can give it to my friend who wants it, he can read it. So we have these. Dear friends, in the decision of Erbil Tuşalp-Turkey, the local court says Ankara Asliye Court of Law says: "In these words, Erbil Tuşalp called the Prime Minister a mental patient." ▪ The mentally ill cannot say. Therefore, I sentence him to compensation. But now he has a decision from the European Court of Human Rights.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0169par0567	Wrong! Can't it be wrong? Can't the European Court of Human Rights be wrong? Mr. Godkulu, the decision may be wrong, that decision may change. He can make something else in another decision.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0165par0568	After that, there was a retrial, and the court and the Supreme Court in Turkey decided that these words were not an insult, dear friends. So, they decided to take the damages back. There's no need to take this to a different point, and there's no need to draw it to the President's practices today. Therefore, this proposal of the law is a burden on your shoulders. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0169par0570	Can't the ECHR be wrong?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0170par0571	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Members of parliament, on the motion, we promise Mr. Mehmet Bekkinoğlu of İstanbul. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0579	Mr. President, valued lawmakers can't be insulted not only by the elected president, but by any citizen, citizen, citizen of the Republic of Turkey or any human being anywhere in the world. The limits of freedom of thought and expression are racism, hate speech, insult. As a matter of fact, the 125th and 131th articles of the Turkish Penal Code have counted the crimes of defamation of a person's rights as a result of being an individual; what are they, how will they be punished, counted: the devaluement of the person's dignity and dignity by the introduction of a certain, concrete situation and maturity?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0172par0580	He knows tea, he knows law, he knows everything!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0581	All of this is a crime, and no matter who it is done, the Turkish Penal Code will be prosecuted and punished in various ways. Now, for the presidents -- not just for Mr. Erdogan, but for the presidents -- a 299th clause is being brought back, and it attributes the insult to something separate, from one year to four years, and when it's done publicly, it's increased by one-sixth.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0173par0583	When was he brought in? It's like it's new!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0584	That's what's being contested now. The President is a man like us. We've been taking on an unnecessary spoon of water, as if Mr. Godkulu or someone else could be insulted by the president. That's not what we're saying, guys. He's not the President, he can't be insulted. I mean, being insulted by people, especially by hate speech, by humiliation, by other things, I mean, it's really a crime of humanity, but it's already set up the Turkish Penal Code for all citizens. What we're saying is that it's a problem with the European People's Court, it's a problem with international relations, and it's not right to have an insult to the presidency, it's not necessary to have it removed, it's already protected, like you and us, like everyone else. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what are we really talking about here? In fact, it's been a long time since -- you haven't invented -- it's been before you, but you've made it to the top. The main issue is identity consolidation, belief consolidation, politics on lifestyle consolidation, the search for the common good in identity, my friends. That's why we're talking about our identities, and as soon as we open our mouths, we're insulting the other person. This is a serious problem, valued lawmakers. I mean, really, Turkey has very important problems. Look, we just talked about tea problems. They have very important problems -- income, violence -- and we're building politics on identity at the top, and we're discussing them in a harsh language and style, and we're polarizing them. Well, lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party, why don't you ever ask a question like that? I mean, there was this clause before that, Mr. Group Vice President, that's how he put it. So, why are there so many lawsuits? Why are you so...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0174par0587	It's because of social media.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0175par0588	I said it, I said it.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0589	There was no social media, he said.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0174par0590	Yeah, social media.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0591	Yeah, that's true, but I mean, with social media...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0174par0592	95% of it comes from social media.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0593	...the President's speech of three hours, five hours a day, every day...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0176par0594	You're talking nonsense! Too bad, too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0595	...screaming, calling, getting everyone in line...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0177par0596	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0597	...all of this has a serious contribution. My dear friends, this country is our country and we have nowhere to go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0178par0599	You won't even be able to go to Rize.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0600	And these people are our people, and right now, we have a friend who's taunting and insulting. We'll all live here. Look, we don't need to live together, but we'll live side by side. Let's go together...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0179par0602	You certainly know how to insult me.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0603	We will endure each other, my dear friends. The person who sets an example in this endurance is the person at the top.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0180par0604	Example, example.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0179par0605	You're saying things that the conscience doesn't agree with on the stand.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0606	Today, our President is responsible for the creation of polarizing language.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0179par0607	You have no credibility.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0608	That won't be necessary, my dear friends, people are already supporting themselves.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0181par0609	Why don't you tell that to your president?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0610	Yes, he received 52 per cent of the vote; yes, you received 49 per cent of the vote; halalah, you will rule this country until the next election, but you will rule this country in law, my dear friends.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0181par0611	That's what we're doing.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0612	You're not gonna make this country nervous.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0182par0613	You're the one who's nervous.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0614	It is your duty more than any of us, because you, my dear friends, will rule the country until a new election. Once again, there is no one here to insult the president, my dear friends.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0183par0616	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0617	Let no citizen be insulted.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0184par0618	The President-General is insulting me!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0171par0619	Of course, Mr. Group Presidents, you have to look after friends like this. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0185par0622	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0186par0623	Will your conscience accept what you're saying?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0185par0624	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0187par0625	You have the Erdogan complex, Erdogan!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0186par0626	You have no conscience!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0185par0627	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0187par0628	Mr. Bacheloroglu, you have the Erdogan complex because of your hometown.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0188par0629	Don't you know I'm a psychiatrist? You know I'm a psychiatrist?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0189par0630	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0190par0631	I'll wait, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0191par0632	You make all kinds of insults, and you're with those who betray all kinds of things!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0192par0633	You're with them in Oslo. Come on, Mr. Cahit, it's you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0191par0634	Shame on you! You're protecting me!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0193par0635	Did the CHP go to Oslo?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0194par0636	In your dreams, Recep Erdogan! You're complex, you're sick, Mr. Bachelor! CEYHUN IRGIL (Bursa) Go to Kandil, Oslo, and then speak of those who commit treason.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0195par0638	Members of the law, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0194par0639	He's in your dreams, isn't he, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Bachelor? You've got a complex, you're sick!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0196par0640	Are we asking the president to be insulted, brother?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0197par0641	I'm a psychiatrist, guys.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0198par0642	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0199par0643	Look, what does your congressman say?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit02spe0198par0644	Members of the law, there are two motions for questioning. The motions have already been suppressed and distributed to the members. Now, I'm going to read the motions in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly About Foreign Minister Mevlüt Sergeant, who led Turkey and the surrounding countries to instability, devoid of being actors in the global equation, responsible for public and religious tensions in domestic policy, Mr. Mevlüt Sergeantoglu, who is responsible for AKP foreign policy, we demand that the geneor be opened under the articles of the Constitution's 98th and 99th and 99th, under the articles of the TBMM Interior. HDP Deputy Chair HDP Group Deputy Chair Turkey's foreign policy has begun to live with its deepest crises throughout the history of the republic, especially the Arab uprising and the Syrian civil war. The riots, which appeared in Libya, Egypt, Tunisia, and called for major changes, were not read correctly by the AKP government, and the accession talks that began with the European Union in the early 2000s came to a halt as a result of the AKP's wrong policies. The AKP's government, which created its foreign policy in the form of not being able to read the developments in the eastern part of the country, and its relations with the West, with the logic of bonding from pragmatism to domestic policy, has entered into a major crisis, with the beginning of the Syrian civil war. During the first days of the Syrian civil war, the Assad regime signed joint agreements, with the change of the course of the war, and the Syrian policy, based on sectarianism, was put into effect. The fact that foreign policy, as a whole, produced negative results in the AKP, has gained speed with this wrong policy, because it is not the organised resistance of the peoples who have been under the pressure of the Assad regime for many years, but it has been chosen as allies, and strategic relations with these gangs have been developed. In the ongoing process, the rescue of Turkey's only land outside the country, the Shah Turbate, from the siege of the YPG, was a strategic hope for Turkey to act with the people of Rojava, but the AKP's government also entered into a denial policy that destroyed the ground that created this hope. The Turkish border is now known to the public as operational areas for small gangs, including DAİŞ, El Nusra, Ahrar al-Sham. The attacks of gangs that have led to civil massacres in Europe are now indicative of the attack on our party and opposition in Turkey. Any embargos have been imposed on the areas of the people of Rojava at the will of the Turkish border, while the 2016 central budget talks have made a confession of $8m trade from Akchakale and Karkamis Border Gates, held by government officials in the hands of a gang called DAİH. The AKP insists on sectarian policies that produce negative results in Syria. This persistently, the sectarian policies that need to be ended have been expanded by AKP power, and the Saudi Arabia-Katar-Turkey alliance, a product of this sectarian alliance policy, has caused deep social polarisation in the Middle East. Clearly, in a geography of peoples and beliefs such as the Middle East, following ethnic, foreign religious policies is an invitation to great social and political destruction. The AKP's government, which faces the migration drama in connection with the Syrian civil war, deals with European countries as well as with people. Negotiations on Syrian migrations, one of the largest human crises in the history of the Middle East, particularly on German Prime Minister Merkel's election accounts, have been thrown into a meaningless, immoral place even to be evaluated in terms of international law. But while the AKP's pragmatist policies are also seeking short-term gain in this regard, it is clear that it will cause problems for Turkey in the long term with migrations from Syria. Turkey's foreign policy condemned to pragmatism also exposed itself to relations with Israel and Russia. In particular, Turkey-Israeli relations, which have been completely corrupted by a pragmatist approach to domestic politics after the incident with the Blue Marmara, have caused long-term instability due to the conf and empty threats. Israel, described as a killer country, entered the category of "friend country" after the process of bankruptcy in foreign politics, and especially after Russia's gas recital. The same pragmatist politics has appeared in the process of joining the EU. Turkey, which now demands to enter the Shanghai Five in Putin, now hostile, has returned its face to the EU and the United States after the crash. Such politics lead Turkey to a strategic misery, a precious solitude. A policy-deprived, glib, and hollow foreign policy puts Turkey in a very disreputable position among the world's countries. In this case, we would like to ask that Foreign Minister Mevlüt Sergeantoglu be opened a gene question under Article 106 of the Constitution's 98th and 99th, ÜBMM Institution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under the proposal of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism for Sur and Silopi, the victims of the hasty decision to state the State of Emergency by the Council of Ministers and by the Official Newspaper, the victim of citizens in urban transformations throughout Turkey and the creation of the land space for capital, in order to cause cultural and humanitarian degeneration of urban transformations, we provide 10th amendments of the Constitution on Mr. Fatma Güldemet Yellow, whose primary responsibility is to increase the level of exploitation in nature through RES and HES. HDP Deputy Chair HDP Group Deputy Chair The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is the centre of AKP government's "building"-based policies. The AKP's power is being used by this institution to distribute capital under the name "Central Transformation," while its citizens and workers are being severely victimised. In the interest of capital distribution, it does not only damage the human but also the natural one, but it does damage to a massive level of destruction. The "nirvana" point in the exploitation order of the AKP's rule is carried out by decision-making. In one city and 21 cities in seven cities in Turkey, the districts of Turkey have been heavily bombarded and the cities have suffered massive destruction, under curfews declared 61 times to cover dozens of neighborhoods. The destruction of public life in Sur and Silopi, while witnessing that their homes have returned to rubble, was the first act of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, 15/3/2016 for Silopi, and 16/3/2016 for Sur 2945, and a request for the Council of Ministers to be seized by the State by the State Department's decision on March 25th. First of all, one of the things that needs to be highlighted is the fact that the practice of hasty publicisation is the product of a war law. It is an authority in the Law for National Defence, issued in 1939 that gives the Council of Ministers the authority to seize the premises needed for the care of emergency military needs under the conditions of war on the grounds of national defence. During the AKP period, the practice, which was envisioned to be used as an exception in combat situations, has been normalized and has been used in many areas from urban transformation to dam construction. One of the most fundamental contradictions in the decision to adopt the rush is the seizure of public assets within the framework of this decision. Its ownership was seized in the firehouse, cultural centre, neighborhood market, vegetable state, Yeşiltepe Park and some commercial areas. In Sur, there are historical sites such as Sur Municipality service building, Dengbej House, Cemil Pasha Mansion, Hasan Pasha Hanu, Holy Mosque, Mar Petyun Keldani Church, Anzele Park, Amida Höyük, Four-legged Minare, Leaded Mosque, and the municipality's green sites. However, the basic requirement for publicisation is that the Constitution finds its public benefit in Article 46, and that it is subject to special property. However, the decision included historical structures within the urban site and non-moving public property, and no "public benefit" was defined by the ministry. On April 1, 2016, during the Diyarbakır talks, Mr. Minister stated regarding the urgent decision to adopt the government, "First, what we will do is we will go with the citizens to negotiate with them by offering housing or other alternatives if they want one-on-one with the citizen. The last resort, if there is no solution at all, will be publicisation." It is a major contradiction as the Minister demanding a decision to adopt it. Because, as the Minister put it, it is unacceptable to consult with citizens, to come up with a one-on-one solution, in the first place, with the people, the elected local authorities and other local actors. However, Article 35 of the Constitution is very clear. "Everyone has rights to property and inheritance. These rights can only be limited by the law, for the sake of public good." Under the rule, property rights are violated by immediate publicisation. Given all these issues, we believe that it is necessary for Environment and Urbanism Minister Fatma Güldemet Sarı to be in charge, to open a gene for him, and to be relieved of his post under the Constitution and internal regulations. It has been presented to your knowledge. Members of parliament, the day of the meeting on whether or not the client will be on the agenda will then be submitted to your approval with the recommendation of the Council of Counsellor. If no proposals are made by the Council of Ministers, at the end of the constitutional term, the presidential resen will be brought up. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0198par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move on to "The Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" on the agenda. 1st ranked in the Court of Law (/694), Fully Filled in 65 years), Parliamentary Mustafa Kalaycı (Appointment on Monthly Tied to Law on Laws and Laws on Humanity) and Laws on Laws on Humanity (1/694), Proposals on Laws on Laws and Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws and Laws on Laws on Humanity (1/689), Constitutional Minister Mustafa Kalaycı (Presulsion of Human Rights and Non-Leased Turkish Citizens) (Absultrations of the Law on Human Rights of Turkey) (Absultration of the Law on Human Rights) and Laws on Laws on Humanitances of Turkey (Absultrationsstrations of Turkey). (Abst. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Article 273, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code, was adopted in the first chapter of the Law Bill. Now, let's begin negotiations on item six. Congressmans, there are three motions on the 6th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the 6th article of the Common Law Bill 273 rows in the following way. Bült Kuşoğlu Cemal Okan Yüksel Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Bihlun Tamayligil Musa Pine Utku Cakırözer Article 97 of Article 6 of the Law 2918 has been changed in the following way. The person who is injured must apply for a written application to the relevant insurance company before going to trial within the limits envisioned by mandatory financial responsibility insurance. If the insurance company does not answer the application in writing or the response is incompatible within seven days of the application date at the latest, it may open a damaged case or apply for an investigation under Law 5684. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 6th article of the Common Law Bill 273 be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Erhan Master Erkan Akçay Kamil Aydın Izzet Ulvi Ölvir Nuri Okutan The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ahmet Yıldırım Altan Tan Mehmet Ali Aslan Mahal Danış Beştaş Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0200par0034	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0198par0035	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0201par0036	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0198par0037	Mr. Nuri Okutan, MP of Isparta on the matter. Mr. Reader, please come in.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0202par0040	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party regarding Article 6 of Law Bill 273. I salute everyone with respect and respect. With the amendment to Article 97 of Highway 2918, he must apply for a written application to the relevant insurance company before going to trial within the limits envisioned by the mandatory financial responsibility insurance policy. If the insurance company does not answer the application in writing or there is a discrepancy that the response does not meet the request within 15 days of the application date at the latest, it may file a damaged case or apply for an investigation under Law 5684. What's done here literally means that the work is going to go downhill. Our citizens are being routed to insurance companies before they file a lawsuit, thus blocking the legal path. I mean, it's a prerequisite of the judicial path to apply for insurance, so the judicial path is restricted. This is likely to create chaos in the insurance industry because even in the process of proving the application, serious problems are possible. The return of mandatory traffic insurance, which had previously been paid in large quantities, will also create a separate chaos. This arrangement is a typical example of the government's hollow and profiling approach. Thus, the arrangement is of no serious use to the citizens or to the insurance people or to the industry. The mandatory traffic insurance has only been compensated for financial damage, it's been emptied, it's been imposed on a defect in death and injury, and a large portion of the guarantees have been eliminated. That's exactly what the government wants: to have a sense that prices are going to drop in sight, but not if the citizen is a victim in the future. The bill for all these negative practices and the chaos that's going to happen will be back to our citizens, and the victims of the insurance will increase dramatically. Since the prices were so high earlier, our citizen, who did not receive mandatory traffic insurance and was victimized, will face greater harm because the mandatory traffic insurance that our citizen has built as an evacuation won't do any good. In this case, the citizen will either head for the insurance or be burdened with a heavier burden or be devastated at the gates of the court and in the process of inspection. Some of our citizens will have to have mandatory traffic insurance as well as mandatory insurance insurance to make them feel safe. The insurance insurance is optional, but, you know, because of these conditions, it's practically mandatory. Mr. President, it's clear that this arrangement will not satisfy consumers' victims. It is also not possible to ensure that the insurance system works in a healthy and competitive way and to regulate the market in favour of the consumer. The arrangement, however, will be in favour of the insurance companies that are in the hands of foreigners, rather than consumers. The companies are starting to damage, depending on that, the policies are overloaded, and finally this arrangement has arrived. Rather than the rights and interests of consumers, this arrangement that puts companies first will also affect the competitive climate, so prices will not go down, but will go up. Because the idea of corporations is to minimize the damage and make the most of the profits. It is not possible for policy prices to drop by leaving at the mercy of a market that does not provide competition. The rise of policy prices will be victimised by drivers, taxi drivers, taxi drivers, bus drivers, movers, movers and consumers who own cars. With the arrangement in effect, the taxi is full, and the bus plates are impounded, so it won't be a surprise. The arrangement will not solve the problems of our driver's business, but will greatly increase the victims of third parties in accidents, as insurance companies limit the compensation they pay to victims of accidents. In this sense, the government's arrangement under the name "resolved traffic insurance problems" is empty. The Justice and Development Party here, as it has always done, has sacrificed on the back of Yörük, so to speak. Isn't that what it's always been like? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Another example: Laws are issued to benefit the elderly from public transportation, and the bill is paid to the municipality and even private public buses. This is another example of this. With these feelings, I salute everyone with respect and respect.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0203par0050	On the other proposal of the same nature, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0204par0052	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. And I have made a commitment to the 6th amendment of the next bill. This is an arrangement that has changed Article 97 of Law 2918. So, the main purpose of these changes is actually under mandatory traffic insurance, and I would like to say firstly that drivers, drivers, car owners, should be within the scope of an area that aims to compensate for the damage they've suffered, but is not within that scope. The first form of the 97th article, still unchanged, can be filed in the same way that it can be filed directly against the insurance adjuster, as predicted by the mandatory financial responsibility insurance insurance policy. The current bill, however, provides that those involved should apply in writing to the insurance company before they go on trial insurance, which means that they will not be able to go on trial before they apply. The earlier issue became mandatory this time, and if the insurance company doesn't respond in 15 days, then there will be conflict, and there will be investigation and trial. Now, really, this arrangement and, in general, this mandatory traffic insurance, the changes in financial responsibility insurance, the changes that feed insurance companies, the insurance companies. This arrangement is never done here with a background, such as the cost of citizens, drivers, drivers, vehicles, and to compensate for it, and we can see it very easily, and it has already been changed in the same period of power for two years in a row. Even in 2015, additional charges were brought to the mandatory financial responsibility insurance. Now, with this arrangement, the burden of drivers and drivers is being increased even further. In this case, citizens of Turkey and those who have bought new vehicles and renewed their insurance are forced to pay nearly 10 times more bills. Regarding this, as I know a very brief phase in the Commission phase, there is no direct interest in the current bill, as neither of the driver's rooms nor other relevant institutions have been taken into account during a period of three or three and a half months. However, the bill does not reduce policy prices, so even though the presentation is expressed differently, traffic insurance policy prices are not actually reduced by other substances. Again, with the provisions leading up to the 2918 Highway Traffic Act, we can easily conclude that the rights holder's claim to compensation for his own deficiencies, even under the mandatory traffic insurance policy, that a flexible and arbitrary approach to resolving the damage will actually rule from now on, and unfortunately, insurance companies will always consider it against drivers in such conflicts to make more profit. That's how it usually happens in current case files. This is a situation that will make the insurance companies' hands stronger and work against the drivers. Again -- as information -- although we don't all know this -- it's very easy to find out that 70 per cent of insurance companies, insurance companies in Turkey, are foreign companies. The insurance field has turned into a really big market, and the public is never fundamental, it's based on the profits of insurance companies, and with this arrangement, it's really going to work against the citizens, and we've been brought up with a picture that will actually work against traffic tickets and compensation processes. So we will, of course, vote no on this bill, but we would also like to share that these arrangements are not in Turkey's best interests for citizens of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0205par0061	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş. I submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0206par0063	President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0205par0064	I'll call the number of decisions, Mr. Demirel. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. Now, I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the 6th article of the Common Law Bill 273 rows in the following way. Cemal Okan Yüksel (Eskişehir) and his friends Article 97 of Article 6 of the Law 2918 has been changed in the following way. The person who is injured must apply for a written application to the relevant insurance company before going to trial within the limits envisioned by mandatory financial responsibility insurance. If the insurance company does not answer the application in writing or the response is incompatible within seven days of the application date at the latest, it may open a damaged case or apply for an investigation under Law 5684. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0207par0073	We can't agree.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0205par0074	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0208par0075	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0205par0076	Eskişehir MP Cemal Okan Yüksel on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0209par0079	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Before me, the speakers who talked about the matter have made a point, and I'm going to make a different point. Now, when we look at the number of rows that we have, they put the reason for this clause in this sentence, and it says: there's a reason why a person who has been damaged in order to resolve the disputes more quickly has to resort to a relevant insurance agency, to sue the situation when the problem is unresolved, or to apply for an investigation in accordance with insurance legislation. Now, in that case, we need to read the current version of this substance that's being applied. What's it say? He can file a lawsuit directly against the insurance adjuster, as well as within the limits envisioned by the mandatory financial responsibility insurance insurance policy, which means there are no preconditions, there are no conditions for a period of time. The injured, if they feel like it, will appeal to the insurance agent or sue him if he feels like it. So, what's new? He says that in a new situation: "A person who is under harm has to apply to the insurance company in writing before going to trial within the limits envisioned in the mandatory financial responsibility insurance policy. The insurance company may press charges if it does not answer the application in writing or meet the demand for an answer in 15 days at the latest from the application date. Now, we are doing this to make it quick, to ensure that the citizens get their rights faster. He says, "But here it brings a fifteen-day period." I thought, why would they do that? In a brief study, I found, members of lawmakers: I looked at the total damage done by all the insurance companies in Turkey in 2015. He paid $2 billion 300 million in damages, so he paid $2 quadrillion in damage. So, what happens now? Now, the citizen will apply to the insurance company in a more defiant way than before. How's he gonna apply? He'll apply with the notary channel, give you tuition, send you the article, wait for your answer. What happens in the meantime? It'll be a month, two months, three months. That's where the government's secret agenda comes out. If the insurance guy paid that money a month late, 46 trillion liras would go into profit due to the fact that it was in his pocket, so that's the amount that the Central Bank has been counting on the monthly reescontract interest. So they take $46 trillion out of a citizen's pocket and put it in the insurance company's pocket. So, which insurance company? Here's a lot of pain, 39 of the 62 insurance companies in Turkey, 62 percent of them are foreigners. They have a total of 26 quadrillion in capital -- 72 per cent of the old money -- 19 quadrillion. When it suits you, you want even the locals and nationals of the opposition, but even the insurance companies, you've gone after strangers. (CHEERING) What else? TÜRK TELEKOM in foreigners, ports in foreigners, car inspection station in foreigners. You sold PETKIM (PETKIM) to the accident, and the Armenians came out from under it. You even gave the ITT Garage to the Dubai. Twenty-one out of 34 deposit banks have foreign capital. Between 2002-2016, you sold 76 million square metres of paradise land to foreigners. Well, I think you look like an ostrich. Don't get me wrong, it's not because you bury your head in the sand against the rapes of Ensar; it's when it comes to carrying burdens, it's when it comes to flying. You're a nation when it suits you, and when it comes to money, you give strangers the riches of this land. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0210par0085	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 6th article is accepted. There are three motions of the same nature on the 7th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 7 of the Law Bill 273 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ahmet Yıldırım Altan Tan Mehmet Ali Aslan The signatures of the other motion are: Bornt Kuşoglu Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Bihlun Tamaylıgil Utku Kırözer Bkent Öz The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Günal Erhan Master Erkan Akçay Kamil Aydın Izzet Ulvi Ölçer Mehmet Parsak Does the Commission agree with the three motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0211par0108	We can't agree.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0210par0109	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0212par0110	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0210par0111	Mr Mehmet Parsak, MP of Afyonkarahisar on the first motion of the same nature.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0213par0113	St. Turkish nation, respected lawmakers; today, I begin with the mercy of the great God to our soldiers who have been martyred as a result of a process of betrayal, which is being carried out under the name of the mouth of the authority, again, by the name of the holy Turkish people, and by asking for patience and condolences to their relatives, family, and the mighty Turkish nation. The Turkish nation will never forgive those responsible for this, even though our braves are being taken to the ground for their country, for their flag, for the undivisable integrity of the Republic of Turkey with its state and nation. This is not the result of the Turkish nation and the Turkish state's situation in the face of aggressive terrorism. What we're going through is an inevitable consequence of the fact that power sits at the same table with terrorism, trusts terrorism and terrorists, ignores the preparations that terrorism has made for its political influence. So at this point, it is not the children of our nation who must pay the price, but it is those who sit around the same table as terrorism, and if necessary, we drink the hemlock poison. Congressmans, I'm afraid we've come to the conclusion that we're facing another bag of legislation, wherever it's held, under the motion of the 7th Amendment. The government rejects both the opposition's motions for research and change, carefully leaving all the law proposals, then comes up in two days with bags prepared, forcing the people's Parliament to discuss them, when we have so many life-threatening problems. Article 7 of the bill is recommended to change the scope of documents expressed in Article 99 of Highway 2918. So, what kind of change of coverage is this? There's been an accident, and the citizen will ask the insurance to pay for it. Of course, he'll have to submit some documents for that. The 7th article of the bill changes the scope of these documents. What's he saying? You used to submit a report on accident or damage, or an expert opinion report, and now you will present documents laid down under the general conditions of mandatory financial responsibility insurance. What do we offer? We are looking at the provisions in the general terms of the mandatory financial responsibility insurance insurance policy; under the heading of the Insurance Act and/or Insurance Act, the following statement is: After the implementation of the agreement, or on the insurance man's request, he is obliged to provide the document with all the information that is necessary and expected to determine the extent of the compensation. So, what did we do with this bill? Have we made something vague? Did we add something that didn't exist? Did we prevent a frequent unlawful act, or would we go away with a victim? Unfortunately, the answer is none of them. Here, let's fill the parliamentary agenda, no matter what, of breaking the logic of life. The result of logic. It's our call to power once again: if you really want to do something, let's bring up the research proposal for the extraordinary increase in mandatory financial responsibility insurance premiums, and you can get rid of the embarrassment that we often experience, and our nation will be free of such sloppy legislation. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we expect the government to hear and accept our proposal in this context, with the votes of our nation and the opposition under the Supreme Assembly, if it can't get rid of this surprised state. Honourable MPs, I have conveyed our views on the 7th Amendment. On this occasion, I'd like to rephrase one thing. As it is known, in universities, some of the problems that have been given through the press at times, on the basis of the allegations that it has occurred among opposing students, but was originally done in universities, from the attacks of the nested terrorist organization have been increasing more frequently recently, and in this context, the issue is no longer just at the schools, but at the courthouses where trials about them have been conducted. Yesterday, as part of a case involving a university student from the Faculty of Language and History-Geography, more than 50/some of whom have been presented as a student of the university as an anti-university student, but many of them have joined the court there by the members of the terrorist organization... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's been an attack. And I hereby present it to your attention again and condemn it. On this occasion, I salute the Veteran Assembly and you all again.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0214par0125	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. On the other proposal of the same nature, Mr. Bulent Öz, the member of Çanakkale.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0215par0128	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group for Article 7 of Bill 273, which our citizens have described as mandatory traffic insurance. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, mandatory traffic insurance is an insurance policy that guarantees financial and physical damage to third persons due to car accidents. In this type of insurance, the insurance company is obliged to pay the premium that is insured, and the insurance company is obliged to pay the damages. That's an acceptable definition in the world, and that's how we do it. So, what's the problem? The problem, my friends, is that in these and similar bills, it's not because of people's window, but because of the window of international capital companies, and unfortunately, again, the amendment was made to the General Assembly, according to the request and demand of financial capital. Dear lawmakers, 70 per cent of insurance companies operating in our country are foreign-owned companies. These companies knew what to expect from the moment they announced their desire to operate in the Turkish market. First of all, it's important to say that nowhere in the world is the purpose of profit in mandatory insurance. Compulsory insurance policies are a prerequisite for these companies to conduct insurance activities in Turkey. In addition, insurance companies know that before they begin their activities, they will be compensated for failing to support their relatives. It is unacceptable for the public conscience and the legal state to demand a legal amendment on the grounds of harm, after the insurance companies have begun their activities. In terms of insurance companies, it's not a way to lower a citizen's compensation. The AKP's arrangement is against the law. So, who are these thirds? The deceased has a mother, father, married wife, and children. Friends, you and your relatives could be on the side of traffic accidents one day. I hope this doesn't happen to you. You and your wives and children may be victims of the fingers you're about to lift. Will your conscience be at ease when the compensation rights of the relatives of the driver, who had no crime in the traffic accident, are being taken away with this bill? Foreign capital insurance companies operating in Turkey have no objection to paying compensation to relatives of the imperfect driver in the European countries they operate in, but it makes sense for them to make intense objections in Turkey and convince the co-conspirators of the financial capital. It is completely contrary to the social law state in the Constitution, which will victimize thousands of people, take away their rights, only to gain more profit from this nation. A large part of public opinion is a coup attempt on the rights of the Turkish people, even though they are unaware of the chaos and injustice the bill will bring. What insurance companies need to do is co-exist with the government to prevent traffic accidents, and instead of increasing insurance premiums for everyone, a car owner's risk of a car crash is to move to an increased premium system. The risk assessment should be taken into account by regarding issues such as the driver's age, background, and punishment points. This solution will be fair to all parties. Finally, with this bill, the insurance premiums will not go down, our citizens will continue to pay high premiums, and their compensation will be reduced, dear friends. That's why I think you guys don't want our citizens to be victims, and you'll listen to the voice of your consciences. On these grounds, I say we will vote against this bill, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0216par0137	Thank you, Mr. Oz. On the other proposal of the same nature, Mr Ahmet Yıldırım MP.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0217par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have often expressed their condolences on the security forces that have died in the war, especially in part of the country, as it has happened several times today, in the last few days and weeks. Yes, in these last days and the last few weeks, as a whole about what we've often heard of wishing God's mercy, as a matter of fact, Congress can't let one of its responsibilities slip away without a party difference, it can't escape its responsibility. If this is the country's legislature, and the country's administration is out of here, we can't get rid of the responsibility that society has put on us by just conveying our condolences to the security forces who have lost their lives. This place is increasingly losing its ability to be an institution that needs to work to prevent these deaths. In these days, when the loss of blood, young people, old people, civilians, security forces is routineized, we have also damaged the sense of justice in the community, not seeing other dead civilians and young people, not having said a word to them. Again, this Congress is not in a position to be alone, able to bypass these processes with only condolences, and to get over its responsibility. After sharing these thoughts, I would like to share our thoughts on the proposal that we have made in particular on Article 7 of the Law Bill, number 273. Precious lawmakers, on January 11, 2016, Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek used the following phrases regarding the increase in mandatory traffic insurance premiums in an interview with NTV (NTV): Today, when the country's Deputy Minister's preparedness can be combined with the kasko or can we remove the mandatory traffic insurance obligation to the insurance maker two weeks ago, we are conducting a study on this issue. There is only an insurance policy on the planned and the Commission's obligatory traffic insurance system if one of the two should be combined with the Kaskos three months ago or one of them be exempted from the other. The Deputy Prime Minister is here to say that the Finance Minister is drafting another bill or there is no consistency between the work of the Treasury Undersecretary and other statements from the Ministry of Transport. As a whole, we find it difficult to understand the difference between the statement and its practices on the same subject. Again, Mr. Lightning's response to a question motion a week ago, the necessity of traffic insurance requires that bonuses be taken to a reasonable level. Again, bonuses have to be affordable for car owners, but in our work on the Plan and Budget Commission and on the subcommittee, the general secretary of a trade organisation in the name of traffic insurance companies has defended this clause, especially in the interest of capital, insurance companies. But I'd like to point out that we're going to vote against this clause that we haven't seen in favour of the policy holders. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0218par0148	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Now, I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions on the 8th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the Law Bill 273 be changed as follows. Bornt Kuşoglu Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Bihlun Tamaylıgil Utku Cakirözer Gülay Backuper The following definition has been added to Article 5 of Article 3194, dated 8-3/5/1985, following the definition of the building. The waterway is the water gate, which naturally exists and is provided for transportation by sea vehicles. Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the Common Law Bill 273 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ahmet Yıldırım Altan Tan Mehmet Ali Aslan Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Günal Erhan Master Erkan Akçay Kamil Aydın İzzet Ulvi Router Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0219par0174	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0218par0175	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0220par0176	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0218par0177	The first speaker on the same proposal was İstanbul MP Izzet Ulvi Yölter.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0221par0179	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on behalf of our party in Article 8 of the Law Bill 273. I hereby salute the High Council and its esteemed MPs. At the very beginning of my speech, I ask God's mercy on our beloved martyrs who drink the gift of witness for the unity and unity of the nation. The way to keep the government alive is to keep humanity alive. It is clear that the value of countries will increase by the value they value to people. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that our elders lead honorable lives. We believe that policies should be followed that will not leave any elderly hungry, exposed and destitute, condemning them to loneliness, not allow them to be excluded from the community. In our country, according to TÜİK data, there are 6 million 495,239 people aged 65 and higher. The total population of the elderly increased by 8 per cent in 2014 to 8.2 per cent last year. In 2015, 8.5 per cent of the world's population was the elderly population. In 2015, Turkey ranked 66th among 167 older countries. The age-old addiction rate of 11.8 per cent in 2014, representing the number of seniors in the working age, rose to 12.2 per cent last year. According to the results of the Life Pleasure Research, the percentage of the elderly who declared their happiness dropped by 62.8% in 2014 to 56.8 per cent last year. Again, in 2014, about 18.3 percent of our elderly are poor, according to TİK data. The percentage of the elderly who expressed satisfaction with the overall health situation dropped to 45.6 per cent in 2015 at 47.5% in 2014. Older populations are increasing in Turkey. As statistics show, the elderly who are condemned to poverty by AKP governments are unhappy and desperate. At the same time, the solution to social services and problems offered to the elderly in our country is not sufficient compared to developed countries. In society, the elderly are increasingly left alone. With the change in family structure in our country, the need for institutions and institutions within social services is increasing day by day. The proliferation of these institutions is creating demand for experts who are trained in this sector, so colleges and vocational schools promote the need for new professions, such as senior care services. Due to the financial burden brought by care providers, the care of the elderly is largely conducted by family members. In our country, the family and cultural structure are different from the European countries, which still supports the care of elderly individuals within the family, but our elderly population is unfortunately exposed to violence and abuse in both institutions and their own families. It is known that some elderly people who take care of institutions are subjected to physical violence as well as verbal abuse, especially during the AKP administration. In the family, it is also among the sad facts that older people have been physically abused and abused by other family members, as well as also by the study. The cost of nursing home services is high in the face of low pensions. The nursing home must be reduced. With cooperation with municipalities, support from family physicians should be extended to social welfare networks, especially to our elderly, single elderly, who are in need of care by mapping neighborhood aging maps. Paintings that are hosted by routine elderly care checks must be delivered to the nearest health centre or care centers. In all the residential areas above certain populations, older nursing homes should be made available to provide health and social needs. For elderly and sick in need, the guardian system must be developed and expanded. Older people who apply for treatment are also expected to pay on their cell phones under 11 different names. If you have money with AKP governments, you have health. The period has begun and continues. On this occasion, I pay my respects to the High Council and you, the esteemed lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0222par0191	Thank you, Mr. Orender. On the other proposal of the same nature, İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0223par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I begin my speech, I would like to begin by condemning an incident in Istanbul yesterday. Like all pressure regimes, we saw clear yesterday how politics interfered with sports and put pressure on it. I condemn the mindset of the city of Istanbul, which I represent, while a stadium of five to ten politicians has been tragically turned on, and I wish that my team, Besiktaş, and the supporters of Besiktas, would also get over it. [[Applause from HDP and CHP rows]] Yes, if we go back to the law, we want to add a definition of the 8th article in the bag law to the building code, which is another problem for Istanbul. This is also a violation of the Coastal Law, which is not limited to Istanbul alone, but to the purpose of perforating the ecology of the entire country in the long term, the construction laws for the Canal Istanbul Project, which will destabilise the entire country in the long run. In addition, the regulation has been taken away from the municipality's water-related operations. For these reasons, the item must be removed from the draft text. An academic from Turkey, Asu Aksoy of Turkey, as part of an international architecture binali, is proposing that they talk to the biennial and do a project with the Albanianköy Municipality to manage the expansion of Istanbul to the north, and how to convince the Albanianköy Municipality to manage this urbanisation for the Albanian village district, and how to talk about it. Albanian village is an AKP municipality. Most of the agriculture, forested areas and water basins in Istanbul are in this district. These areas must be protected in order for Istanbul to survive. The Albanian People's Municipality owns this project, giving a presentation to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, but what happens at that time? The Sazlıdere area from Istanbul's dams is declared a reserve area by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, where all planning authority is removed from the municipality and even from the Metropolitan Municipality to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. In the beginning, it turns out that the work that was called the reserve against depression was not really the case, the main issue was the Canal Istanbul Project. In 2009, İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality approved the plan for the environmental order, called the constitution of Istanbul, aimed at the global and sustainable development of Istanbul. One of the most important principles of this plan was to prevent urban development, which tends to the north, and to ensure a gradual development in the east-west. Important ecological areas north of the city were aimed at protecting the city's water basins, agricultural, forestry areas, national parks and natural sites. So what happened? Once Megazevat's megaprojet was revealed, there was no more Albanian village municipality, no more environmental plan. Then there was the argument that you couldn't do it. They said: "We do it, we do it, we do it." However, the question was not whether you could pour out thousands of tons of cement or not; was it a sustainable project for a city? However, it was an ideal project to create investment opportunities for its own followers. What would happen to Istanbul, its lifeless existence, its history, its culture, the capital of Byzantines, Rome, the Ottoman capital? Water supply will be destroyed. And so do the people who put it out there. What are they saying? From Istranca, from Melen, from Sakarya, from Kızırmak, or from Bartin, we will bring water. No, it's not, guys. If the drought is here, it'll be around. In the event that you build human-sized canals, the water that the Black Sea sheds the waste of all the surrounding countries will be mingled with a crack in the canal in an earthquake. For short-term jobs, or normally worth 10,000 liras, some of the people will see death and nod to malaria, but you'll be left with the plague of Istanbul, the capital of the thousand-year-old settlement of Istanbul. My respects.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0224par0203	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the Law Bill 273 be changed as follows. Gulay Backup (Istanbul) and friends The following definition has been added to Article 5 of Article 3194, dated 8-3/5/1985, following the definition of the building. The waterway is the water gate, which naturally exists and is provided for transportation by sea vehicles. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0225par0212	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0224par0213	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0226par0214	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0224par0215	İstanbul MP Gülay Responsor on the motion.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0227par0217	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I salute you. First of all, I'd like to say that this 24-point bag has everything in it. With what we're talking about right now, Canal Istanbul is now in this bag. In fact, this bag doesn't exist, it's like a bag, it's like a bag, it's not a bag like soup, it's a soup, it's a law. Now, here are 4 articles 3194 concerning Building Law, article 4342, and 2 articles concerning the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Risk of 6306, which we, as the People's Party of the Republic, have already gone to and cancelled at the Constitutional Court. So, in total, you've brought seven articles, in fact, to create the legal infrastructure of Canal Istanbul. Where the Canal Istanbul Project is tried to be legalized, in the development plans, at the end of all the work in the public interest, all the green areas, roads and similar arrangements will be added to the end of the parks and parks in the public name, and the channel Istanbul is updated on its way. And what we call the common share of the regulation is that there are 40 per cent public-funded, public-funded, public-useable places that can only be used for the Canal Istanbul Project, which can not be used outside the Canal Istanbul Project. Now, one of these seven articles is the Mera Law. By drilling the Mera Law, the renaissance ministry can do whatever it wants and can save whatever it wants, and there is a situation in the publicisation of 360 million square metres of land, including 4 million square metres of mera. Now, once again, I want to underline that we're talking about the city of Istanbul, which has an important population of the country's population. The canal is to build Istanbul, to try to build Canal İstanbul. It means to turn the Sea of Marmara into a lake of sulfur. It literally means to destroy Istanbul, to slaughter its northern forests, to destroy the water basins. There's talk of Istanbul love. Sir, Mr. Prime Minister recently said: "When you put stones on stones in Istanbul, let people think more about it." For the past twenty-two years, I first congratulate you on the fact that the AKP mentality has noticed Istanbul today, and we say good morning to Mr. Prime Minister. About that dagger on the halic, we first said, "Don't stab this bridge like a dagger on the side of Istanbul." We talked about Istanbul's side -- in our previous talks -- and we said, "Don't let the towers of Ranta next to the minarets of Sinan, the architect, which extend to the sky." You allowed the towers of Ranta.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0228par0223	The towers are in Ataşehir, and the towers in Ataşehir, and the towers in Ataşehir, are not in any other place.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0227par0224	The two great new cities you plan to build around Istanbul are actually the greatest human disaster that can be done to Istanbul. It's not natural, it's a human-handed disaster. For years, the predictions of social opposition have been taking place. As not all bridges on the Bosphorus of Istanbul have reduced the city's transportation problem, rather it has increased the turmoil, increased the number of vehicles, traffic, and air pollution. The population growth in Istanbul has increased by 16 per cent, while private driving has increased by 16 per cent. According to this, in 2020, we would need 7 bridges and 70 bridges in 2040. Transport is a science; city problems can be solved by science; you cannot solve the problem of transportation by building roads, by building bridges. Istanbul is a unique city with eight and a half hundred years of history, a beautiful geography, history, and culture, with an eye for the world. This city is too precious and special to abandon in the economic or random interests of companies or individuals. I salute all of you with love.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0229par0229	Thank you, Mr. Backup. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0230par0231	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0229par0232	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, no motions. I submit the 8th article to your votes. All those in favor... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions on the 9th article. I'm going to read these proposals of the same nature, and I'm going to process them together, and I'm going to make a separate commitment to those who have motions, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the Common Law Bill 273 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ahmet Yıldırım Altan Tan Mehmet Ali Aslan Nursel Aydoğan The signatures of the other motion are: Bornt Kuşoglu Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Bihlun Tamaylıgil Utku Cakirözer Gülay Backuper Mehmet Günal Erhan Master Erkan Akçay Kamil Aydın Izzet Ulvi Ölvir Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Does he add a commission to the same motions?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0231par0254	We can't agree.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0229par0255	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0232par0256	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0229par0257	On the first motion of the same nature, Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Alderman of Kahramanmarash.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0233par0259	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party regarding the 9th Amendment of Law Bill 273. I hereby salute and salute the General Assembly and our humble citizens who follow us. Dear MPs, in twenty-four hours, unfortunately, we have seven martyrs in Şırnak, Hani, Dağlıca and Nusaybin, 56 wounded. I pray for God's mercy. And, of course, I don't want to say that the Prime Minister of the period, Mr. Erdogan, came to the place, we vomited blood, drank hemlock poison, drank cranberry syrup, went on the road, swallowed what was tied up in our throats. In terms of the solution process, I say, "If you hadn't continued like this, I wish you hadn't swallowed the ones that were tied up in your throats." Unfortunately, the result is obvious. Dear MPs, our suffering is great, and although pain and tears do not make any sense, I would like to make a brief statement here today regarding the 9th article. The 11th article of Building Law 3914 is related to the free abandonment of land and property belonging to the municipality and private administration, which are found in squares, roads, parks, greenfields, parking structures, terminals, public transportation stations. In addition to the term "water road" to this article, it is intended to eliminate legal problems that may be created to start the construction of a channel known as the Canal Istanbul Project. Dear lawmakers, although this project has been publicly announced as a project that has been discovered for the first time by the AKP as a crazy project in the past, this is not the case. See, the Istanbul Bosphorus alternative waterway project goes all the way back to the Roman Empire. In correspondence between Bithynia Governor Pliny and Emperor Trajan, the Sakarya river transport project was first mentioned. Since the 16th century, the idea of the Black Sea and the Marmara (Marmara) bonding with an artificial throat has been raised six times. One of the three major projects that the Ottoman State planned to implement was to connect the Sakarya River and Lake Sapanca to the Black Sea and to the Marmara, as it came to the agenda in 1550. Although two great architects of the period, architect Sinan and Nicola Parisi, began preparations, it was not possible to start this project because of the wars. Dear MPs, the Canal Istanbul Project was recently proposed for the first time in TÜBİTAK's Science and Technical magazine, in an article published in August 1990, 12 years before the formation of the AKP. The title of the article by the Minister of Energy of the period, Ascendant Ömm. I was thinking about the Istanbul Canal. The canal of Istanbul, which began at Lake Pashmece and crossed west of Lake Terkos, was designed to be 47km long, 100m wide on the surface of the water, and 25m deep. In 1994, the late Prime Minister Bkent Ecevit proposed opening a channel between the Black Sea and Marmara on the European Side of İstanbul, and the project was part of the Democratic Left Party's election brochure, the Channel Project of the Republic and DSP. Therefore, the AKP's Canal Istanbul Project is a copy project, its patent does not belong to the AKP, it is not original. Prior to the June 12, 2011 general elections, the current Prime Minister, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, announced the crazy project, which, five years later, was kept secret as to when the tender of Canal İstanbul would be held. Canal İstanbul is an alternative waterway project to İstanbul Bosporus, as it is known. The channel is planned to be located between Küçükçekmece and Albanianköy in a 453 millionkm area connecting the Black Sea and the Marmara. It's 400 meters wide. Dear MPs, of course, this is not just a project that concerns Turkey, it is a project that concerns the world. So it will have a lot of impacts on the proclivities and the punctuation. I salute you all with a very serious consideration, a wide assessment of the participation of all sections.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0234par0268	Thank you, Mr. Tor. On the other proposal of the same nature, Istanbul MP Gülay Responsor.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0235par0271	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. We are taking a pledge on the articles AKP is trying to legislate Canal İstanbul. Life-sources in the north of Istanbul are not to be destroyed for hundreds of years of runt projects in the Ministry of the Ministry. What will happen when the sewer system, which still works well and sends its waste from under the Bosphorus, is opened up to the depths of the Black Sea? There's talk of speeding up sea traffic when Canal Istanbul is held. After the canal is built, will you open a parallel channel to Çanakkale Bosphorus, when the ships will build up in Marmara? Do you have any idea how much energy and tsunami can be affected by a possible large Marmara earthquake when a fault breaks at the bottom of the sea? Do you know the effects of geological changes on the canal and the surrounding settlements? If the ship sinks or burns on a channel like this, what kind of rescue is there to do? Do you have any work on this? I'll tell you what, I don't. Even in your studies under the name Physics Study, you did not receive advice from marine scientists. Istanbul's population, which was estimated to rise to 50 million in 2050, was 1/100, with the city's resources and ecological borders being considered in 2009. The 5,000-scale framework plan was limited to 16 million. Now you're drilling into your own plan. And we can say that Istanbul has not been persecuted like this. Will the forest, the wetlands, or the natural green area remain on the European side of Istanbul after İstanbul? Has the negative impact of the project been detected by possible historical and archaeological values? Do you have any work on these archaeological values? Aren't you ashamed, at least, of the wonderful nature, the sea and the extraordinary ecosystem that Allah has given us? In a study that will change geography and topography in bulk, do you plan to get opinions from university discipline, city planners, architects? Do you ever think about bringing this up in public? Is it not clear that if the project were to take place, only one of 100 hot spots in Europe, the forests of Istanbul, the wetlands, the dunes, the mecha and the heaths, and the species of plants, animals, and birds, that the Turkish throat system itself and dynamics would also be turned upside down? Now, what I want to ask you is, you do this kind of work, you want to do this kind of work -- I believe it can never be done -- but what's the yield? Why do you want to do this project? How can you do such a study when the channel is a major engineering job and no work has been done for you? But we'll do our part again, and we'll tell you what to do scientifically. Istanbul is the wrong urban development policies and...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0236par0276	You can't imagine what we've done, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0235par0277	It's obvious what you're doing. History will surely take account of what you have done and what you have not done. Our grandchildren and our children will have both hands on you, I assure you. Istanbul's life resources must be protected. Second, a balanced population and employment structure must be created. Istanbul can't be ruled according to your taste. Istanbul, Istanbul, where the works of the architect Sinan. The works of Rome, the Ottomans, Byzantines, the most beautiful monuments in history. If you are a lover of Istanbul, you leave no trace of such disasters. We will continue to take care of nature, of man, of the environment. Even if you use community engineering to use all kinds of media, EC trolls, we'll continue to enlighten our people. We believe, and some of you will come out and say no to this plunder. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0237par0282	Thank you, Mr. Backup. On the other proposal of the same nature, Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0238par0285	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Of course, we're going to talk about a change in Article 11 of the Law on Creation 3194. This article adds the word "wayway" after the word "way." You all know, other fellow speakers have expressed that there is only one reason why the word "path" is added: to create a legal basis for the Channel Project. The Canal Istanbul Project, as everyone knows, has been on Turkey's agenda for nearly four or five years, since 2011. Other speakers have already stated that it was presented as a crazy project. It's been discussed since 2011. Let me give you an example of the discussions: For example, SODEV had organized a symposium in 2011, and he said, "Is it the crazy project or the rant project?" Experts, various NGOs, at that symposium, said they wished that this project would not end up as a Rant project at the end of the debate, but the general idea was that this project would end as a runt project, which is our opinion as a party at this level. Yeah, there's a lot to talk about when it comes to the Canal Istanbul Project. However, I come from a very hot area, from Diyarbakir. I come from a province where there are conflicts. As MP of such a province, the voters who are listening to us now do not, of course, approve of us speaking here on a channel project in Istanbul, in a geography where dozens of people die every day. They're sending us criticism, intense criticism of these conversations, through social media, or in various forms, which they're quite right about. On one side of the country, as I've just said, when dozens of people die every day, every day, when our people are in great pain, as if nothing is happening in this country, as if nothing is going to happen in this country, as if nothing is going to happen in this country, this is not something that we should be able to talk about here, not in terms of the general structure of the Assembly, not in a way that we would want to be able to express our condolences. For example, in Diyarbakir, Suriçi, the operations ended a full month ago, dear friends. In a month, there have been no funerals from Surichi to nearly 30, which have been buried roughly a month since the funerals were dug up by civilians who lost their lives during the conflict and were found there. We've interviewed the governor's office, we've spoken to the deputy governor, we've spoken to the attorney general, unfortunately, so far nothing. Parents who haven't received their children's funeral have been there for over a month. These funerals have been waiting there for three and a half months. That's not acceptable. I'm not saying that because something's gonna change. I wish after this talk, the ruling party lawmakers would make a phone call to the state's attorney general's office, ask them why those funerals had been held for a month; they would ask how a woman who had lost her life -- when they were being transported -- came out of the rubble on the Tigris River. This is happening in this country, in this geography, dear friends. Those families have been in pain for three and a half months. You can't hold our families responsible for what's been done. You can't develop a process of suffering families from these events. And if you want a result of that, there's nothing in it for you, dear friends. But you increase anger, but you grow hatred, but you end up living together, and you end up thinking about common life. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0239par0294	Thank you, Mr. Aydoğan.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0240par0295	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit03spe0239par0296	Congressmans, I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. Those who accept the motions... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0239par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough during the voting of the three motions in the same manner on Article 9 of the Law Bill 273. I'll re-offer the motions to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motions... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motions are not accepted. Members of the law, we now resume the talks of Bill 273, where we left off. The commission is in place. The government is in place. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 9th article is accepted. Congressmans, there are four motions on the 10th article, three of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the Common Law Bill 273 shall be changed in the following manner. İlknur İnceöz Ramazan Can Mustafa Ilıcan Bashir Atalay Mehmet Doğan Kubat Halis Dalklıç The third joke of Article 18 of Law No. 10 - 3194 added the waterway signage to the road's access control outside the highway to arrive after the declaration of the road. Now that I have three proposals that I'm going to read, I'm going to process them together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to those who have motions, or I'm going to have them read their reasons. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the Common Law Bill 273 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ahmet Yıldırım Altan Tan Mehmet Ali Aslan Müslüm Doğan The signatures of the other motion are: Bornt Kuşoglu Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Bihlun Tamaylıgil Utku Cakirözer Gülay Backuper The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Günal Erhan Usta Kamil Aydın Open Mind Izzet Ulvi Router Does he add a commission to the same motions?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0241par0037	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0239par0038	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0242par0039	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0243par0040	Motive...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0239par0041	I'm reading the reason for the first motion of the same nature: The 10th article of the bill adds the definition of "waterway" to Building Law 3194, thus opening the way for the arrangement of the land under the Kanal Istanbul Project to be met through 18 implementations. In addition, similar powers can be used for waterways to be announced from now on. It is not right that such an important matter, especially Istanbul, should be passed without a public debate, without an opinion from NGOs and professional rooms. The project, which aims to create a 2nd Istanbul Strait and fill it with trade centers and housing projects, will negatively affect Turkey's ecological balance, and the balance between the Black Sea's cold and sweet water and the warm and salty water that reaches from the Mediterranean to Marmara, and from there to the Black Sea. On the other proposal of the same nature, Istanbul MP Gülay Responsor.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0244par0048	Dear President, members of lawmakers, I respectfully salute you. The people of Istanbul and the people of Turkey must make a choice, we will choose either the canal or Istanbul. We choose Istanbul, we don't want the canal. When there is a canal, we have to give up Istanbul. Istanbul will have no living space because Istanbul will run out of water. The historic peninsula, as we call it, will become an island that will be divided by the canal, and the fresh water will have nothing to do with the Istranca waters, and the island alone will have a security problem. In any battle, the bombing of the bridges alone will leave Thrace and the island unsecured. This problem in Istanbul right now is not a single problem, but it is just a ring of these random projects that are being sacrificed every day throughout Turkey, with the number growing and the number of people thinking about just the runt. Turkish throats have a system that is unique in the world. The level of saltiness of the Black Sea and the Marmara, the pressure rates, the growth of fish... One grows at 100 to 150 meters, one grows at 25 meters, but a natural order is established, which solves all problems, including the currents between them and the sewer order in Istanbul. For the first time in the world, the naval science began with the Martian (Marsili) in the Bosphorus of Istanbul. A city has to be planned on a macro scale. Even a square meter of the city can't be thought of apart from another part of the city, and the city is like an organism, each square meter interacting with each other. The Canal Istanbul Project cannot be viewed as a channel belonging to the region as its medium and long-term effects on the city, with national and international dimensions. With your budget of 13 billion dollars, you can build a paradise neighborhood for Southeast, East Anatolia, Mediterranean, Central Anatolia, Aegean. Do you want to increase Istanbul's population today to 30 million, 50 million, to 20 million today? What is it you want to do? Why do you want to raise Istanbul to 30 million, 50 million, when the cities in Europe are mentioned at one or two million? The underground waters and blistering basins, which are fed by Gökos Lake, will be negatively affected, and it is clear that you and Canal Istanbul are still speculating on the land today. The Canal talks about the possibility of 10 major earthquakes where the canal was released at the time of the earthquake in the settlements you planned to build on both sides of Istanbul. Today, Istanbul is an earthquake city. You're trying to pass projects that will lead to new disasters instead of taking precautions. While rainwaters glide underground in natural conditions and reach shallow streams and seas in small quantities, this rate turns upside down where urbanization is, and you're trying to build new urban spaces, especially where water basins are. You have no right to disrupt this system, connecting the Black Sea and the Marmara, which has led to sea transport and has tried to feed each other with currents. In addition, the Montrö Agreement is one of Turkey's most important and powerful international agreements. In the event that the Channel re-opens with Istanbul, if the nation comes up with a result against our country, the plague will be on your head. What you plan to bring with the next article is all work related to the transformation of areas that are at risk of disaster -- number 6306 -- and all the material you plan to bring zoning amnesty is against the nation, and we will not say yes to any clause against our people. You might be trying to convince people right now with fancy projects and fancy words. Three days later, the cap falls off, looks bald, everyone sees the truth. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0245par0059	Thank you, Mr. Backup. On the other proposal of the same nature, Mr. Müslüm Doğan, İzmir MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0246par0063	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the Canal Istanbul Project has not been identified in terms of economic and geometric conditions, its impact analysis has not been done enough, its destruction has upset the balance of nature with the mera fields and the publicisations that it has destroyed, it has directly affected its living life in Marmara and the Black Sea, so it also stands before us as an international problem if it is to be done. In addition, it is against the law to transfer the areas of mera, barracks, and pedestrians to the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications and not subject to supervision. Dear lawmakers, waterways are a geographical formation, and it cannot be compressed into a definition that can be written the way to the Building Law. With these arrangements, such restrictions of the Coastal Law, which refers to Law 3194 to the road of water, are required to be removed. This solution, which will facilitate the implementation of the Canal Istanbul Project, is clearly contrary to the Coastal Law. Because, according to the Coastal Law, it is not possible to have private property land on the coast, so that the coastal areas should be subject to Article 18 of the Building Law. This is a violation of law, morality and science. Again, another issue is the prevention of selling artificial waterways on treasure and public land on the grounds. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid this bill has no explanation for the nature of the process of artificial waterways built on private land that have been created together for the purpose. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are trying to give legal status to the transfer of all living water to companies under the 8th article of the bill. The 9th article is being taken away from local governments' investments in water. The goal is to buy water in the market and turn it into a meta that can be sold. The 10th article, however, appears as a partnership law that regulates the transport of water between the valleys and the integrated use of the basin by companies. The integrated use of the water basin is trying to legalise the transport of all productions that require water, the commercialization of water. The Canal Istanbul Project is a project that is not only being organised, but also against the law as its international goals are being set up. Dear MPs, a $13 billion cost table of Canal Istanbul -- as stated earlier -- has been created, except for the cost of the project. With this 13 billion dollars, with every $1 billion you invest in 13 cities, you prevent unemployment, prevent immigration. When you divide $1 billion for a lot, $1 billion for a billion, $1 billion for a billion for Yozgat, $1 billion for a billion, $1 billion for a billion, you stop the migration in Anatolia from spreading west. Dear lawmakers, consider now a channel of 470 meters [470 m] wide, and the legal and geometric state of this channel, which is 25 meters [25 m] deep, has been unresolved, and the property problem here is being resolved by the 18th article. Indeed, this is contrary to the Civil Law. What are you going to do before the property issues around you are resolved, the routes are set, where you've already licensed for HES projects, licensed for waterways in the future? That's not clear in the law, you didn't specify that. In that sense, there are really, really serious problems. The fact that the project, really, does not appear as a holistic project without legal analysis, including the international dimension, in terms of economic impact analysis, is also a problem. I know the AKP better, who rejects geography, who competes. We urge the AKP to give up that attitude. Projects will cease to be a social project if they are found without any opinions from the rooms, without the opinion of NGOs, without the study of their usefulness and efficiency. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0247par0075	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. Now, I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the Common Law Bill 273 shall be changed in the following manner. İlknur İnceöz (Aksaray) and his friends The third joke of Article 18 of Law No. 10 - 3194 added the waterway signage to the road's access control outside the highway to arrive after the declaration of the road. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0248par0083	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0247par0084	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0249par0085	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0247par0086	Is there a speaker on the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0250par0087	Motive...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0247par0088	I'm reading the reason: The proposal aims to meet the partnership share of the road and waterway construction of access control outside the highway. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 10th article has been accepted. There are three proposals on the 11th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the Common Law Bill 273 be changed in the following way. Bornt Kuşoglu Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Bihlun Tamaylıgil Utku Çakırözer Okan Gaytancıoğlu The following temporary clause is added to Law 11-3194. "A risky area, under Article 5393 of the Law on the Transformation of Law No. 15-16/5/2012, and under Article 73 of the Law on the Transmutation of Afet Risked Areas under the Law, is provided for urban transformation and development and development area, under Article 16/6/2005, and on the basis of a temporary application of electricity, and on the basis of natural electricity and other processes, under which are set by the Law on Resuscitation and Use of Cultural Moving Influences. Interim electricity, water and gas connection and subscriptions to these structures do not constitute any earned rights. According to the first joke, the temporary subscription period cannot exceed five years. However, if transformation and renovation practices are extended, temporary subscriptions continue during the implementation, not for more than three years. These provisions are applied in terms of structures made before 1/11/2015." Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the Common Law Bill 273 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ahmet Yıldırım Altan Tan Mehmet Ali Aslan Müslüm Doğan The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Günal Erhan Usta Kamil Aydın Open the Mind Izzet Ulvi UIdirector See Lightning Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0251par0120	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0247par0121	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0252par0122	I disagree.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0247par0123	You have given a very sharp answer, Mr. Secretary. I do not agree. Now on the first motion of the same nature, Congressman Baki Simsek.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0253par0126	Mr. President, I've made a pledge on Article 11 of the Law Bill 273. I hereby salute the Holy Turkish nation and the Grand Assembly. Every day, the traitors, who have increased their bitch attack, the bastards who have taken up ambush, continue to kill without a break. The sons of bitches who left their married brides a couple of months old, underage children orphaned, without a father, today dropped two martyrs' fires on our Mersin. In the clash between security forces and PKK terrorists in Şırnak, news has come from Gülnar. No word is enough to describe this bitter painting. I hereby offer my blessings and my condolences to our Mersinian martyrs and to all our heroes who have put their lives on the line for the uninterrupted integrity of the land. Precious lawmakers, when we examine Law 6306 on risky areas released in 2012, the rights structures in risky areas are not given electricity, water and natural gas and services are halted by institutions and organizations if the Ministry, TOKI or Administration demands them during the implementation. This law was passed by the AKP government. Now, according to Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Afet Risk No. 6306, under Article 733 of Law and Law 5393, construction structures, such as urban transformation and development fields, are not allowed to use structures or structures in areas designated as regeneration areas, provided they are allowed to apply for transformation and renovation practices, and are temporarily equipped with electricity, water and natural gas connections and subscriptions. A law, which is the opposite of the law that was tried today, was adopted about a few years ago. So the bill, which was passed a few years ago from institutions to parliament, without the necessary preliminary work being done, is soon to be reformed. The proposals and proposals were discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission, without being discussed in the secondary commissions. In addition, the regulations are not only fiscal provisions, but are subject to issues that require detailed discussion of sectoral, professional and legal expertise in the relevant residency commissions. In this bill, 16 different ministries and institutions are involved in different issues. Dear lawmakers, I believe the law on zoning practices and urban transformation should be renewed from beginning to end. The bag is not able to be dealt with within the law, and it is not possible to come up with laws from rooms, NGOs and commissions without opinions. Unfortunately, the TOKI is acting on the mind of a merchant, a contractor instead of an urban transformation. Unfortunately, at the entrance of cities, the treasures are built into concrete blocks of concrete, which have nothing to do with the city's identity, its texture, its architecture. As we drive through the entrances of the city, the buildings were built by TOKI. We do not want to see what we might call buildings. You've been running the country for 14 years, but you haven't been able to implement a single urban transformation project in Mersin, still my constituency. In the outskirts of the city, irregular constructions in particular over the last thirty and forty years must be transformed immediately. A big city needs to get rid of this ugly image. TOKI should spend all its energy on transformation and do what citizens and contractors can't do. Contractors can also build empty plots, as long as our government lends on the right terms, and the citizen owns a dwelling. Another important issue is the condition of our forest workers. Unfortunately, there are no temporary forest workers involved in subcontractorial law. Six months of work and six months of work, forest workers are unable to take advantage of the law because they are not 12 months old. In this case, thousands of forest workers across the country are victims. These workers need to be covered by the law and secured by the state in some way. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I end my words, I salute the High Council with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0254par0138	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On the other proposal of the same nature, Mr. Müslüm Doğan, the Izmir MP...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0255par0141	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, all our friends who have spoken since this bill came to Parliament have spoken about the dysfunction and irregularity of the bag bill. We have yet another bill of a bag of laws that the government ignores the will of Parliament, the principles and procedures of making laws. We're dealing with a bill that has everything in it that needs traffic, from urban transformation to crazy projects. Dear lawmakers, the item I'm talking about aims to force citizens into urban transformation by adding a temporary clause to Building Law 3194. According to Article 11, temporary electricity, water, and natural gas can be subscribed to unauthorized structures, provided that urban transformation is maintained. First of all, considering the victims of squatters so far, it may seem like a positive arrangement at first glance. However, we have also learned from the AK PARTY's power that at first glance or last glance, nothing positive can be expected. Dear lawmakers, look, they've already passed the slum law. Law 2981 has been set up in accordance with Articles 3364, 3290, which have changed some of their articles. We're still talking about the slum, and we're still talking about urban data. I also want to point out that we can't solve these problems. It's said to the public that as long as you destroy the structures you're sitting on and allow us to provide you with a runt from them, we'll bind you with electricity, water, and natural gas, but we'll make it temporary so that you don't get comfortable. In fact, this subscription is not to be seen as a earned right, it is also to the specified law. So for now, we're wiring you with electricity, water and natural gas, but don't get me wrong, we'll put you back in front of the door when the time comes. There is one important thing that ministers and bureaucrats who draft the bill miss: electricity, water and natural gas cannot be conditioned like that, all of which are basic public services. Besides, Turkey has also pledged to grant its citizens sufficient housing and housing by ratifying the European Social Condition and Economic, Social and Cultural Rights Convention. If you claim to be a social state, you have to give it to all citizens, especially the poor. Therefore, this temporary item brought in by the bag bill is contrary to our international human rights obligations. All those who sit at this time and claim to be the public's deputy must object to the service of basic services as a blessing. Dear MPs, cities are a living space, not a construction site. As all of us have witnessed closely, throughout the AK PARTY rule, the country has been surrounded by construction sites. Either by the hands of TOKI, or by the pursuit of subcontractors, their habitats have been sold, destroyed, and citizens have been forced to live in one type of apartment. In any urban transformation project, the needs of the public have not been cared for, and the people have been condemned to a life beyond what they've ever been accustomed to. People who object to this life and try to protect their homes and neighborhoods have been confronted by police and police officers who have been used as guards of capital. Apparently, the AK PARTI is planning to reduce citizens' response and force urban transformation by using electricity, water, natural gas subscriptions to this item in the law, which is not the right course of action. AK PARTY will have to give up this position. As I put an end to my words, I pay my respects to all of you, saying that this clause, as well as the entire bill, is unacceptable by our side.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0256par0149	Thank you, Mr. Doğan.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0257par0150	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit04spe0256par0151	I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0256par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough during the voting of the two motions of the same nature over Article 11 of the Law Bill 273. I'll re-offer the motions to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the motions... Those who don't agree... There are enough decisions, the motions are not accepted. We now resume negotiations with Bill 273 in rows. The commission and the government are in place. I'm reading the other motion on Article 11: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the Common Law Bill 273 be changed in the following way. Bulent Kuşoglu (Ankara) and his friends The following temporary clause is added to Law 11-3194. "A risky area, under Article 5393 of the Law on the Transformation of Law No. 15-16/5/2012, and under Article 73 of the Law on the Transmutation of Afet Risked Areas under the Law, is provided for urban transformation and development and development area, under Article 16/6/2005, and on the basis of a temporary application of electricity, and on the basis of natural electricity and other processes, under which are set by the Law on Resuscitation and Use of Cultural Moving Influences. Interim electricity, water and gas connection and subscriptions to these structures do not constitute any earned rights. According to the first joke, the temporary subscription period cannot exceed five years. However, if transformation and renovation practices are extended, temporary subscriptions continue during the implementation, not for more than three years. These provisions are applied in terms of structures made before 1/11/2015." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0258par0015	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0256par0016	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0259par0017	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0256par0018	Now on the motion, Mr. Hussain Yıldız.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0260par0020	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 11 of the Law Bill 273. I give you all my love and respect. Under the provision of the Law 3194, temporary material will be added to it and will temporarily connect electricity, natural gas, water to houses without a building license, without a permit, without a permit -- in a language that you can understand -- to slums for five years. Dear friends, places like this are the dwellings of our citizens who migrated from East, Southeast, and Central Anatolia, where our less-income citizens live. I mean, he came here twenty years ago, settled in Istanbul, settled in İzmir, settled in Ankara, Adana, Mersin, poor people. He's built a slum on his own budget, and he's lived a life of no electricity, no natural gas, for 20 years. Now, it's 2016, and those areas, of course, they've been runts. You have brought this material temporarily, and you say: "I will bind you with electricity, water, and natural gas, and you will give you a pledge, and you have to give it as a guardian in urban transformation." What does that mean? So we'll give you electricity, water, natural gas for five years. Five years from now, I'm going to give this place to my fellow contractors or give it to the TOKI, and I'm going to give it to 25 percent to my contractors. Those poor people. I was just in Aydin last week, and I was in Muammar Aksoy district, and we came face to face with your women's arms. In addition to this particular clause, I would like to ask the women's arms of the AKP because they are your women's arms who understand their condition. He told me this: Yes, Hussein, these people are poor. We're giving something with forks in the election. But with this law, you're getting it back with the ladle now, dear friends. What's going on? I'm asking you. About 50 per cent, 60 per cent of the people living in those slums are voting for the AKP. I mean, you guys are making a runt with this stuff. Who are you building it for? Not to the poor, not to the poor, but to make the rich contractor more rich, dear friends. Dear friends, you know, during your time, a lot of seats were sold on the model. After the place was paid for, those structures didn't happen, they didn't. You made a law, and you said, "No contractor can sell a place without a building permit, without a floor altitude." You did right, I agree, it's true, but your contractors, they built those houses, they gave them to people, they took the deeds, they moved into those houses, and I'm sorry to say, there's no natural gas, there's no water, there's no electricity, there's no water. You know why? The city won't tie him up because he doesn't have a building permit. Let's withdraw this bill, eliminate those terms. I mean, it's the constitutional right of a citizen. You, as a government, have to attach electricity, water and natural gas to that citizen. On the other hand, the building license has been issued and the construction has been completed, but that contractor can't get his residence due to tax debt and SEC debt. What's going on, who's it to? It's happening to the citizen there. Let's pull this bill, add these clauses, support as the Republican People's Party, and together we can save all 300,000 families. This way, I give you all my love and respect. Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0261par0029	Thank you, Mr. Star. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 12th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the release of the statement from the 12th article, which stipulates that an additional clause should be added to the Law of Social Aid and Solidarity Law No. 3294, dated 29/5/1986, of which there is 273 rows. Bornt Kuşoglu Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a year and two years of changes to the terms of the 12th article of the Common Law Bill 273. Mehmet Günal Erhan Usta Kamil Aydın Open your mind, Izzet Ulvidirector Mustafa Kalaycı Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the additional clause, which is expected to be added to Law 3294, under the 12th Article of the Common Law Bill 273. 5 A.D.A.K. - The cash established by the Social Aid and Solidarity Fund Board is registered in the home of those who had used it at least once during the last year before they started working on regular social benefits, through the Turkish Employment Institution system, which is available under Article 60 of Law No.510 (c) subsidiary (1) of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. They are subject to vocational training or other active labor programmes by the Turkish Employment Agency. If the income of people who have been placed in vocational education or active labor programmes or jobs offered by the Turkish Employment Agency is under the minimum wage, the cash set by the Social Aid and Solidarity Fund will continue to be completed at a minimum wage to provide regular social benefits. From those who do not accept third-time jobs offered by Turkey's Employment Agency to fit the person's experience, quality and social-cultural status, the transfer of regular social aid provided by the Social Aid and Solidarity Fund Board has been cut off for a year from the beginning of the month, following the detection of the situation through the integrated social welfare system through the Turkish Business Institution database. Social benefits and the procedures for implementing this clause are determined by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Security, and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ahmet Yıldırım Altan Tan Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Ali Aslan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0262par0056	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0261par0057	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0263par0058	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0261par0059	İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu on the motion...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0264par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the 12th article added to the bag bill. A provision has been made for people who receive additional benefits from the Social Aid and Solidarity Act to be given training through İSKUR and to be encouraged to find employment. According to this arrangement, the state's Social Aid and Solidarity Act provides bonus support for the employer who employs aid and monthly areas. First, social benefits in Turkey are unfortunately distributed far from a right-based approach. From the day he comes to power, the AKP is handing out social benefits to poor people who are more likely to vote for him or to be subject to him. It is known that social benefits are not planned to solve poverty and be a solution to unemployment, but are used to create policies that people are dependent on the state by not producing effective and lasting social policies. Each election period is the EC PARTY, which uses aid as an election investment of its own power. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy has also confessed to the dysfunction of social policies, showing that 39 per cent of the population is in need of assistance in its presentation book on the 2015 budget. In Turkey, one of the four people is still poor, and the poverty of women and children in particular has become much deeper. Therefore, the AKP does not in any way produce a social policy for its citizens based on rights and social protection. In this case, the Law on Social Aid and Solidarity is a law that is already dysfunctional and cannot serve a citizen. Anything that can be done based on this law will serve to deepen the current inequality. First, systemically, social policy programmes of the state must be transformed. The second problem is that employers' bonuses are being taken over by the Ministry in order for people on welfare to get a job. This arrangement, which seems to be in favor of unemployed and poor people, is, again, shaped by public language to the employer. The state's responsibility for the employer's bonus will help the employer reduce labour-force costs with the government's budget, which is clearly taxed by the public. This is not what the government needs to do in order to find a solution to unemployment, so it is not to relieve the employer's burden. First, an arrangement must be made for the more effective use of unemployed people from the unemployment fund, which is only 10 per cent for unemployed people. After that, the state must take separate measures to fight unemployment. Another point is the thought of people getting jobs through the training of İSKUR. This area has been obscured. How many people have ever been able to find employment with the vocational training of the Turkish Employment Association? It's obvious how ineffective these vocational trainings are. Thus, there is an effort, in a sense, to find cheap labor for employers. It also shows how superficial the government's effort to eliminate unemployment is. Turkey's biggest problem is unemployment, which is being told that the solution is being produced through vocational training courses. Thus, the failure to accept the three proposed jobs may be an imposition of cheap, unsecured and unguarded work to the unemployed. Therefore, dear friends, we ask that the clause be removed from the bill and rejected. My respects.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0265par0070	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a year and two years of changes to the terms of the 12th article of the Common Law Bill 273. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0266par0077	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0265par0078	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0267par0079	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0265par0080	On the motion, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0268par0082	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on the 12th Amendment of the bill, number 273, which is being discussed. On this occasion, I salute you all. In the article, insurance premiums are envisioned for employers who employ people who benefit from social benefits. An insurance premium, calculated over minimum wage, will be covered by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy for a year. The Council of Ministers will be able to extend it for a year. In addition, during the last year before he started work, the household of those with at least one-time use of cash regular social benefits has been organised to be subject to vocational education or other active labour force programmes through the integrated social welfare system of those with less than one-third of the monthly income per person and who are able to work. Those who do not accept vocational education or active labour market programmes or the job offered by the Turkish Employment Agency for the third time are expected to be cut off for a year. As the National Movement Party, we feel it is necessary to make a more comprehensive arrangement, although we have a positive approach to the arrangement brought in. The National Movement Party has been bringing up for years the start of a family allowance programme, half the minimum wage, until each member of the family gets a job, and first of all, it has been on the agenda for homewives, and it is among the commitments that we make in our election declarations that we make priority and priority. This is the way a family without an employee in our country should be organized so that no household can be left without income. Instead of providing an institutional identity for the fight against poverty, the AKP has made the issue a place of abuse and has watched poverty deepen. Our country does not have the integrity of the social welfare and social services system. The system organises these benefits, not as a right, but as a blessing. The system is available for pleasure and political use. The system is viewed by the AKP as a means of political rant, in which it is being exploited without prejudice. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy, on the other hand, also includes social welfare programmes that are still run by different organisations, particularly municipalities. However, there are some who have extra help, just as there are real needy people who can't get welfare. Social benefits and social services must be structured as a modern and integrated system, where the social protection information system is developed, allowing the real poor to benefit from social welfare programmes in line with justice. During the 14-year period of AKP governments in our country, no social order could be established that would free the citizen from poverty and provide the right to share incomes. According to the Finnish Ministry of Family and Social Policy's 2012 Association of Social Aid Statistics, there are 6m768,126 households and 23m68,942 people living in the Integrated Social Services Information System, referred to as the inventory of unemployment. As the Ministry of the Family publishes these data every six months, the increase in the number of poor will be intimidating, which is now unpublished, and the release will be removed from the website. Again, Turkey's Family Construction Research in Turkey, which the Ministry of Family and Social Policy had built in 10,578 homes and announced in February 2013, also revealed the situation of income in our country and the sad state of income distribution. Data from the study show that 61.2 per cent of the houses in Turkey are trying to survive on $1,200 per month and below. Only 1,2 per cent of the households' income is 5,600 liras and more. The AKP's government is trying to cover up a grave painting from its work and research on real data. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0269par0091	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask for the release and demand the release of the notice from the 12th article, which stipulates that an additional clause should be added to the Law of Social Aid and Solidarity Law No. 3294, dated 29/5/1986, of the 273 rows under discussion. Bulent Kuşoglu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0270par0098	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0269par0099	Does the government agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Ankara MP Bulent Kuşoğlu on the motion.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0271par0103	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all at this hour of the evening. Dear friends, in my speech on this entire bag of laws, one of the most important parts is social security, social benefits. This is a very important issue for Turkey, especially when I told you that there is no system for social aid, that there are problems, and that very important amounts are being given as aid. We need to connect this to a system. It's a positive-looking substance, a substance that encourages the work of people with jobs, which is their goal, but there seems to be problems in practice, there are employers among you, there are people who deal with accounting, financial affairs, there are people who will see it much more clearly. See, the 12th article provides an incentive system with an additive, which says that in the last year before the start of work, one of the people in a household who has received help from the Social Aid and Solidarity Fund, one of the people who has a few hundred-dollar income income, one of the employees of Turkey -- and one of the registered unemployed -- says, "Give me a job." And then he finds a proper job, and then his employer hires him; that's all of his employers are being paid by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Social Affairs for a year. Now, how far is this going to take place in the application when the employer -- you know the subject -- is he going to hire someone? Is that in practice? You know, when employers follow these issues in particular or take advantage of some incentives, they're more studied; the finance ministry auditers, social security agencies, inspectors study them more; they're especially vetted because they're encouraged by the government, they're supported, they're vetted. Now, under the circumstances, the poor will be poor, its monthly income will be a few hundred liras, it will go to the Employment Institution, it will say, "Give me a job." He will be among the unemployed registered within the last year, and the employer's share of this -- look, the employer's share is a very low amount -- will be paid by the employer. How will the employer know that he's applying, that he's carrying these conditions? For these, as I said in my first day's speech on the whole, we need to establish a system of social policy. All of this, people who will benefit from social services, should be evaluated in a database. Who are they, under what circumstances do they benefit from these benefits, their families, where they live, where they live -- who can't pay very well from social services experts -- who can't pay a premium, who can't benefit from public health insurance -- it's not possible to be seen as incentives, otherwise theoretically correct; it's encouraging the needy to go to work. That's the way it should be done in the world, but you can't encourage, encourage, or encourage an employer to hire them, so you need other incentives, you need a different arrangement; we reminded you of that, and we specifically told you in the Commission. This substance, yes, is theoretically correct, but it's wrong in practice. If we're gonna do it, let's do it right, make it count. And when we asked about it, the Commission said: "These will include the Syrians." That's how it was expressed. It's not possible to cover the Syrians, it's not possible for the Syrians to get bigger numbers, they get 1,200 lira monthly, they get that coverage, they don't work that way. So, even if this stuff is theoretically meaningful, it doesn't mean anything in practice, it's something you're bringing in for nothing. I hereby salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit05spe0272par0112	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 12th article is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0272par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks with Bill 273. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are two motions on Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that until the end of the year 2018 of Article 13 of the Common Law Bill 273 until the end of the year 2018. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ahmet Yıldırım Altan Tan Mehmet Ali Aslan Mahmut Toğrul To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the framework Article 13 of the Common Law Bill 273 be changed in the following way. İlknur İnceöz Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mustafa Kalaycı Engin Altay Tahsin Tarhan Mihrimah Belma Row The first and seventh jokes of Article 3713 of the Anti-Terror Law, dated 13/4/1991, were changed in the following way; the following sentence was added at the end of the fifth joke; the second and third sentences of the eighth joke were changed in the following way, and the third joke (c) of the third joke (c) of those who lost their lives added to me was added to the phrase "wife and child, wife, wife or child." "In addition to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003 dated and 5018 (II) (II), (III) and (IV) public institutions, public institutions and institutions in Citadels, public economic initiatives and joint partnerships, districts of private administrations, municipalities and subsidiaries, all other public institutions and institutions established by special law, must appoint all other public institutions and institutions, under contract staff positions (I), (III) and (IV), under the provisions of which the Department of Permanent and Social Policy has been declared to be entitled to by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and to appoint the post of President and to appoint the posting of the State Officers under the Act 657." "The personnel who have been appointed under this clause can be appointed without being subject to a test by public institutions or organizations, to positions or positions related to the titles of which they export as part of their studies at the time of the proposal to be appointed by the State Chief of Staff. "However, if there is no third joke (a), (b), (c) or (c) person or persons under the age of 45 who will use the right of employment, then those who are entitled to employment may benefit from the right of employment if there is no one under 45 years of age." "The bids of the rightful owners to appoint public institutions and institutions are made by the State Staff President in 45 days. In addition to the draft proposal for the appointment of the appointment on the postings, it is considered to be added to the boards and sections of the public institutions and organisations, which have been offered the appointment, regardless of the provisions in other laws and without further processing, have been assigned to positions, allocations and visas and legislation. In this manner, the staff and positions assigned to such positions have been cancelled without any further procedure in case of ejaculation in any way." Now, I'll have Mr. Idris Baluken and his friends read the motion again and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that until the end of the year 2018 of Article 13 of the Common Law Bill 273 until the end of the year 2018. Mahmoud Toğrul (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0273par0030	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0272par0031	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0274par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0272par0033	Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep on the motion.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0275par0035	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. By the way, dear labourers of the General Assembly, I salute you, too. Dear friends, we're talking about bag number 273... and we're starting to worry more and more about whether or not we're going to have a normal legal discussion of this bag of laws. Dear friends, the 14-year AKP government is notorious for changing its laws in its day-to-day development again. He does it himself, and after a while, he changes it himself, depending on the conditions of the day. I don't think even lawmakers present at the General Assembly know how many times TMK Law 3713, which is part of Article 13 of the bag law, has been changed. The AKP's government, again, is constantly bragging about the removal of special official criminal courts. However, these special authorities want to make it clear that the courts were founded by him again in 2005. He builds it, lifts it himself, and as a success, unfortunately, he's trying to get it into the community. In the past three and a half months alone, there has been a period when more than 130 things have been passed through the Plan and Budget, and because of the laws of this bag, law enforcement has now become almost a complete mess, a total soup. Dear friends, the 13th article of Law Bill 273, which we will discuss, aims to offer support to their families after the death of soldiers and police. Dear friends, we're not against the welfare of people's families, the creation of jobs for their families, but we're not taking any precautions to prevent these people from being killed, and we're not taking them when we have efforts to make sure that they don't die, but we're dealing with what happens after they die. We lose people, soldiers, police, civilians, guerrillas, young, old, children, every day, especially in the recent war. It's not really a sustainable situation. The Parliament, which must make an effort to prevent people's deaths, unfortunately, is interested in how we can provide support for their families after their death. Dear friends, with this image, we actually perceive that the war that is being waged right now is psychologically trying to create conditions for these people to be fought in the region. It's extremely dangerous. This war kills people every day. Let's tear down our cities, and then we'll create Toledos. Let us kill our people, and we will support their families after death. The President of this country can say that 1 of us dies, 10 of them die. The President of this country is president of all people in all these cities. So it's really hard to understand what we mean when you say "we" and "they."
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0276par0045	They're what he calls terrorists.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0275par0046	Just a few days ago, when four people died in Turkey, one of them was 75 years old and one of them was his two - year - old grandson. Dear friends, what terrorist activities must a two-year-old person have been involved in? When you think about it all this way, you're in an effort to unfortunately cause this country to be in chaos, to get in front of it day by day, and to cause the loss of our people, and to cause this war to take place. We need to get back from this as soon as possible. I say the solution is not in war, the solution is in peace. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0277par0050	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. Congressmans, I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0275par0052	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0277par0053	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. Members of parliament, the motion, signed by lawmakers of the three groups to be re-read and processed, has been adopted under the 13th article, taking into account the agreement on the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 13 of the Common Law Bill 273 be changed in the following way. İlknur İnceöz Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mustafa Kalaycı Engin Altay Tahsin Tarhan Mihrimah Belma Row The first and seventh jokes of Article 3713 of the Anti-Terror Law, dated 13/4/1991, were changed in the following way; the following sentence was added at the end of the fifth joke; the second and third sentences of the eighth joke were changed in the following way, and the third joke (c) of the third joke (c) was added to me by "one of the wives and children who lost their lives, wife or children" following the declaration "mommy, father or child." "In addition to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003 dated and 5018 (II) (II), (III) and (IV) public institutions, public institutions and institutions in Citadels, public economic initiatives and joint partnerships, districts of private administrations, municipalities and subsidiaries, all other public institutions and institutions established by special law, must appoint all other public institutions and institutions, under contract staff positions (I), (III) and (IV), under the provisions of which the Department of Permanent and Social Policy has been declared to be entitled to by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and to appoint the appointment of State and the posting of the State under the State Officers Act 657." "The personnel who have been appointed under this clause can be appointed without being subject to a test by public institutions or organisations, to positions or positions related to the titles of which they export at the time of the proposal to be appointed by the State Chief of Staff. "However, if there is no third joke (a), (b), (c) or (c) person or persons under the age of 45 who will use the right of employment, then those who are entitled to employment may benefit from the right of employment if there is no one under 45 years of age." "The bids of the rightful owners to appoint public institutions and institutions are made by the State Staff President in 45 days. In addition to the draft proposal for the appointment of the appointment on the postings, it is considered to be added to the boards and sections of the public institutions and organisations, which have been offered the appointment, regardless of the provisions in other laws and without further processing, have been assigned to positions, allocations and visas and legislation. In this way, the assigned staff and positions have been cancelled without any further procedure in case they ejaculate in any way." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0278par0071	We commend you with the proper opinion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0277par0072	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0279par0073	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0277par0074	No speakers on the motion. Under Article 3713 of Law No. 3713, the offer of appointment of relatives, veterans and veterans to be appointed by the State Chief of Staff is allowed to be carried out without a setback due to the staff and quota issues of public institutions and institutions. Under Law 3713, victims of terrorism are intended to be eliminated by the possibility that their parents can benefit from employment as well as from the absence of their spouses and children. The right to employment under Law 3713 is intended to eliminate the rights of persons under the age of 45 if no one under the age of 45 is found to use the right to work under the law. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Now I promise Mr. Kalaycı, he's in the system. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0280par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. I will express our views as the National Movement Party regarding the motion accepted. As it is known, there are problems in implementing the use of the right to employment of fallen relatives and veterans. I'm afraid there are no appointments scheduled to be made by the end of 2015 with temporary matter. The bill envisioned extending the interim period to the end of 2018. In my speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Division, I criticised the situation, stated that instead of a temporary clause, there should be permanent regulation and there should be no delay in appointments. Now, with the joint motion that we support as the National Movement Party, the main amendment is being made, and some of the setbacks in the appointments are being resolved. In addition, in cases when victims of terrorism do not have spouses or children, the family and parents are also being used for employment. It's about the employment rights that people under the age of 45 can use if...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0281par0089	Please complete, Mr. Kalayci.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0280par0090	... If you do not have a right under the age of 45 or older than 45, you are also entitled to that right. We, the nationalist movement party, also have a motion to express as part of the chapter speech. Only one of our martyr children can be employed. Most of our martyrs are already single. We insist that all martyr children be employed in public, and we do. There's no accounting for the financial burden this will bring. Great states don't account for the costs they're going to pay for their families and their veterans. All martyr children should be employed in public, not burdened by it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0282par0093	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. Mr. Altay, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0283par0095	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we have signed a favourable motion, such as the removal of staff and quota excuses for the relatives of martyrs, veterans and veterans in public, providing employment for your parents outside of siblings, allowing employment for those over 45 years of age, but we have signed a positive motion as the Republican People's Party Group, along with the other two political parties. It is not possible for all of this to pay off our debt of loyalty and gratitude to our martyrs. As the Republican People's Party, it is our wish, our will, and our will that more resources be offered to the state. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0284par0098	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Incescuz, here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0285par0100	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, we are here, of course, to carry out an important arrangement. First of all, I ask God's mercy on our martyrs, who have not refused to defend their lives for the unity and unity of our country, who have not refused to sacrifice, and to their relatives, and to their families, I ask for patience. In this struggle, I'd like to make sure that the veterans get well and my wishes for a cure are here. What our martyrs leave behind is very important to us, very precious relics, and today we make an arrangement regarding the relics they left behind and the relatives of our veterans and veterans. We have jointly proposed the EC PARTY, the Republican People's Party, the National Movement Party. We've made similar arrangements in the past. I thank them, too, for their sensitivity in this matter. With the arrangement we have made here, we are making the arrangement that was scheduled to take place until 2018, indefinitely and permanently. However, if our martyrs and relatives and veterans have no children of their own, their parents have the right to take advantage of this right, and if there are no relatives under the age of 45 left behind, we have given them the right to employment in order to benefit those over 45 years of age.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0286par0105	Complete, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0285par0106	I especially want to point out that what our martyrs leave behind while we praise them, it is not in any way a debt of loyalty and gratitude to our veterans and to the relatives of our veterans. I wish this arrangement to be a blessing in this sense, and I thank you again for the support they have given the groups.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0286par0108	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz. Mr. Demirel, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0287par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the important thing for us is to stop the war, stop people from losing their lives and avoid it. Of course, the most important thing to pay is to stop this war and prevent people's deaths; it's to provide for people's lives that's important to us. Otherwise, after people lose their lives, of course, it's important to know that we can't pay them off by simply putting them -- economically -- to a few jobs or a few pennies -- and if we're going to pay them back, we're going to pay them back by stopping the war, but that's what we're going to get. Otherwise, to satisfy the poverty of the leftover families and to give people an environment that will certainly sustain the life of poor families without losing their lives. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we're all in charge in the first degree. That's the most important thing to think about.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0288par0114	Complete, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0287par0115	Let me put it this way, not to see anyone die, but to keep people from dying and from losing their lives, and that should be our responsibility. In the first degree, I think we need to think about how we can stop this war, how we can take away the suffering of the families, and make decisions about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0288par0117	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Congressmans, in accordance with the amendment now, I submit the 13th Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there are four motions on the 14th article, three of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the additional text, which is envisioned to be added to Law 4342, under the framework of Law Bill 273, in the following way. İlknur İnceöz Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mihrimah Belma Koran Tülay Kaynarca Abdullah Prime Minister Harun Karaca Ismet Flying Fatma Benli Halis Dalklıç Yıldız Seferinoğlu Erol Kaya Haydar Ali Yıldız The definitions of medium goods, such as transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry, are removed, and these are registered for the Treasury, which is included within the Istanbul European Side Project Area, according to the Council of Ministers' Council of Ministers, dated 1-30/4/2014 and published in the Official Gazette 28987, dated 2014/6028. Now that I have three proposals that I'm going to read, I'm going to process them together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to those who have motions, or I'm going to have them read their reasons. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the Common Law Bill 273 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ahmet Yıldırım Altan Tan Mehmet Ali Aslan Ayhan Bilgen The signatures of the other motion are: Bornt Kuşoglu Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Bihlun Tamaylıgil Utku Çakırözer Okan Gaytancıoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Günal Erhan Usta Kamil Aydın Open his mind, Izzet Ulvi Ölter Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0289par0152	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0288par0153	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0290par0154	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0288par0155	Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu on the first motion of the same nature.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0291par0157	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been attacked by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists in Derek district of Mardin province last week and have been killed by an attack by Hatay Yayladadakulı, police officer Mehmet Benli. And today, in Şırnak, Hakkari Dağlıca and Mardin, I wish to express my condolences to Allah's mercy, to their families and to the Turkish nation. I wish our wounded soldiers a speedy recovery. I also pray to God that Happy Birth Week is a blessing to the Turkish-Islam world. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding our motion on Article 14 of the Bill of Law, which we call law 273. I salute your high council. An additional clause is added to the Law on Mera 4342. With this supplement, the quality of middle goods, such as transport, Maritime and Telecommunications Ministry, which are included in the European Side Project Areas of Istanbul, which was stated in the Council of Ministers' decision in 2012, is removed without the law and are registered to the Treasury. This arrangement violates the Law on Mera and the Constitution. Article 45 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey has been tasked with protecting workers in agriculture, animalism, and production, and to prevent the use of agricultural land and meadows and disintegration. In accordance with this decree of the Constitution, the Mera Law was adopted in 1998. The 14th article of the Mera Law mentions that unless its dedication is changed, it cannot be used in any other way than what is shown in this law. The purpose of the collection has been ruled that the change can only be made in the areas required for mining and oil search and business activities and tourism investments, public investments and land preserves, the protection of gene resources, the establishment of a national park and preserve forest, the preservation of natural, historical and cultural assets, flood control, streams and resources and resources. Canal Istanbul does not comply with any of these provisions. Finally, the Mera Law was redesigned by the AKP in 2014 and opened its front for other purposes for the allocation of mera, pedestrians and barracks. So the urban transformation, which became a random transformation, went all the way back to the medians, which was destroyed by Istanbul's history and culture, by the land-rants, by the treasure hunters. Dear MPs, I would also like to look at this change in the Mera Law in another way. Our country's annual need for brute bait is 50 million tons. Our quality brute bait deficit is 14.5 million tons. As with many agricultural products, Turkey signed a principle in 2012, importing meat and hay from abroad. Our country's farmer is a victim of this situation. This change will be set as a precedent for the destruction of agricultural fields under the name of the local transformation, which will be opened in many fields in Anatolia with various excuses. As the National Movement Party, it says that instead of the development of our mera, we need to improve our grazing capacity and meet the needs of the livestock industry, and for places where it has to be developed, we need to get opinions from relevant organizations and look after public benefits, and I give you all respect.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0292par0166	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. On the other proposal of the same nature, Mr. Okan Gaytancıoğlu of Edirne.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0293par0169	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party Group on Article 14 of the Law Bill 273. Another bag of law, another AKP logic. In the name of the law, we're going to provide new rights to our so-called needy, weak, homeless citizens, who are 65 years old, but look what the AKP has given us to debate in this law. As part of the Canal Istanbul Project, the AKP has set its sights on the runt this time. Small and medium-sized landowners at the site of the project route will be victimised and the land there will change hands. After changing hands, the areas collected under the partnership share of the regulation partnership, which is 40 per cent, will be pursued by the Turkish Cypriot construction companies and by the Turkish Cypriot hands. Mr. President, do you know what we're going after? We're legally attracting the free feed source left to the animals. We know you don't know the law, but I don't think that's gonna happen. You're changing the Mera Law; you're handing over a total of 20,000 per cent of first-class agricultural areas in the area of Istanbul, such as mera, pedestrian, and barracks, without any supervision, with a decision made by the Ministry. Albania's villages, Hunters, Bağcılers, Bakırköy, Küçükçekmece districts will be affected in a negative way. We've also discovered that the Smallstone Lake and the Sazlidere Water Gathering Dam are now water basins, and they're ripe for construction. The small agricultural fields in this section are now being harvested. These farmlands are threatened with extinction. What kind of agricultural policy is that? And then you come in, and you say, "The price of meat is going up." You take 15 people behind you, they're going to be sold for $28 per pound, they're going to be sold for $32 per bird, you say, it's not going to happen. Why? You don't plan, you don't predict the future, you find salvation in imports. Here you are, 15,000 tons of meat import. Yes, you allowed the Meat and Milk Foundation to import cattle with zero customs tax -- 15,000 tons. Why do you use money to support farmers from other countries and never think about the local farmer; when you have a free feed source, you don't think about looking at those beautiful things and you're going after them, and you're ignoring 20,000 acres of land? And then you can't control the price of meat, you're lowering the price of milk. Let's think about the manufacturer. Let's think about the manufacturer. You cheat from us, you reset the VAT in the bait. You know how to reset, but you're doing it wrong. You have to give the brokers $2.4 billion of the government's funding to the manufacturer. Bait prices don't go down, so meat prices don't go down. After that, you find the cure in animal imports. You say in one day that we're not going to import food anymore. You look at it on the website, two hours later, and you pick it up. Why? Because, with unpredictable policies, day-to-day policies, you're trying to direct Turkey's agriculture, you're trying to steer Turkey's animalism. If you had invested $2.4 billion in the manufacturer's accounts, maybe the manufacturer would have had money, and now we wouldn't be having this conversation here. What's it gonna be? We're wondering when it'll be time for the Turkish farmer to support the farmers of other countries. What are other countries doing? They're guarding their parade like their eyes. They give them water, they give them fertilizer, they give them free bait. What are we doing? We're opening the parades for construction. And then you say, "Well, the farmer can't look enough animals in the meadows." Let's at least give them to the peasant for 20 years of weed money. Is there money in the peasant? Where's he gonna get it? If he's not in the village, let's give him to the village next door. But the point is, you want to rent it out to the third party. That's no agricultural policy, fellas. This way, don't covet the medians. Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0294par0178	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. On the other proposal of the same nature, Mr. Ayhan Bilgen of Kars.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0295par0181	Mr. President, there are two dangers waiting for the parades, one of which prevents the use of mera because of the security zones, which are not transparent, much less auditing, much less watching these security policies as civilians, and we're almost without the ability to learn. In some districts of Kars., curfews have been imposed on villages and mera, because of security on pedestrians; the Council of Ministers has decided on March 1st; whether or not the end date is over, whether or not you can enter those villages, those villages, those pedestrians, the police stations, we can't find out. But, today, our main concern is the second threat to crazy projects and mera, which means opening up the ranta is that the mera are no longer farmland. Once, if you've made seven laws in 14 years on a subject, you don't have any predictions, no strategic planning of that area. There have been seven laws made about the Mera since 2003. The law means that the state's limits are known by citizens, and that the citizen can, again, predict how far its rights extend. Now, it's impossible to talk about predictions in an arrangement that changes every two years. On the one hand, you're going to have almost a passport discussion about the in and out of Istanbul, you're going to have a license discussion, instead of investing in cities that migrate from the other side, you're going to sign regulations that will increase rank in Istanbul, encourage new migration. You know, other people have tried these crazy projects in history. It's one of the most important references in the history books that we've been taught in history, called "Crazy Petroί," which is what the Russians call "The Great Petroί," which I think is one of the most important references in the history of the network; here are some projects between Don and the Volga, you know, between the Caspian and the Black Sea. Today, there are other network projects in the world. Iran, for example, has a channel project from Caspian to Basra. It probably doesn't look like our craziness, we're talking about a real, serious project, which means something, which means something in terms of energy transmission lines and other transportation policies. In particular, I'd like to remind you of a nice word from the Sufis about so much public property being so easy and so arbitrary. Sufis say about public property, property: this is yours in the city; this is mine; it is mine in the cult; it is mine and mine, but it is not yours in the truth. Yes, I want to remind you that there is a serious difference between building the world, building public land, opening public property, opening public goods, building urban rights, taking care of the rights, the bear's rights, the rights, the rights of the fish, and building a building all over the land by building, and seeing a paradise of real estate. If a project, a political position, a policy really is based on the need, it serves something else, but if it serves someone's greed for profit, it leads to something else. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0296par0190	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the additional text, which is envisioned to be added to Law 4342, under the framework of Law Bill 273, in the following way. İlknur İnceöz (Aksaray) and his friends The descriptions of medium goods, such as transport, Maritime and Telecommunications Ministry, which are included in the Council of Ministers' Decision 2014/6028, published in the Official Gazette No. 28987, dated 1 - 30/4/2014, and published in the Official Gazette 28987, are declared on behalf of the Treasury.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0297par0197	Mr. President, this came in three versions, so is there any change? Use your phone rights! The last one, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0298par0198	No, sir, our final motion is valid.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0297par0199	Mr. Secretary, is this the last version? No, if there's anything else, ask them on the phone! The end?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0299par0200	The end, the end.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0297par0201	You may use the Joker's right, if you'll excuse me!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0300par0202	We've used the rights of the charter, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0301par0203	This is the final motion, I believe, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0297par0204	Mr. Secretary can use his phone rights!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0302par0205	This final motion is valid, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0301par0206	It's the final motion, isn't it, fellas?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0303par0207	The motion is valid, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0304par0208	Sir, let the Minister use his phone card again!
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0303par0209	Mr. Oktay is joking.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0305par0210	You're in no mood to laugh, you're unconscious! You're in no position to joke.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0306par0211	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0307par0212	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0306par0213	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0308par0214	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0309par0215	Motive...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0306par0216	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The European Side Project borders on Istanbul have been redacted according to this, as it has been redacted by the Council of Ministers of 2014/6028, dated 30/4/2014 and published in the Official Gazette 28987.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0310par0218	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit06spe0306par0219	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0306par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough during the vote of Aksaray MP İlkınur İnceöz and his friends on Article 14 of the Law Bill 273. I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the motion... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is accepted. We now resume negotiations with Bill 273 in rows. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the 14th article to your votes in accordance with the motion adopted: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on the 15th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to those who have the right to pay monthly compensation and the right to receive monthly compensation and monthly compensation, which is included in Article 15 of the Common Law Bill 273. Mehmet Günal Erhan Usta Kamil Aydın Open Mind Izzet Ulvi Router Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 15th article of the Common Law Bill 273 shall be changed in the following way. Bornt Kuşoglu Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Bihlun Tamaylıgil Utku Cakirözer Ceeyhun İrgil The second joke of the 19th Article of the Public Servants Unions No. 4688, dated 15-25/6/2001, and of the 19th Article of the Common Contraction Act added the bell to the following. If necessary, not to exceed ten per cent of the cash deposit and in co-ordinating with the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Article 3/6/1949, Article 64 of the Law on Retirement of the Republic of Turkey, Article 5434 and Article 2330 and Article 31/5/2006, Social Insurance and Article 5510 and Article 47 of the General Health Insurance Act on Article 47, and the Act on Anti-Terror Act 3/4/1991, and the Law on Human Rights Against the First Amendment, 3/11/1980, and Article 2330, and the Law on the Law on Human Rights and the Law on Human Rights Against the First Amendments and the First Amendment, according to Articlestrations of the First Amendment and the First Amendment and the First Amendment of the First Amendment. Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 15 of the Law Bill 273 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ahmet Yıldırım Altan Tan Mehmet Ali Aslan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0311par0030	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0306par0031	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0312par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0306par0033	Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0313par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, yes, this motion should also be addressed in connection with the 13th amendment we have just discussed. I mean, it's the same thing that we need to stop this war first, but it's something that makes people helpless for some reason. But this stuff doesn't just settle for that. At the same time, this responsibility -- because it's against the law -- is an obligation to the unions in collective business contracts. I mean, you're going to limit the freedoms of the unions, and you're going to authorize the unions in line with the responsibility of the victims. Now, unions have authenticity, you have to see those authenticitys. Only the unions won't be able to decide that on their own. At the same time, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy will be co-ordinated, supporting families in need. Now, we have to stop the killings first. In a country where dozens of people lose their lives a day, it is unrealistic only to support and fulfill people through a relief through the victims of their families. Yes, let's stop the killings, eliminate the wars, end the wars, but other than that, let's do the same with the idea that they need families, the same as they do with the government. But we're trying to put these responsibilities on the unions for some reason. Now, this clause violates the 90th article of the Constitution. Second, it violates the 90th article of the Constitution, and it violates the ILO Convention 87 at the same time. Yes, in the ILO Convention, we're making decisions on their behalf and we're making decisions on their behalf by legalizing the decisions that trade unions have to make, for some reason, the public's influence on the unions. Yes, this is contrary to the third article of ILO (ILO) Convention 87 in private. I would like to read the same article: The organisations of employees and employers have the right to regulate their regulations and internal regulations, to choose their representatives freely, to organise management and activities, and to set business programmes. Public authorities must refrain from any interference that will limit or prevent this right from being used in accordance with the law. You are in violation of the ILO Convention and the Constitution today. So that's what we want to emphasize in private about the withdrawal of this substance. On the one hand, you're going to deepen the war, slaughter and kill people every day, while you're going to commit illegal acts against the Constitution and against the law with legal changes you're going to make here for some improvements. Members of parliament, in many counties today, curfews and rights violations are taking place. What kind of justice, what kind of law can we talk about when people can't bury their bodies? Today, from Erzurum to Antalya to Malatya to Elaziğ, from Diyarbakır to Nusaybin, and in a country where funerals are in the morgues, we are truly amazed at how you can bring this up. In a time when people can't get their funerals, they can't get their funerals out of Tyre, you're trying to approach families with a project through financial and cash. Yes, to deliver the funerals of these families first and stop this war...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0314par0047	It's not war, it's terrorism.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0313par0048	I'm saying that it is our responsibility to provide the necessary cash and moral support. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0315par0050	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 15th article of the Common Law Bill 273 shall be changed in the following way. Bulent Kuşoglu (Ankara) and his friends The second joke of the 19th Article of the Public Servants Unions No. 4688, dated 15-25/6/2001, and of the 19th Article of the Common Contraction Act added the bell to the following. If necessary, not to exceed ten per cent of the cash deposit and in co-ordinating with the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Article 3/6/1949, Article 64 of the Law on Retirement of the Republic of Turkey, Article 5434 and Article 2330 and Article 31/5/2006, Social Insurance and Article 5510 and Article 47 of the General Health Insurance Act on Article 47, and the Act on Anti-Terror Act 3/4/1991, and the Law on Human Rights on Humanity and 230, and the Law on Human Rights of the Law on Human Rights of the First Order of Terrors and 1/11/1980, under Articles of the First Amendment, and the Law on First Amendment, and the provisions of the First Amendment. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0316par0059	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0315par0060	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0317par0061	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0315par0062	On the motion, Mr. Ceyhun İrgil.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0318par0064	Mr. President, dear friends, the 15th article in this law is actually something that we offer to help workers and relatives of the public. And this is the material that you're bringing in, which, in essence, gives martyr families, relatives, and veterans a way to help them. We offer you this same and liquid aid for workers and relatives who were injured in business accidents and unable to function because of occupational illness, in this article and in Article 27. As a matter of fact -- why are we all suggesting -- that there's something in common that we all agree on: to support the victims of natural disasters, to the victims of the martyrs, to the widows and orphans, to make sure that they can survive, is a fundamental duty of the social government, which we agree on. It is important that the union established in its constitution to protect its members and the working class is included in the social aid mechanism. Now, there have been a lot of debates in the Commission as this law was discussed, but we said: "No. Let's work on this. We'll work on this, but our friends, the opposition members of the Commission, said, "What if we can remove this from here? Let's take it down, let's not let it go down." Friends, it is not possible for any of us to say no to such a human demand in principle, so let's discuss it in the General Assembly. So, we've just talked to Mr. Secretary and members of the Commission about this, and I think we've agreed to open a way to help people who have suffered from work accidents and occupational illness in both the public unions and the 27th article -- workers and their relatives. Right, Minister? Minister, we've reached an agreement, haven't we? I think we've come to an agreement, and the commissioners have seen it well. Followed by...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0319par0068	He's not listening, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0318par0069	The minister approved it. It's okay.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0320par0070	Minister, did you approve?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0318par0071	The minister agrees.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0321par0072	We'll talk to the unions.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0322par0073	He's following up on the union business.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0323par0074	The minister isn't following the law.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0324par0075	The Minister and the Commission agree on that. Because, friends, what we're about to do is very important to the social community. Like our martyrs and veterans, people in business accidents and occupational illness -- in the end, their families are too victims -- we open the way for help, we open the same way to help. Therefore, I hope that all members of the Commission and other parties, opposition parties, members of the ruling party will be able to understand this issue and will be added to the 15th and 27th article by renegotiation tomorrow, and I know that you will all support it, so I thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0325par0077	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm having the other motion read...
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0326par0080	We're drawing the motion.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0325par0081	The final motion has been withdrawn. Now, I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The payment period for the 16th article of the Common Law Bill 273 is postponed by one year. Mehmet Günal Erhan Usta Kamil Aydın Open the mind Izzet Ulvi Ölsan Mehmet Erdogan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 16 of the Law Bill 273 that is being discussed in the following way. Bornt Kuşoglu Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu MADDE 16-29/6/2001, the following temporary clause in the Law on the Evaluation of Unmovable Property of Treasure 4706, and the Amendment to the Adding Value Tax Law has been added. "Tourism facilities are assigned by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and the Ministry of Finance to build on public land in accordance with its 19-related legislation from documented investors and entrepreneurs whose names are assigned by the Ministry of Finance; whether or not the right of altitude is established or not allowed to use it, the payment must be postponed during the period between 1/1/2016 and 31/12/2016, which must be collected by the same time due to the removal of the treasury by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism due to the transfer of documents. Postponed purchases are collected in three years from the end of this period and with three equal installments without any increase or interest. Unpaid installments are collected by higher or interest due to their relevant legislation. Those who have been collected before the date of the application of this clause, according to the first joke, are entitled to collect the charges that must be collected after the deadline for extradition or postponement is over if requested by the parties. As long as the debtors in charge of applying to their respective collection offices until the end of the fourth month, which follows the date of this clause, the first installment will be paid in the same month as the period of the period of which this clause has been in effect, and the amount of tariffs will be paid in three equitable installments, which are not paid in the period of the period of the following year (except this date) until the period (except this date) is in effect. As of now, non-payment payments are being monitored and collected according to the Law's provisions on Amme Acquisitions' Collectives Act 6183, with a delay increase in the period after the payment period. In addition to the circumstances mentioned in the joke, those in debt who want to benefit from these jokes must not press charges, give up open cases, and not resort to law enforcement. The amount collected prior to the time of this clause's execution is not rejected or returned. The Ministry of Finance is authorized to determine the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this clause." Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that Article 16 of the Common Law Bill 273 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ahmet Yıldırım Altan Tan Mehmet Ali Aslan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0327par0109	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0325par0110	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0328par0111	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0325par0112	Mr. Caladet Gaydalı of Bitlis on the motion.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0329par0114	Mr. President, on behalf of my Democratic Party of Peoples and my group, I have taken a pledge on the 16th Amendment of the Common Law Bill 273. I salute you and the public. Dear lawmakers, first of all, along with the laws laid out in this bag, are actually redesigning many areas in their own perspective, by making structural changes in the name of power, urban transformation and publicisation, rather than in the name of structural changes. Today, the AKP's government, which is particularly one of the cities in which the conflict took place, has been preparing to implement urban transformation projects, and has signalled that the war concept will continue at its full speed and destruction with this bag of legislation. The government, which has focused its internal policy on war and destruction, has also done a lot of wrong in foreign policy, affecting many areas and many people both economically and socially. One of them is the tourism industry. In particular, with the fall of the Russian plane, the embargo and general international wrong policies imposed by Russia have first hit the tourism sector, one of the most fundamental stones in the economy. Despite such a blow, the government has decided to postpone its debts one year and apply exception, not to the labourer, who is literally the underdog and victim of the industry, but also to prioritize capital and to compensate for the victims of capital forces. Today, Turkey's policies have led to a country called the country of chaos and conflict in the international community. This exception and postponement policy is not enough to solve the problem of the industry in the long run. Precious lawmakers, primarily regional policies, should be reviewed by Syrian policy and Russian policy. A new road map must be set in order to overcome the crises. In order to restore the trust index that Turkey has lost internationally, war policy within the country must be abandoned. Today, the most important thing for tourism is the country's trust index. Even the America we call allies wants its own citizens to leave Turkey today. In such a case, we need to determine whether our priorities are war or peace. In a city that has become world heritage by UNESCO, in a city like Diyarbakir, in order to cause war and related destruction, to reshape all cities with historical and cultural values to collect votes, to deliver a city of social value to the waters, to support those who support natural beauty, to cement tourism? Dear lawmakers, tourism today is considered to be a single sense of coastal tourism. Five-star hotels, forests, mechas, natural sites, followed by a number of values being slaughtered. The state approaches tourism with a complete business sense. Tourism isn't just the coast, it's also where thousands of years of cultural capital come to life. Like Hasankeyf, AKP's business logic today has been under water for short-term businesses, burying 10,000 years of history under water with profit ambition and security policy. Dear lawmakers, some things need to be made clear very clearly. First of all, in a field without peace, peace, and security, the tourism sector will certainly continue to lose blood. If it is intended to resolve the problems of the industry in the long term, then the government must sit back at the solution table and take radical steps to normalise relations with the world, especially with the peoples of Turkey, otherwise there will be only loss and destruction in many areas of life. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0330par0122	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu and his friends' motion has been withdrawn. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The payment period for the 16th article of the Common Law Bill 273 is postponed by one year. Mehmet Erdoğan (Muğla) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0331par0130	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0330par0131	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0332par0132	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0330par0133	Mr. Mehmet Erdogan, MP of Muğla on the motion.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0333par0135	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the motion we have made on the 16th Amendment. I hereby salute your high council. In the 16th article, of course, there is an arrangement for the package the AKP's government has introduced under the name of the package of tourism, which will not be bought in 2016, and will be paid in three installments only for the pricing and allocation of businesses that are documented by the Ministry of Tourism. Now, dear friends, the wrong policies that AKP has implemented in and out of the country have really begun for tourists in 2016. Today, unfortunately, this is the first time I, as a Mudla MP, have seen my time facing such a psychologically difficult economic year, tourism, agriculture. Really, the news we're getting isn't very good. Already, some local, foreign mobster groups have started chasing down hotels that are going bankrupt. In such a case, the government must respond with a serious package that supports tourism. Here, in this article, the excises of tourism-certified facilities alone are divided into equal installments in 2016. In addition, municipal tourist facilities are not possible to benefit from this. First of all, we had a motion here to investigate the government's tourism... two weeks ago, as the National Party of Action, you rejected our motion to investigate. However, in time, while there is still time, the government needs to put the tourism issue on the table and come up with a solution that will save the tourist, save the season, save our people from unemployment, inadequacy, despair. At least in 2016, at a time when people's expectations for income were so low, what we can do as a state, at least, is to eliminate all the agricultural collections of tourism businesses from the Ministry of Tourism, who received business documents from municipalities, in 2016, all the rights, to provide them with a little support, at least in this way. If this is not done, in 2016, unfortunately, many tourism facilities change hands. The expected domestic, foreign mafia groups have now launched detection, research, and surveillance of tourist facilities. If these facilities fail because of the government's insensitivity because of your lack of precautions, they'll be unemployed from here, investing in the tourism sector for the rest of their lives, losing their fortunes will be on you, my friends. Because there's still work to be done here. Look, one of the most victimised cities in tourism is Mudla. Why Mudla? There are two international airports, but there are no planes. Turkish Airlines finds planes to travel to all parts of Africa, but there are no planes to put them in Muğla, and there are no planes to any part of Asia Minor. If you want to go from Ankara to Mugla, you can't find a plane for three days a week. So, if the government isn't going to intervene today, if it's not going to comfort the tourist today, if it's not going to solve the tourist problem today, when is he going to do it? You find time for everything, you find resources for everything, but thousands of people who eat from it are still not on the list of people who hope for a job in the season. If you don't solve these things now, even the unemployment numbers that will emerge in September will rise to a level you can't imagine today. I'd like to accept this motion and ask for a little support for the people in this sector. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit07spe0334par0143	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 16th article is accepted. I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-12sit08spe0334par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 273, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 248, which is ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since it is clear that the commissions will not be found, it is agreed that on Wednesday (April 13th 2016, it is 14 p.m.) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of the commissions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
