tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 120th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş, who wants to talk about the issues of Adana province. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a promise to speak in Adana province about urban transformation and the problems caused by it. While urban transformation, of course, has to be addressed by the redecorating, restructuring of growing cities, and as a matter of concern for the creation of more comfortable and healthy areas, we can see that the urban transformation in practice has resulted in much more tragic results. In fact, urban transformation with multidimensional aspects is both economic and political and administrative and sociological. So even though urban transformation is a matter of economic, sociological, cultural, historical, political, and above all, human dimensions that contain multiple variables, we also observe that the public has been compromised by the right to live in a healthy and human environment for the sake of the urban transformation projects. Urban transformation studies are a serious problem throughout the country, but in particular, they are also important for Adana, the 5th largest province of Turkey. Adana has 33 project areas related to urban transformation. First they started with Sinanpaşa neighborhood, and now it's Seyhan, Barbaros and Bey neighborhoods. It is also said that they will soon increase in number. Neighborhoods such as Ismetpaşa, Poollubahçe, Sucuzade, Peace, Mestanzade, Sakarya, Rooking, Hurriyet, Başak, Yavuz, Barracks, Raiders, Karacaoglan, Cumhuriyet, Municipality Houses are now waiting their turn. Already, 33 project areas have reached a danger to the Adanas, with an area that exceeds 1,600 hectares. A healthy urban transformation, of course, is the main demand of the Adanans, for the neighborhood's living quarters to improve their right of residence. But this transformation has to be human-oriented. Residents need to be given a say in their neighborhoods and their homes. In its place, the transformation is because it is essential for democracy to value man and his life and to develop participation. As there are new homes, there are homes that need healing. If the goal is to build an earthquake-resistant house, the flattening of all the neighborhoods doesn't solve the problem, it raises bigger problems. When we look closely at the developments in all these areas, we can say that the Adanans are kept out of the decision-making mechanisms for urban transformation, and that these decision-making mechanisms are being taken on a runt, and that all urban transformations in Adana have been excluded from neighborhoods, people. Moreover, it is against human rights to not be given information about the outcome of its own property, to prevent a person from making decisions about its own property, and to have no authority even on its own property. With decisions made from the top, they are forced to accept one of the options presented to them. In urban transformation projects, a citizen is forced to borrow money from his own property, to own a home, or to migrate to the city's borders if he is not affordable. It is described as video pollution for Sinanpaşa neighborhood AVM and the hotel, which is trapped in narrow streets near the Seyhan River of Adana. Of course, the citizen has the right to live in a nice, clean environment. However, there is uncertainty in Sinanpaşa, and citizens do not have any knowledge of their future. There are now very large malls and a hotel there. On the other hand, the citizen is condemned to feel alien in his own home, to live in fear of whether he will be homeless in later years, and uncertainty about the future has become a serious problem for the citizen. In fact, the Law on narrowing down the living spaces of TOKI (TİKI) and the Transforming Areas Under Disasters in this regard also presents great sacrifices in Adana (as well as many other provinces). At this moment, in many parts of Adana, concerns about urban transformations have reached a great stage, and I say that we should all make a great effort and salute all of you, especially to the exclusion of citizens, to rid Adana of the unhealthy, unplanned urbanization problem.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0003par0019	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Professor Dr. Halil İnalcık, a member of the Kashkun Çakır, who asked for a statement about the death of Dr. Halil Inalcık. Here you go, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise in relation to the death of our great historian, social scientist, Professor Halil Inalcik. On this occasion, I salute you all, and pay my respects. Mr. President, before I begin to speak, I will speak to a historian, and in Turkish political history, a similar and unprecedented, perhaps unprecedented example in the history of Islam, has been exposed to our nation, our nation, our country, and our great Assembly, which we have been under, and I hereby wish that we would never have such an incident again. I wish our martyrs mercy and immediate healing for our wounded. Mr. President, there is a famous saying that the death of a scholar is like the death of the world. He's a great historian, because he's really put a great deal of success into his hundred years of life. Born in 1916, the Ottoman era, he followed the republic to Ankara in 1924, where he began teaching at the Faculty of Language and History-Geography, where the Republic of Turkey, in a sense, was considered one of the symbols of the revolution. And then, in fact, he revealed an academic achievement that three people could do, academic life. Between 1940 and 1972, he worked at Ankara University and retired. He then went to the United States of America from 1972 to 1992, taught, taught, taught and retired at universities, such as Princeton, especially Chicago, for the second time. Again, Turkey returned to Turkey, and then, this time, from 1993, when she retired -- in fact she didn't retire -- she taught a quarter-year-old class at Bilkent University until her death. It's a tremendous achievement. Professor Inalcuk has fed on three sources: First, Fuad Bridge. Second, Omar Lütfi Barkan. The third was influenced by the French Annales school and its important representative, Braudel. And in his own words, I walked on a ground that was deep in Barkan, which was opened by the Bridge. He has given many works, two of which must be mentioned: One is the classic era of the Ottoman Empire (1300-1600), and the other is the economic and social history of the Ottoman Empire. These are the muhalled works of Inalcik, the opus of the magnum, the masterpiece. They are translated into dozens of languages around the world today, and they are studied as textbooks around here, especially in America and Europe. He's won a lot of awards, and I think I'll be able to remember two of them. One is the Culture and Art Grand Prize of the Ministry of Culture, and the other is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Medal of Higher Service. The Turkish government is given to those serving the Republic of Turkey. He's a pioneer, he's a founder. He was the founder of several associations and research centers. As I end my words, I'd like to make three points that make him big and different. Unlike his colleagues, Professor Inalcik was not a historian of a period, he studied different periods. By studying the era, the classical period, and the modernization period, he produced the work of every era of the Ottoman era. In the same way, he has not been obsessed with a single theme, but has studied Ottoman political history, legal history, economic history, history of culture and civilization, even the history of literature. In the same way, one of his most important achievements, he didn't stay inside, he managed to make Ottoman-Turkish history as part of the history of the world. As a result, of course, there's no way to describe Inalcik in five minutes. In the words of Immanuel Wallerstein, one of the world's most famous and important social scientists, I would say that it's a failure to think of him as a narrow historian; he's a great historian, the embodiment of Turkish and Ottoman history. I bow before his memory with mercy and respect. I wish God's blessings, my condolences to his students, his loved ones, and the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0005par0033	Thank you, Mr. Cakir. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Niğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer, who wants to talk about the problems of local media. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0006par0038	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are on July 24, 1908, the day of the removal of censorship in the press, so it is celebrated as Press Day. The first newspaper in our country began broadcasting in 1831, and today the press is doing an important job in our country. The media's importance has been revealed once again in the July 15 coup attempt. The coup attempt was blocked by public, Parliament, media and security forces who did not participate in the coup. The media's sensitivity and struggle have fallen into history as an important note. It is very, very important for the public to get the right information that the press is able to broadcast free of any kind of pressure. According to TÜİK data, the number of newspapers and magazines fell from 7.158 in 2013 to 6,802 in 2015. 90 per cent of newspapers published in 2015 are local, 4 per cent regional, 6 per cent national. The annual circulation of newspapers and magazines in 2015 was 2 billion 132 million 242,338. The circulation of newspapers is 98 per cent, but the circulation of local media is 14 per cent. The main part of neutral, objective newspapers continue to broadcast under difficult conditions, while newspaper and printers have significant problems. Although the problems of the national media are expressed in different environments, local media is unable to announce their voice in this context. The important part of the local press in our country remains active because it has its own printing press, so it continues to publish by doing printing work. Local media are bringing up everything about the area where people live, where the development of the region, overcoming their problems, and allowing the public to receive local information. Local press archives also function as important documents of yesterday in Anatolia and Thrace, and today's newspapers will be a source of research for the future. The daily, weekly, or intervals of media in the districts and districts are the voice of society, the eye and the ear. The local press met with changing technology, but it did not reach a proportional increase in revenue pencils, and, of course, the official ad is its only basis. These ads are sometimes used as a means of printing. Local media are struggling to employ experienced and trained employees due to economic difficulties. He is having problems getting official ads, commercial ads and ads. The government doesn't support local newspapers enough. The nationals must provide all kinds of support for the freedom of the local press. The problems are increasing where there is no branch of the Press Ads Agency, which distributes official ads in Turkey. Local media news sources are more official institutions. They often want the news to be on their side, or they'll stand up to the paper and stop him from getting the news. Under the pressure of both financial and local authorities, the local press continues to publish under very difficult circumstances. Local press employees also have major problems. The lack of sufficient income for local media organizations also causes the victims of employees. Although he is a reporter and journalist himself, local media members are subject to the rules that they can get a yellow press card. Local media members who serve under difficult circumstances, who are treated as stepchildren as well as occupational safety, must also be provided with the necessary legal provisions. Therefore, I've also submitted a motion to investigate the situation of local media and local media employees, to investigate their problems, to produce solutions. Dear lawmakers, it is also a problem that there is no legal regulation for news sites broadcasting the Internet in our country. In particular, there are regular reporting sites in the local area. They need to be able to get a yellow press card, use the official ad, and arrange for them to get a status. Dear lawmakers, once again I celebrate the Press Day of our local and national press. Meanwhile, during the time of numerous arrested and detained journalists, I wish that those who did their job as journalists and had no ties to the terrorist organization would not be victimised in this process. The freedom of the press, the neutral, biased broadcast, will be an important basis for the parliamentary system. In this context, I would like our Parliament to demonstrate the necessary sensitivity to both our local press and the problems of our national press, to create solutions, and to prevent what has been seen in practice from moving forward. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0007par0049	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. I will now promise the first 15 members of parliament entering the system for a minute according to 60. Mr. Gökçe, come in.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0008par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. The attack we faced on July 15th was an attempt to invade Turkey beyond the coup terrorist attack. The public's self-control, the epic writing of the tanks, has allowed this attack to be repelled. They wanted to bring down the last bastion, Turkey. The majority of Pakistan, Egypt, Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Arabia Peninsula were reduced to rags. Our nation has shown the world that Turkey is the only actor who can bring the Islamic world together tomorrow as it did yesterday. Mankind will again take refuge in the mercy and compassion of justice, of justice, of peace, of brotherhood, of truth that gives life to all. So the process we're going through is the final process of future and future struggle. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish God's mercy to our fallen martyrs, and to our wounded, an immediate cure.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0009par0058	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0010par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. The coups in Turkey have always turned the economy upside down. 1960, 1980, 1997 coups brought our economy to its knees, causing us to start from scratch. With the May 27 coup, the growth of 3 per cent was reduced to 1.5 per cent from $583 per capita per capita. The coup d'état of September 12 broke up the revenue distribution. Most of all, he shook workers and officers who worked hard. Growth rate has dropped to minus 2.5. The coup on February 28th cost our economy $300 billion. However, our beloved nation, who knew the experience of coups, refused to pay new costs, said that the treacherous, treacherous blow of the 15th of July had been put to rest. With this power taken from our nation, I will quickly wrap our wounds and wipe out the coupgers and coups from our country's agenda, remove any custody based on the presidential system, state once again that we must carry out the civilian, democratic -- the constitution, and salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0011par0067	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0012par0069	I would like to wish for all of my fellow Çankırlı residents, Aydın Çopur, Hasan Gülhan, Erkan Er, Uhud Kadir Il, Osman Evsahhibioğlu, Serhat Leader, Memet Ekizceli, Yusuf Çelik, Yunus Ezder, Mustafa Kavlak, Fadil Gürs, and all of our faithful martyrs who willingly gave their lives in order to defend the state and the country and the nation. Our beloved and noble nation, who called the treacherous scoundrels, has won a great victory that will change history's course in the second battle of sovereignty. With nearly a million people of Çanrırli, signed in this victory, I remind you of the request of our beloved nation to restore the death penalty to our great Assembly, all of you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0011par0071	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0013par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, it is admirable that the AKP (AKP) people who have learned the intelligence of the coup attempt from their brother-in-law and from their relatives have found it as if they had laid hands on tens of thousands of people who were alleged to have been members of the coup attempt. Those who oppose the AKP (AKP) because we will punish those who support it are no different from setting a bomb at the centre of social peace at jet speed. After the coup attempt we have prevented by hand, those who are not involved in the coup must be protected for the continuation of the peace and brotherhood climate. Those who can hide themselves very well can now become the strongest supporters of Recep Tayyip Erdogan and AKP. One of the most important issues to break the peace climate in public is the claims to receive untested personnel. If such an opinion does not exist, the government must deny it and explain to the public that it will take personnel without leaving the principle of examination and neutrality. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0014par0078	Dear Maker...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0015par0080	Mr. President, I condemn all attacks on humanity. More than 100 people were injured the day before, when a bomb-loaded vehicle was attacked by an anti-humanist ISIS gang. The massacre is a massacre against humanity. I condemn and curse this attack with the awareness that pain has no language, no religion, no race. I believe that humanity will unite this barbaric mindset and wipe it out of the scene of history and put its roots deep down so that it will never be destroyed again in the geography of peace. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0016par0083	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0017par0085	Mr. President, once again, I curse the treasonous coup attempt on the night of July 15th. On that night, I express my gratitude to our great nation, whose wife was rarely heroic in the history of the world. On that night, he revealed that our greatest strength was the unity, unity, and brotherhood. It is a duty for both the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Turkish nation to take care of our martyrs and veterans who stood up for the coup attempt on the night of July 15th. The traitor's gang will answer in the face of justice and will receive the harshest punishment. I also condemn the failure of Western governments and media agencies to take a clear stand against the coup attempt. This issue is not only the issue of the EC PARTY, it is the issue of democracy and the nation. We are in the squares until our president's final call, and he says we must be in the squares, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0018par0088	Mr. Grandson...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0019par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. First, today, three of our soldiers and two of our officers were killed in Hakkari and Siirt. I wish you God's mercy, my condolences to our nation. After these painful events, it is of utmost importance to Turkey's normalisation and democracy that the process must be carried out within the framework of the law, that the trials be carried out in a transparent manner, that the process is not transformed into a witch hunt. From here, I want to warn the political government, the government's rulers and the independent judiciary once again, to underline the need for justice and transparency of the proceedings, without breaking the rules of the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0020par0094	Mr. Green...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0021par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. It is a great responsibility to all of us that the age of the body is burned as well as the public dismissal of the coup attempt on July 15th, the removal of the government, the removal of the hand-offs. However, in public, unfortunately, the belief that these practices have begun to become witch-hunts has begun to awaken. Is it known to the public how many people have been relieved of duty but have not been linked to the Fethullah terrorist organization? Will there be any explanation as to when these individuals will be reinstated? Public officials who are subject to investigations with false reports are left with financial and spiritual problems. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0022par0099	Mr. Result...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0023par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. These days, when our country is going through a difficult process, officers in the congregation's construction have been suspended from duty regarding the dismissals of all of our government's institutions that have caused the unrest. In order not to make the same mistakes again, these officers must be placed in institutions in line with the merit system. We demand that officers, who have no organic ties to the construction of the congregation, be shown the necessary sensitivity to not be victimized by the powers vested in governors within the scope of the State of Emergency. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0024par0104	Mr. Dalkulic...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0025par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. On the evening of the 15th of July, I salute our beloved nation, who have resisted the attempt to invade our country with no party to see the difference. From that day forward, I salute all our brothers and sisters who have been on a democracy watch in the square, filling the squares. Meanwhile, an extraordinary perception of Turkey is being conducted abroad through television, through the press and they are devastated by the failure of the coup. I call from here to all my brothers who live in Germany, France, Vienna, Europe: You, along with this struggle for democracy, stand up in the total struggle, please show your democratic response. At the same time, I say with one verse: "Do not relax, do not grieve; you are the ones who will certainly prevail, if you are true believers. " I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0026par0110	Mr. Kringle...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0027par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Our nation, our values, our great Assembly, against all of our institutions, we have eliminated an illegal gang of terrorists nested within the Turkish Armed Forces with the dignity and standing of our noble nation in this low, treacherous coup attempt on July 15th by traitorous terrorists. The whole world should know that no one can afford to chain these people. These mighty nations have said, "Stop with their faithful breasts." They have sacrificed their lives for what they believed in. We see death not as an end, but as a gateway to eternity, and we race against each other to enter that door. Thankfully, we put our clothes on and went on this journey, and we have a commander-in-chief who calls this holy land a sacrifice of our lives.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0026par0115	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0028par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. That's the first time I've had a word since July 15th. Again, on July 15th, I condemn those who attempted a coup in our country, those who tried a coup in our country, and I curse every blow from whom and wherever it came from. We also have five martyrs today, and I ask God's mercy to our martyrs. After July 15th, I also care that Mr. Prime Minister changed the name of İstanbul Boğaziçi Bridge to the July 15, Martyrs Bridge, and I thank Mr. Prime Minister here, and again, I suggest that when the name of Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge is named, you know, it has created a lot of vulnerability and feisty in our country. I, too, recommend to the Prime Minister that the name of Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge be changed to the bridge of Yunus Emre or the bridge of Love Veysel, as a gesture at this time when the atmosphere of reconciliation and love is condensed in our country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0029par0122	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0030par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, I curse the massacre of ISIS, which killed dozens of people. Again, on the night of July 15th, I strongly condemn the construction of the coup attempt that took place in our country in a violent attempt. I believe that everyone involved in this structure should be judged fairly, not tortured as a crime of humanity, not to be seen as a potential criminal by their families and relatives. Rather than the consequences of this coup attempt, it should be focused on its motives. Reasons and segments causing this structure to feed and grow should be questioned, and measures must be taken to ensure that this structure does not become an ISIS-like structure. Aleki, the guarantee of our democracy, should prevent provocative attempts against the neighborhoods where our citizens live, the State of Emergency should be abandoned immediately, and a new constitution, which will pave the way for the full democratisation of Turkey, should be prepared as soon as possible, with the culture of reconciliation that will pave the way for Turkey's full democratisation, democratic, pluralist, all differences. Social peace must be built at once.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0031par0128	Mr. Shield...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0032par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. For 13 days, after a low coup attempt, we've been in the square with our citizens on a democracy watch, on the streets. The squares have important messages for us politicians: One, we need to know that they're behind us, no matter what, against our external and internal enemies. 2) That members of the Fethullahist terrorist organization who attempted a low coup should be tried immediately with the most severe punishment, 3) In the same way that the situation of reconciliation continues, 4) They want a new constitution based on the presidential system to be implemented.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0033par0136	Oh, what a mess!
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0032par0137	To listen to our nation's demands and not waste time...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0033par0138	What a disgrace! What the hell!
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0032par0139	...that we must perform the necessary work, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0033par0140	Do you know what you're doing, what you're saying?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0034par0141	Finally, Mr. Birkan, please.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0035par0143	On July 15th, there was a low-down coup attempt by terrorists. Under the leadership of our President, our people have defied this coup attempt. Our people have now recorded the date of July 15 as a legacy of history. From now on, in the oppressed countries, tanks, cannons and democracy of that country will not be silenced by those who are fed by imperialists; the 15th of July is the dawn of this history. In that sense, I wish the martyrs mercy in the repelling of this coup attempt, and I wish all of our veterans well. Again, all our people and political parties have supported this coup. Time is no longer a time to discuss the past, but to learn from our past that the country will come to light...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0036par0147	Thank you, Mr. Birkan, lawmakers. Mr. Baluken, you've entered the system. I'll give you two minutes. Please come in.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0037par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to say that we have once again condemned and cursed the massacre of ISIS gangs in the city of Kamishli in Rojava. A violent attack has been carried out on more than 50 inhabitants of Rojava who have lost their lives and injured more than 100 people. Since yesterday, our House has been silent about this, unresponsive. And I'd like to say that I find this attitude extremely vague, and I condemn it. Citing the ISIS attack anywhere in the world, the Parliament fell into great silence when it lost more than 50 percent of its citizens in the ISIS attack in Rojava. Let me remind you that Hamishli is no different than Nusaybin, and Kobani is no different than Suruç. The global imperial boundaries drawn there by a ruler have separated first-degree relatives on two lines of the border. Every citizen who has lost his life in Adışlı has a first-degree relative in Nusaybin. For example, nine relatives of our Mardin MP Gülser Yıldırım were killed in this brutal massacre yesterday. So the attack was carried out on Nusaybin, Suruç, Kamişlı, Kobani. I offer this, of course, desperately, to the discretion of this House. On the other hand, a number of laws are being passed, along with the state of emergency. We've expressed our position from the beginning, that the coup attempt should be cursed, that the measures related to the coup should be taken, but all of this... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll put you through, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0038par0158	Please, finish in a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0037par0160	We have stated that all of this must be carried out in the context of the state of law and human rights. In the name of combating the attack, we found the practice that had been transformed into a witch hunt on media or public space dangerous. Now, with yesterday's decision, we have three news agencies, 16 televisions, 23 radios, 45 newspapers, 15 magazines, 29 publishing houses and distribution channels, and I would like to express our concern about how much the law-state criteria have been implemented. On the other hand, the Home Secretary had a statement today that the police would be equipped with heavy weapons. I mean, a police painting equipped with heavy weapons and heavily armed weapons is a painting that makes this community nervous. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Out of here is democracy, with the rapid implementation of the steps to democratization. I thank you all of Turkey's society, 79 million people, need to quickly relax, rest, and normalize.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0039par0165	Thank you. Mr. Akçay, come in. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0040par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. The July 15 coup attempt is a terrorist act aimed at our nation's unity, state's share, the integrity of the country. Those who participate in the coup attempt will be judged in this reality and will receive the punishment they deserve, that is our wish. The process of judgment is a process we must all follow carefully. Our nation is anxious; justice is on the back of the knife, while public institutions and civil society are cleaning our country, the principle of the state of law must not be abandoned, and judicial processes must not be personalized. It would undermine the sense of justice to continue a judicial process without based on objective data, information, and documents. I'd like to remind you one more time about this. Justice is a system of values independent of our daily accounts. The crime is obvious, and the punishment is clearly written in the law. As a legal state, we must stick to justice, we must get away from it. Another important thing I see is that unfortunately, we've just witnessed, while our country is trying to get through such chaos and chaos, while its people are shielding its chest against tanks, while its desire to have democracy and the legal state in society and political parties begins to emerge with a common spirit, while our martyrs' blood is still dry, while we continue to give martyrs, while some raw and shallow minds are still trying to recover from chaos.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0041par0174	Mr. Akçay, let's finish in a minute, please.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0040par0175	I condemn the statements that try to raise presidents from this chaos. Our country is under heavy attack by terrorist organizations. At the same time, the attacks of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) continue, especially while fighting the public construction of the fethullahist terrorist organization. Three of our soldiers were killed yesterday during the passage of the military vehicle in Siirt. In Hakkari, two of our police officers were killed in an attack on the police station by terrorists, and one of them was killed in an attack by civilians, 10 of whom were police officers, 11 of whom were injured. I ask God's mercy on our martyrs, his sorrowful relatives, and his condolences on the great Turkish nation, and immediate healing for our wounded. The Turkish nation stands firm in the face of any terrorist activity. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Whether it's the PKK or ISIS, Turkey is too powerful to submit to these tyrants. Anti-terrorism is a national case. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0042par0181	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Altay, please. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0043par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, an inhuman massacre took place in the city of Kamişlı, across the district of Mardin province. For those who have lost their lives here, the information we have may be 52, or more, because we know that 170 others have been injured - I ask God's mercy first. We are waiting for the fact that Turkey -- as a member of a group said earlier -- has shown its reflex in Paris, in Rome, in such attacks, to show the government here as well. Every victim of terrorism is one to us, no matter what color, language, religion, race. In this regard, it is unacceptable for the state to have a reduction in its reflexes towards other terrorist organisations in the region after the July 15th initiative. Again, on behalf of the Republican People's Party group, we condemn this vile attack with violence and hatred, and pray for immediate healing for the wounded. On the other hand, this morning, yesterday, we were shocked by the news that three of our soldiers, two of our officers, were martyrs. At the point of the end of the terror, we have always stressed the need for the Council to bring about the end of terror on Turkey's side, on its edge, on its side, on its end, on its end, on its end, on its side, the unity, on its force. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is a parliament that has worked under bombs. As for the terror problem, I'd like to immediately... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing up. I didn't use it yesterday either, you know.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0044par0193	Let's finish in a minute, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0043par0195	I request that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey show high sensitivity in this matter as well. On the other hand, in Europe, we see some assessments of the July 15 coup in some press release organizations. We don't find these evaluations significant, so we call your ball my ass. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0045par0199	Thank you. Mr. Incescuz, I'll give you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0046par0203	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I would like to point out that I have attended the final assessment of Mr. Engin, especially these criticisms from the foreign press. It all took place in front of Turkey and in front of the world, images... what happened on the night of July 15th is clearly a coup attempt by a structure that infiltrated within state institutions, especially the Turkish Armed Forces, and had camouflaged themselves for years, by sneaky traitors, and in that sense, it is evident. With the same conviction, we've made it clear that we don't accept all of these criticisms, all of the press who wrote unfairly and unfairly and distorted the facts, we're calling them from here, and we're making it clear that we don't accept them. What happened here on the night of July 15th, against the coup attempt, you know, the State of Emergency has been ordered to fight this terrorist organization, by law. We want to make a specific point here: these are steps that must be taken to clear the structure within our country, our democracy, our state, in all areas, within its institutions. Here we thank Parliament from the bottom of our hearts for its attitude. A second issue: We're talking about a coup attempt by a structure that has infiltrated the Turkish Armed Forces in particular. And in that sense, we need to give the right to both our heroic soldiers and our law enforcement forces in the police force, who are fighting with heroic, selfless disregard for their lives, to make the distinction very clear. We need to distinguish between uniformed traitors and our true soldiers in uniform from criticism, and I don't think we should make a total assumption. We need to be careful with that distinction.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0047par0207	Please complete it in a minute.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0046par0208	While July 15th reminisces with the mercy of our martyrs who have lost their lives in the coup attempt, our struggle today will not only continue with the Fethullahist terrorist organization, but with the determination of our fight against the PKK terrorist organization, while I pray to God again for the mercy of our soldiers, our martyrs who have lost their lives. Hopefully, Turkey will move on from here, with much more strength from this process, from its institutions, with determination and determination to fulfill its goals ahead of it, I salute you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0047par0210	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. Your presidency...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0048par0213	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0047par0214	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0048par0216	Let me point out two things: five of our security guards have been martyred -- our First President failed to mention the time -- we ask for God's mercy. The fight against terror will go on with absolute determination. We strongly condemn the terror of the cocks. The TVs have shown it, it's atrocity. A woman, an old woman, a woman of her own, has become a symbol of the disaster that happened to her by hitting her knees, as I see it. It's a hell of a disaster. There's no difference, no matter who does it, we curse the people who come in with bombs and slaughter them.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0047par0218	Thank you. We are also cursed by terrorist organizations and acts of terror. No matter who it comes from, no matter who it's against, all terrorist activity is cursed once again. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has its presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine and resolve the problems of the white meat industry, which contributes seriously to the country's economy and society's diet, we respectfully present a research commission based on Article 98, Article 104, Article 105, and Article 105. [[Edirne]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Artvin]] [[Ankara]] [[Burdur]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mughle]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Scholarship]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Hatay]] [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Isparta]] 22) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] 23) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] The problems of the chicken industry, which contributes seriously to our country's economy and exports, are increasing day by day. Although the second half of the 2000s were seriously affected by bird flu disease that affected the world, the modern business and a completely hygienic production and market access policy are facing many problems today for various reasons in Turkey's economy. In addition to about 200,000 people working directly in the sector, the problems of the white meat sector, which over a million people have provided for, are very important for our country's economy, given the families who run the side industry, suppliers and henhouses. Many companies operating in our country today in the white meat industry are in danger of going under. Companies operating in many parts of Turkey have faced serious financial problems and have demanded a postponement or bankruptcy. Again, production capacity is at the top of its list, and many companies producing large-scale production are struggling with the economic crisis and are unable to pay their debts. The economic size of chicken-cutting waste, which was released in 2011 and was implemented as of 2016, is also a huge economic decision to ban use of chicken flour in high-pressure sterilized containers, such as internal organs, feathers, heads. If, for this reason and for many other reasons, companies operating in the hard-working white meat sector are in straits, markets are not regularly supplying the market with goods, they declare their bankruptcy and withdraw from the market, many people who support themselves from the industry will be out of work. The industry, where serious investments are being invested, where resources are being spent for modern facilities, we're afraid that at this rate, it might even become an external dependant. If these unconscious policies continue, as in red meat, soon the imported white meat will be on the agenda. The price of chicken meat, a cheap source of animal protein for healthy and balanced diet, will also affect poor families. The white meat industry is an industry that uses almost all of our country's corn production. The downside of the industry will be negatively affected by farmers who produce corn. Therefore, with respect to all the dimensions of the industry and to the extent that the problems of the white meat sector, which contributes seriously to the economy of the country and the diet of society, should be identified and resolved by all the dimensions of the issue. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly State Department 5. Its apartment (2013/8367) is based on the website of the State Department and 2nd District. In light of decisions issued on the main files of his office (2013/10363), we propose the opening of Parliamental research on the grounds that the current appointments of 1,709 branch managers were not cancelled and that no reassignment of the candidates with the arithmetic average of their written and verbal exams should not be made. [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Antalya]] 4) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Erzurum]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Mersin]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Ankara]] [[Isparta]] [[Balıkesir]] 17) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Sakarya]] It was published on 31 August 2013 and on 28751 in the Official Gazette. In accordance with this framework regulation of the Council of Ministers, the National Ministry of Education issued by the National Ministry of Education on October 12, 2013, the Official Gazette 28793 was issued a regulation on the rise of the Ministry of National Education staff in office, the change of title and the establishment of placement. In summary of both regulations, it has been said that the candidate will be given a verbal examination of up to five times the number of positions or positions announced, with at least 75 out of 100 areas of the oral exam to be considered successful, and only the oral exam results will be a key score for appointment. In accordance with the proposed regulation, the ESYM took a written test on 29 December 2013, followed by oral exams from 10-28/2/2014 by the Ministry of National Education. On 16/4/2014, the appointment was based solely on verbal, interview points. Before the appointment was made, relevant regulations for the appointment of Turkish Education-SEN based solely on oral test scores and the cancellation of various substances were brought to trial by the Court. In this direction, District 5. (Default 2013/8367) A decision has been made by the agency to stop the execution of number (2013/10363). In summary of both decisions, it was said that the written test, which is objective, cannot only be appointed by oral examinations to appoint branch managers, cannot be excluded from evaluation. However, the Ministry of National Education has not cancelled its appointment as branch manager, based on the results of the oral examinations alone, based on the rankings of achievements under which the execution was halted. 1) The subject of which training unions the 1,709 branch managers who won the written exam must be investigated. 2) The National Ministry of Education should investigate the reasons why judicial decisions are not implemented. 3) It must be investigated as to why there is no action against those responsible for the failure of judicial decisions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are about 5 million farmers in Turkey. The focus of the social and economic prosperity of developed countries lies in the importance of agriculture and the development of agriculture. In developed countries, agriculture has a great share and importance of cooperatives and farming organisations. Our country's agricultural co-ops have failed to reach levels in developed countries. Our country's agricultural input levels are increasing day by day. The rise in input prices reduces the rate of fertilizer use, causing the decline of efficiency and quality. The variables in diesel and fertilizer prices are crucial to the sustainability of agriculture. In view of the use of agricultural support from 2 million farmers in our country, 2m 100,000 farmers registered in the farmers' registering system, agricultural inputs are required to be controlled and production costs reduced. Recently, written and visual media have shown that foreign capital banks offer credit options with the promise of attractive payability. Taking time to get loans from public banks leads farmers to loans from foreign-owned banks. Our underprivileged farmers are routed to loans shown to them as hope. As a result of imbalances in market prices, farmers who are unable to repay their efforts are unable to pay their loans on time. Farmers who can't pay off their debts by getting a loan from another bank are on their way to closing their debts, which deepens the problem. Thousands of farmland across Turkey are especially under mortgage clamps from private banks. The legal arrangements for restructuring our farmers' debts must be immediately issued. Many farmers migrate to large cities by selling agricultural land. The government must speed up arrangements to implement the support needed to ensure that the farmers will be fully compensated for their efforts. According to the latest BDK data, the total loan used in agriculture in 2014 includes loans that have been followed by around 3.45 per cent. The large percentage of credits reduced to follow-up loans -- when examined by banks -- is seen to be owned by foreign capital banks. Farmers who can't afford to pay their loans face foreign hands. Our farmers are dying of their land when they want to save their crops, their futures. This question should not be forgotten that it will provide the basis for major problems in the coming years. In order to determine and determine the problems of our farmers due to their loan debt, I propose and propose that Parliament's investigation be opened under Articles 98, 104, 105 of the Constitution, and 105 of the Civil Code. [[Bolu]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 6) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] 7) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 12) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 14) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Sinop]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, we move to the part of the agenda with the Bill of Laws and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume our talks with the 1st ranked International Labor Law Bill and the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In yesterday's merger, the votes were completed in the first chapter of the Law Bill 403, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter is the 28th joke of the 28th article, (3) the (a), (a), (b), (b), (c), (c), (d) the bents, (e) the bends, (f) the bends, (g), (g) and (g) thebends, (e) and (7) the jokes, (6) the (c) the joke, (6) the joke (a), the joke (a), the me (b), the me, (c), the me (c), the me (d) and (e) the me, (e) the me, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, the joke, and I. Now, members of parliament who want to speak on the second chapter: On behalf of their group, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, on behalf of Şanlıurfa MP Mahmut Kozar, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Cyber Yiğitalp, Kayseri MP Cetin Aşek, on behalf of the People's Party Group of Cumhuriyet People's Party (HDP) MP Mustafa Kalaycı and İsmail Tamer on behalf of the individuals. The first word on behalf of the groups is for the Justice and Development Party Group, Şanlıurfa MP Mahmut Kozar. No. The other word on behalf of the groups is for Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Gibraltar. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] You've had ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0049par0404	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I began my speech, an attack was launched yesterday morning in the city of Kamımlı, Rojava. I curse this anti-human, murderous ISIS mentality, the barbarian mob. I ask God's mercy for those who have lost their lives. My condolences to the people of Rojava and their families, especially the Kurdish people, and to the wounded. First of all, we thought we'd be able to agree more on the bill we discussed. Still, I find it a positive step to agree on a few jokes. Which means it can be compromised at will. I hope that the basis of reconciliation is learned from this July 15th, and I hope that the ground of reconciliation continues to increase. We, the HDP, have stated on every platform that capitalism, labour exploitation, the gap in income distribution, hunger and poverty must be brought to the minimum. We advocate that domestic or foreign workers and labourers have economic and social conditions worthy of human dignity, and we will continue to defend them. The inequal positions of female workers and workers in the production process must be included in every bill. So when we discussed the bill at the commission to make sure that a fundamental law for foreign persons will be carried out in action, we insisted that there be a subcommittee, and we suggested that the work be continued there. If a subcommittee had been established, this bill would have been much better prepared. No matter how hard we try, trade organisations and NGOs have not been included enough. We've been able to predict the shortcomings of non-inclusion of these institutions. If it had been included enough, there would have been a bill shared by each part of society, and the social consensus would have been more established. Mr. President, it is a humanitarian obligation for us to offer refugees who were forced to emigrate because of the war and forced to come to Turkey a secure work, life and reasonable income during the process they are in. In our country today, broadly defined unemployment is 20 per cent and 40 per cent unregistered work. In our country, which adopts not production and employment, but is based on consumption and debt-based production, an unplanned and unsupervised employment policy for refugees will further increase unemployment and non-registership. It will lead to a rivalry among those who are scheduled to be employed under the definition of domestic and foreign labor force, not to establish public order, but to break down. What needs to happen is a production policy based on employment. As the bill has not made any arrangements for these problems, its goal is not to employ refugees, but to provide cheap labor for the capital. We can also understand that from the quality workforce emphasis on the bill. I'd like to reiterate that it's a fundamentally segregating practice for foreign workers to determine Turkish nobility as an advantage to the adoption of a work permit. Clearly, it is not guaranteed to be a qualified and trained labor force of any kind. Therefore, it is irrational that special genealogical practices regarding work permit are determined by the characteristics of individuals such as race, race, and ethnic origins that they themselves do not decide on. Dear lawmakers, do you know what a bill for foreign labour should really be like? It had to be even, it didn't have to be discrimination, it didn't have to be wholesale. He had to be an equalist because he shouldn't have been discriminated against by a qualified-principal labor force. He had to cover all the foreigners who had to run away from the war and come here, give them all the same opportunities. Seasonal workers should include those you call unregistered. It shouldn't be discriminated against, it shouldn't be an exceptional substance for a certain race. The same conditions should apply to all peoples. It shouldn't be a wholesaler, women should be treated with positive discrimination for the disabled. You should know that women are the most affected by wars. In addition to all this, it had to be explained to the entire community, to be united and prepared for reconciliation. The jokes of Article 28 that we will continue to discuss today are asked to remove the application for the relevant ministry's opinion from the Ministry of Interior. It is not appropriate for public servants not to have security checks. This joke must be removed from the text. Again, the nineth joke of the relevant clause is that public health workers must be removed from being Turkish or citizens of the country. What criteria will you observe when employing foreign medical personnel? How are you going to determine if these people are competent? Health rights are a protected right by the Constitution. This provision, which could endanger public health, must be removed from the bill. Again, in the relevant joke of the same article, foreign students have a weekly working period. On the basis of the relevant bill, foreign students registered in knitting programmes are being given the right to work at a higher education institution in Turkey. However, the arrangement for foreign students' work permits is organised in Article 41 of Law 6485, and foreign students can already work in short-term jobs, provided they do not exceed 24 hours a week. As in the foreseeable law, the working time must be set at 24 hours. Under the relevant law (h), the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting is requested to be removed. Seasonal workers are already the country's most disadvantaged group. Is it reasonable to confront over 4 million seasonal workers who already work for low wages and under inhuman conditions, and also foreign workers? The working conditions of seasonal workers who are already working should be organised, while the fact that foreign workers should be included in this employment will cause irreversible problems. The initial permission of the ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, which is in this area, must not be removed in any way. Dear lawmakers, as a result, the bill that we are currently looking at means legalizing an unsupervised flow of capital and an unsupervised service presentation. In one sentence, this law will make the workers in our country a refugee. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0050par0419	Thank you. On behalf of the other groups, Kayseri MP Cetin Arık is a member of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Arik.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0051par0423	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. First of all, I wish God's mercy to our fallen soldiers today, and my condolences to our great nation. I would like to begin by asking God's mercy for our soldiers, police and civilian citizens who were killed in the July 15 coup attempt by terrorists hiding behind Mehmetçik's clothes. Those traitors who bombed their own Parliament, shot at their own people, tried to turn the police against them without sin, would never be Turkish soldiers, but they would be terrorists. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In addition, I would like to thank our citizens from the moment the coup attempt was heard, who, regardless of their political views, landed on the streets with Turkish Flags, believing that democracy and the parliamentary system are one body against the coup. Dear lawmakers, in these difficult days past, it is necessary not to shake and strengthen the climate of unity and unity in the face of this danger, which is still unresolved in these historic days. And this is the best example of unity and unity, as representatives of this nation, on the night of July 15th, under bombs, under the roof of the Veteran Assembly. Yes, under no circumstances should the Veteran Assembly, who worked in battle in the Battle of Salvation, or even commanded the war, be shut down under any circumstances. Unfortunately, with the State of Emergency ruling last week, the House has been rendered ineffective by the decree that only the government will be an actor. However, it would be best to act as a Parliamentary government in a similar way to what our Parliament had done during the Instruction War, which would be the best answer to enemies and evil centers that are trying to lead our country to disaster. Yes, what was supposed to happen was to activate the Veteran Assembly. Dear lawmakers, everyone knows that during the period of 1980 to date, the Fethullahist terrorist organization has infiltrated the institutions of our state in an increasing amount of time. In the process, we all know that the former AKP governments were the greatest plagues, the greatest shareholders. This must be accounted for, of course, but today is not the day for this reckoning. What needs to be done today is that no new mistakes have been made under the name of salvation. Dear lawmakers, the public liquidation also shows that one of Turkey's most important problems lies in the protection system, which excludes the integrity system. The registration system can be described as the distribution of public servants on the basis of a specific ideology, on the basis of belonging to a political party or on the basis of commitment. Sadly, in the 21st century of our country, this system of favor, which is still largely abandoned in the 19th century, continues to be a largely dominant understanding. A new public concern has arisen after these purges. Our citizens are concerned that another congregation, another cult member, will be placed instead of members of the public-deployed CHP, and that such an attempt is the greatest betrayal of this country. There must be and there must be merit in taking office in the state. Dear lawmakers, how many buckets of water do you get from Lake Van with the children of the nation? How many thorns do hedgehogs have? Those who make fun of ridiculous questions such as this? On the other hand, those who give their members questions before the examination, those who allow them to get a job at various institutions, must apologize to this nation and also to the rights of their children who have been wronged. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, throughout history, the concepts of law and justice have always been important. It is justice to distinguish between right and wrong. The concept of justice involves law enforcement. The law, if everyone obeys it and respects it, is a valid sentence. If it becomes a habit to go outside the law, to create a real state by going outside the law, especially if those who rule the country, who possess the power of power, do so will lose the law. Justice is considered to be the fourth basic value in all religion, after believing in God, the Prophet, and the Hereafter. Justice is the foundation of property, state and freedom. Dear lawmakers, justice, justice, rights and law in the rule of law cannot be met; there can be no mention of basic rights, peace and happiness, such as freedom of faith and freedom of thought, freedom of rights and freedom of enterprise; there is no climate of unity and unity that our great nation desires with national will. Dear MPs, I'd like to share with you my opinion on the International Labor Law Bill, which is being discussed in our General Assembly. First of all, I must point out that a solid building cannot be built on a broken foundation. This bill looks like a building built on a virtually broken foundation. The reason for the bill is that we are now a country that was immigrated from the country that emigrated in the 1960s, with a very wrong determination. That's a very wrong and misleading statement. Here is a voluntary migration, based on economic grounds, which comes to Turkey for fear of civil wars from countries such as Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, Syria, where global forces destabilise. It's a ridiculous argument to present the survival of these people as proof that Turkey is a center of attraction. The most important indicator of a country's attraction is the migration of a qualified brain migration, the coming of a qualified brain migration from developed and developing countries, the return of grown-up people from their country. Dear lawmakers, another reason for the bill is to facilitate the arrival of qualified foreigners into our country. Before facilitating the arrival of qualified foreigners into our country, measures must be taken to prevent our own qualified citizens from going abroad, to keep them in the country. See, according to the OECD, about 4 per cent of Turkey's highly educated population have gone abroad. Congressmans, when we look at the structure of our country's labour market, the basic indicators point not to the labour market deficit, but to the job deficit, which is unemployment. Today, we have nearly 80 million dynamic populations, citizens who can do business at any age, any branch. With that fact in the open, when our local and national human resources are out of work, it's only reckless to pursue the next task force by leaving the country while our citizens wait for the opening of new jobs for their children who can't find a job. The claim of the mind to be domestic and national that brings such a bill to our attention is also unrealistic. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, as you know, in the past few months, the government has had an initiative to ensure Turkish citizens travel to European Union countries with visa exemptions, in return the European Union has promised to block refugees' right to free asylum. This illegal agreement was presented to the public by the Turkish Prime Minister of Time as ▪ Kayseri negotiations. Of course, as the Kaisers, we have expressed that we do not accept this adjective, that we reject it, that the Kaiser will not negotiate on human life, that he is on the side of labor and sweat, and we will continue to express it. At this point, countries of the European Union have declined to grant visa exemptions to Turkish citizens with too much prejudice, despite all the concessions made by the AKP government. I'd like to ask you now, on behalf of my nation from the nation's bench, what is the purpose of our attempts to give our citizens a work permit, even citizenship, when the European Union does not even accept our citizens as tourists? Is it intended to make Turkish citizenship and work permits a commodity that can be bought from the market? I want the ruling party to come back from this wrong and withdraw the law proposal. I salute you all with love and respect, thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0052par0443	Thank you. On behalf of their group, the final word belongs to Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Kalayci will also have a say in the name of one man, so I'm putting them together, and I'm giving you 15 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0053par0448	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the second part of the 403 rows under discussion, and I hereby salute you all. As I begin my words, I once again curse the July 15 coup attempt with hatred and violence. The coup attempt of criminals who turned their eyes on our nation, our Parliament, our national institutions and organizations to bomb and shoot them has never been successful. I am proud and proud to be a member of the great Turkish nation, who fought with their lives against the coupters, the tanks, the helicopters, the planes, the heavyest guns, the bullets, and the bombs, to repel the coup attempt, to show the world its supreme courage and the choice of democracy. Turkish nation is greater than traitors, democracy is greater than coup. Whether it's the PKK/PYD or ISIS, they won't be able to beat Turkey, they won't be able to beat the Turkish nation. Turkey is too powerful to be eaten by tyrants. Let's stick to Turkey's national cause and sovereignty. There are issues that need to be taken care of in an active and multi-dimensional fight with the terrorist organisation. First of all, it must be based on solid evidence and documents when dealing with individuals. All elements of the parallel state structure must be identified, all of them must be brought to justice, and punished with the most severe punishment. It's as dangerous as the cruelty of a terrorist organization to take away the rights of innocent people, to victimize our innocent, innocent people. We have received intense complaints and criticism that our brothers, who know their country and their nation as saints, are also treated in the same category as the PKK terrorist group. This will not be seen as right or just. With that dignity, administrative and legal measures should not be attached to the innocent, nor should their rights and human dignity be violated. Every part of society is anxious and restless. If what they say is true, without any organisational ties or ties to the terrorist organization, this structure is only being processed in the past because of its involvement in banks, associations, schools, classrooms, ministers, mayors, bureaucrats, and party administrators, it is necessary to bring in the regiment of Justice and Development Party sentences. I don't mean to accuse you of that at all, but I'm pointing out the intensity of what's happening in the same situation. On the other hand, it is clear that the AKP has ruled the country for 14 years, but has not been able to maintain the trust given by the nation, has not seen it, has not seen it. No one warned us. You can't say. The leader of the nationalist Movement Party, Mr. State Bahlı, who has not listened to his warnings for years, and who have attacked and insulted him, are the most competent mouths in the government and AKP. Again, terrorist leader Fethullah Gulen/ gives praises in advance to Fethullah Gulan/; those who line up in Pennsylvania to kiss his hand; those who say, "We gave them what they wanted for two years." Those who bring them to the most important tasks of the state, the schools, the banks and the companies, the organizations, the foundations, the unions, the media, all the institutions, and all the resources of the state. Therefore, those in power who were in charge of responsibility, and those in charge and those in charge of this process had deceived us, we were naive, we were foolish. If innocent people are being victimized, persecuted, they are being subjected to false accusations for political or other purposes, you can't account for this in both worlds, you can't get rid of it, you can't get rid of the wrath of God above all. So what we expect from the government is not to confuse the guilty, the innocent, while the terrorist organization is being eradicated. On the other hand, today's reports of martyrs are being reported in succession as a result of the low-down attacks by the PKK. In Hakkari and Siirt, we have three soldiers, two martyrs of the police. I pray for the mercy of God to the heroic sons of the Fatherland, the patience and condolences to their families and to our great nation, and to our wounded brothers and sisters, and to heal and cure them quickly. As with the PKK and other terrorist organisations, why is it not being processed by those who have access to it? Those in the direction of state-owned terrorist organizations, especially municipalities, must be immediately suspended and brought to justice. Again, the association, the foundation, which has a relationship with terrorist organisations, has to be carried out immediately concerning all private institutions and companies. The people, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and the other terrorist organizations must be eradicated, the traitors, the scoundrels, and the traitors must be accounted for, and the punishments they deserve. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in the meantime, I'd like to bring up another matter. Let's now address the economic and social problems of our proud policemen in the fight against the coupgers. Whether working or retiring, let's ensure that our police can lead a peaceful, respectable, safe, human life without any need for a day. The Turkish police's main demand is to boost additional indicators. Our officers, all of whom are well-educated, want the 3600 additional indicators rightfully. They want to be given the practice of many staffs that can be set up as a precedent for the public, as well as the 3600 additional indicators given to them. As the National Movement Party, we expect and demand that law enforcement workers do so quickly to improve their rights and working conditions, including 3600 additional indicators for our police. Dear lawmakers, the bill we're negotiating has been set up for international labour. In the following years, Turkey, which has been sending labour forces abroad since the 1960s, has also become the country that foreign labour force accepts and is used as a transit route for transit immigrants. Our country has been flooded with immigrants, especially in recent years. As a result of intense migration movements towards our country, there have been attempts to harmonise the immigration regime with policies and practices that apply to the world, even if it is delayed. However, practices that support economic development and do not reduce the employment opportunities of our own workforce have yet to be created fully. Turkey is unable to provide sufficient employment for its labour force, and one of the main socioeconomic problems is unemployment. The unemployment problem has become chronic during AKP rule. In particular, young unemployment is at high rates, even according to official data. The lack of sufficient dryness of the bond between employment and education and the lack of the level required for vocational education in terms of the labour market's needs has caused imbalances between the quality of manpower and the demand of the labour market, and has simultaneously led to unemployment and empty employment positions. As a matter of fact, there are millions of unemployed people in our country, but today our employers are having trouble finding qualified employees they are looking for, even in some professions. The lack of employment according to necessity is a concrete indicator of the failure and failure of AKP governments, which have ruled the country for more than 14 years. Turkey's young population is higher than most countries. Unfortunately, this fact that we consider strategic superiority and national wealth does not see the attention and intimacy it deserves. It is impossible to say that education, employment opportunities, and standard of living are the guarantees of our future, enough for our young ones, who you repeatedly repeat. Millions of our young people are looking for work, demanding a human job and a means of income without need for anyone. That's their right, of course. The failure to find a solution to the unemployment problem in our country and the lack of adequate employment opportunities for the young population have led to the widespread trend of migration abroad, especially in the highly qualified workforce. According to OECD data, the number of people who have received higher education from Turkey abroad increased by 82 per cent in 2010 compared to 2002. While some arrangements for foreign labour are necessary, we, as a country, need to reverse brain migration, as well as determine a planned labour force migration policy, first we need to implement policies that will allow our qualified workforce to remain in the country and return those who go to other countries. Dear lawmakers, there are many problems in our country awaiting a solution to working life. In this scope, all parts of society should be given the necessary structural reform to build a working life and labour market, where the quality of the labor force is improved, the working conditions are improved, the employment relationship is strengthened, the work health and safety of the workforce market must be done quickly, and the measures must be taken. Subcontractor work has become the main problem of working life. The practice of subcontractor work, which ignores the proper job description for human dignity, has disturbed the balance of working life, causing a major economic and social damage. The policies that have become equivalent to the system of slavery and are unacceptable should be abandoned at once. The AKP government has stalled subcontractors for years and is constantly deceiving them. Nothing has been done so far, despite the promise that public contractors will be given a staff. All subcontractors were given the good news by the Prime Minister, and the subcontractors experienced a bit of holiday cheer, but were disappointed when details were explained. The subcontractors, which are announced to be public, are already working in the public business, and according to judicial decisions, they are considered public workers, and are primarily awaiting public employment. Instead of implementing policies aimed at preventing unemployment, the AKP has established an exploitation scheme by transforming unemployment's negativity into opportunity. Today, many public services have been conducted by staff, especially subcontractors, under contract, 4/C, proxy, temporary, honorary and employee status. The main victim of these practices, which the AKP has carried out in order to achieve political humidity, is our unemployed young people, who are non-compulsive and unable to find employment in these ways. These are our millions of young people who have not been appointed to win the central exam, who have never been in line, and whose staff has been filled in other ways before their turn has come. The AKP government has eaten and continued to eat the rights of our youth, millions of victims of KPSS, who have been waiting to be appointed for years. The government, which remains insensitive to structural problems related to working life and does not give up its exploitation and slavery system, has begun to organise foreign labor. The AKP government, which has not been able to provide jobs for unemployed young people, has not claimed millions of young people who have taken the KPSS exam, has been concerned about running foreign labor force. See, in this bill, hundreds of thousands of engineers, architects, city planners are being arranged to allow foreign engineers and architects to work without regard to the principle of reciprocity, to be unlimited, irresponsible, unregistered and uncompromising. Again, the requirement for being a Turkish citizen is lifted in the areas where employment is difficult. When the law is passed, especially Syrian doctors, nurses, and other medics will be able to work under contract in vacant staffs. The government does not give to its people the resources and opportunities it provides to foreign labor. The AKP government, which does not provide staff, subcontractors, paralegals, and nurses with all the problems of health workers, makes a law to assign the Syrians to the empty staff. Although the government has made promises, it does not make arrangements for the workers' share of weariness. Again, health workers' demand that additional payments be reflected in retirement is not met. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0054par0472	Thank you, Mr. Kalayci. So the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses on the second section to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on the 28th article (2), which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the International Labor Law Bill 403 rankings shall be replaced by the "Requirement Document for the Strangers" at Table of Valuable Papers (4) under Article 21/02/ 1963, under which the 28th article of the International Labor Law is to be replaced. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Lightning Kadir Koçdemir Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Master Erhan of Deniz Depboy Now I'm going to read the most anti-matter motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill, 403, which is currently in session, be changed in the following way. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş The number of the Valued Table of Papers (4), dated 21/2/1963, was replaced in the following order and added to the same table below. (PHP 4 = 4.0.6) A residence permit is $10. ▪ 16. Foreign work permit form for $10 17. A work permit waiver certificate is 10 TL Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0055par0498	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0054par0499	Mersin MP Aytuğ Thrower will speak on the motion. Here you go, five minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0056par0502	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on the 27th joke of the International Labor Law Bill, which is being discussed. My greatest work by Ataturk. I salute the MPs who are trying to protect the secular, democratic, social law structure of the Republic of Turkey. Today, three soldiers and two police officers who have been martyred in Siirt and Hakkari, have God's mercy and my condolences to all our people. As it turns out, terrorism continues; now everyone understands much better how important our sensitivity to the routine is. Dear friends, the bill that we talked about actually came to us during the last 24th term -- the number at the time was 707. Its name at the time -- although the design was almost the same -- was the draft of the Foreign Employment Law, a bill designed to employ foreigners. However, in our country, where unemployment has risen, especially by 20 per cent of the youth unemployed, the name of this bill has been made more elegant, more fancy, more beautiful, so the envelope has changed; it has come as the International Labor Law Bill. In fact, this is the foreign employment law we're talking about, which is how foreigners are going to be employed in our country, that's the law. But we have to give a great deal of our strength on how to employ our own children. Now, we're discussing this bill by reaching a compromise with the Minister and the other commissioners. However, Mr. Secretary, after yesterday's Plan and Budget Commission meeting, a serious problem has arisen with our members of the Commission. The Plan and Budget Commission had previously fought very seriously about laundering money and bringing it to Turkey, where the relevant clause was blocked and removed from the bill, and the bill, laughing, passed through here. Now, yesterday, the Plan and Budget Commission renegotiated, agreed, and brought the clause out of the bill by joint agreement. This has severely undermined our trust. If you take a step back tomorrow in these changes that we bring to each other by compromise today, by making promises to each other, believe me, we will never speak to you again about anything, and I speak so clearly. So, our promises to each other are honest, and I'm sure those promises will be kept, and I know that you have that kind of style. Now, what do we bring with this clause, this motion? We're cheapening valuable papers, and we say, "Let's make valuable paper cheaper." On the one hand, while we were trying to reduce it to 50 liras or $10, on the other hand, with a decision published yesterday in the Official Gazette, you gave lawmakers the benefit of the holiday. This has hurt all of us very seriously, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to tell our people that such an application was not invented by the Clave. The Republican People's Party MPs or any member of parliament do not have a say in the matter. The Ministry of Labour and Social Security has decided that even on vacation, lawmakers are worn out, and they have applied the actual service increase. This is not true; this practice is wrong; it must be withdrawn immediately. It is appropriate for our citizens, it is fit for healthcare professionals, it is appropriate for law enforcement officers, but it has made it a target for all of us in public, especially for lawmakers to do so at such a time without asking the lawmakers. I repeat, this is not by the consent of the MPs. I insist again that this practice must be abandoned immediately and that this actual service increase should be applied to citizens, and I salute the high council.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit01spe0057par0511	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0057par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 120th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 403 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on the 28th article of Article (2), I submit to your votes the motion of Mersin MP Aytuğ Atcı and his friends: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the International Labor Law Bill 403 rankings shall be replaced by the "Requirement Document for the Strangers" during Table of Valuable Papers (4), dated 21/02/1963, under which the 28th Amendment of Article (2) will be replaced. Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0058par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0057par0013	Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu asking for a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0059par0016	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Party of Action Group over Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill 403. I salute the nation of St. Turk and all of you. Before I begin my speech, the traitor and my hand condemns this treacherous attack on our democracy for the first time in a coup attempt on July 15th, and today I pray to all our martyrs, especially our fallen soldiers, Allah's mercy, and his immediate healings to the wounded. Dear lawmakers, the bill we're discussing is intended to employ the imported labor force in their place while so many of our citizens are looking for a job with hope. Given the current unemployed situation in our country, there are 2 million, 824,000 unemployed Turkish citizens, according to recent statements. In particular, the crisis in tourism, which has been considered our country's chimneyless industry since recent events, and this year's declaration of loss, indicates that the operators who could survive the season in any way would be devastated by a total crash at the end of the season. This concerns us because it increases the unemployment rate. Finally, 35,000 tourists will not be able to arrive on the 23 cruises that have been cancelled in Kuşadası district of Aydın Province, my constituency district after July 15th. Due to the cancelled permits of public personnel, tourism and its employees live to the last, as officers who make up the backbone of domestic tourism cannot go on vacation. It is unfair to our citizens to receive bonuses especially for those who come from Syria, especially for those who come from Syria, under the name of foreign national workers, when there is a problem of unemployment. What's the point, what's the reason? Giving asylum seekers citizenship? In order to protect this land, the elders of the sons of our great nation, who were waiting for work, were the citizens of the state. He said, "He did not flee, he did not flee, he did not leave his homeland, he fought, and he was martyred." It's their son's right to have a job in this country, to work for his country. It is unfair to take the role of the patron of strangers when our own citizens are out of work, when they are in trouble for a living. Until yesterday, the mistakes you've made as a government are the cause of our problems today. Even if we don't bring up some accounts today to protect our unity and unity, don't think we're going to let you make new mistakes, don't think we're going to shut up like this. How many of our children, young people, waiting for work, seeking alimony to support their homes during the time of the PDY organization's seminal machete to take over the state? When we think about the problems of stolen LYS, OKS, SBS, YGS, KPSS, ALES, co-education exams, medical expertise exams, military high school exams, we also consider how the rights of our children who work day and night are being overcome by parents who study for their children through material spiritual sacrifices. And now our young men's rights to work with their hard-earned diplomas will be given to foreigners? Of course, it is normal for some of our children, some of the foreign educators and colleagues who have come to a certain place with success and knowledge, and have come to a certain place in the future of our young ones. But why are these rights given to our children, not to our young ones, when we have many trained architects, engineers, doctors, nurses? The government's greatest duty is not to open jobs for foreigners, asylum seekers, but to protect and care for their children. I would like to remind you that if you think about the betrayals of the foundations and associations that you've been working with until yesterday, especially when you've been collaborating, or rather, you've been getting along well, then you're going to have to take them under state protection. Take me to the Turkish physicians of our great leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I remind you of his words, saying, "Take our country, our nation, to the Turkish architects, to the engineers, to the graduates, to our workers, to our officers, to the high council."
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0060par0026	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 28th article (2): those who accept... those who refuse... the 28th article (2) is accepted. Now there are two proposals on the 28th article (3) (a), (b), (c), (c) and (d)bents, and (d) which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The International Labour Law Bill of 403 rows in question has been changed into Article (3) of Article 28 of Article 28 (a), (c), (a), (c) and (d) on the benchs of work permit, a work permit exemption, a residence permit for work permit, a residence permit, a residence permit, an asylum permit, a foreign work permit, a foreign work permit (b) proposal, and an adoption of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Ahmet Yurdakul Kadir Koçdemir I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article (3) of Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill, number 403 in question. We offer and propose that the lu joke (d) be removed from the substance text of the bell. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Çetin Arık İzmir Kayseri Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0061par0046	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0060par0047	İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0062par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group on Article (3) of Article 28 of the International Labor Law. With regards to the Veteran Assembly and the beloved Turkish nation watching us at the beginning of their screens. Dear MPs, our country and our nation have been under great threat and suffered great hardship in the face of the dire and extraordinary events that took place on July 15, 2016. That night, the Turkish nation was firmly united, in the spirit of unity and unity, with great courage, and became one heart against traitors. We are eternally grateful to the mighty Turkish nation for their solemn posture and courage. Our state and our nation are indivisible, and no one has broken our unity and unity, and I want to underline that. I pray to God for the mercy of our martyrs who died in the struggle for democracy, and for the patience of their grieving families. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Besides, I wish our wounded, who are still under treatment, an immediate recovery. I want to express my deep gratitude to our law enforcement forces and our soldiers who are fighting against traitors. In the evening of the coup, our leader, Mr. State Gardener, who stated that he was on the side of the state, played a decisive role in the repelling of the coup. He's been right about the danger of interoceans and Fethullah Gulen that he's been standing on for years, and history will write it down. From here, I salute our leader as a Turkish son of this beautiful country. Dear lawmakers, prior to the coup attempt, the YGS exams have been lied, the LYS exams have been lied, the KPSS exams have been lied, so in short, all exams have been lied. And the interviews and the appointments were a lie because there was corruption and deception. Discharged on different grounds was a lie, and the decisions made in justice were a lie because corruption and deception were involved. Our beloved nation's righteous cries came true. We, the National Movement Party, have brought up the right demands of our nation from these platforms, and we have passed them on, and we will continue to carry on. We owe it to our beloved nation to risk death for the struggle for democracy, my friends. This debt cannot be paid by public spotlights, this debt cannot be paid with praise. This debt is paid in full by the righteous in every step taken after this. In this regard, the ruling party must then call it the country, then the nation, my last party, the principle of the National Movement Party. I must remove the language, maintain humility, fight for our country and our nation alone, in unity and unity. The PKK, ISIS and our country must be eradicated and fought in a stable manner by all terrorist organisations that have meant to our nation. But given the demands we have received today, our nation must not be victimized by new mistakes. The proposed International Labor Law bill is stressed that it will open the way for foreign nationals to live indefinitely and work permit. Why should foreign experts be preferred when we have the same kind of Turkish experts, when we have quotas here in different countries, and we don't have quotas, we should be asked why. Again, the same bill aims to grant work permits for foreign nationals who are licensed or undergraded in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, there are 6 million registered unemployed in our country, with 700,000 college graduates. With this system, unemployment will increase, and the doors to foreigners will lock our nation's employment. International employment should not be supported unless the situation within the country is fixed, without the unemployment issue being resolved, and our own nation should be supported first. I would like to end my talk with the words of the great Commander-in-Chief Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Those who have ruled Turkey for centuries have thought a lot; they have not thought of anything alone, Turkey. Because of this indiscretion, we can only make up for the damage done by the Turkish nation in Turkey by not thinking about anything but Turkey. Let us all take this principle of Commander-in-Chief Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Thank you very much. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0063par0064	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article (3) of Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill, number 403 in question. We offer and propose that the lu joke (d) be removed from the substance text of the bell. With all due respect. Ali Yigit (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0064par0074	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0063par0075	Izmir MP Ali Yigit will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Hero.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0065par0078	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on the Article (3) of Article 28 of the International Labor Law. In the beginning of my words, I salute your grand delegation. Dear MPs, we're all in the same boat; there's no other Turkey, there's no other Anatolia, there's no other country; if we go down, we all go down together, we all go out together. For him, we need a common mind, common sense, reconciliation today more than ever, because as a country, we suffer more blows. Each blow brought our country, our democracy, back at least twenty years; it divided, separated society, destroyed the will to live together. This society no longer tolerates a new blow. That's why it's enough! Domination belongs to the nation unconditionally. He said, "People have come down to the squares." As representatives of the nation, we too have to fulfill that will. So we're going to see all our differences as wealth, and we're going to do our own reckoning without any complications. It doesn't diminish us, it doesn't shrink us, it makes us more mature, it makes us bigger. In this context, from July 15th to today, information, statements, documents have revealed how great the danger is. We've seen that those who attempt a coup are cruel enough to bomb their own Parliament, their own people. But what has happened has revealed another fact, which is that there is a problem of governance in our country, a vacuum. This weakness has spread not only to those who govern the state, but also to institutions. So we never learned from the past, never held the mirror to ourselves. I hope this is the last time. So I think we need a change of mind first, because everything starts with thought, and word and behavior starts with thought, and it starts with thought. If we can't judge and judge by the judgment and judgment of others and lock ourselves within the limits drawn, and reveal will, we'll deny the intelligence, intelligence, and existence we've been given. So the priority for all of us is to live and even improve democracy with all of its institutions and organizations. Dear lawmakers, there are three basic feet in modern democracies. One is freedom, the other is equality, the other is justice. It is our duty to first remove the obstacles to freedom, equality, and justice. But right now, I see that we're in the opposite practice. Our country has suffered other traumas before the trauma of the coup, and the environment that has been created has caused a lot of people to feel uneasy. We're getting reports of injustices from many parts of our country. However, the process must be carried out in a very delicate way, and at the top of the state, the practice of tolerance and understanding created in Parliament must be reflected. I invite the government to be more sensitive about this. Dear lawmakers, our country is one of the most affected countries in the region as well as these internal problems. We're taking a lot of migration to this country. Recently, there has been a labour migration, and on the other hand, the illegal employment of refugees from Syria, over 3 million from Syria, has given a new dimension to the problem of foreign employment. However, the bill removes our unilaterally, unilaterally, service trade restrictions. I see we're opening our doors to strangers indefinitely and making our country at a disadvantage in negotiations. The example of this is in the context of Article 28 of Article (3) (d). The arrangement has also made it possible for them to apply the application of tuition permits for the permit granted under the Article 85/3 of the Law on Elevens, which is also added to the application of a work permit, which is granted to some countries in accordance with bilateral agreements. It's not the right approach to hold residence permits and work permits together. The allowance must therefore be exempted. With these thoughts (d) I propose that the bendi be removed from the bill, and I salute your great coven.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0066par0086	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the verses of Article 28 of Article (3) (a), (b), (c), (c) and (d): those who accept... those who refuse... those who do not accept... are accepted. The 28th article (3) (e) has two proposals on me, and I read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 of Law Bill 403 (e) be replaced in the form of those who have received a work permit and a work permit from the Ministry of Social Security (e) added to Article (3) of Article 28 (e). İdris Baluken Sibel Yiğılalp Behçet Yıldırım Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Osman Baydemir Merkel Danış Beştaş I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article (3) of Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill 403 (e) which is being discussed be removed from the draft text of the draft. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Ater Cetin Arık Ali Yiğit Ünal Demirtaş Seyit Torun Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0067par0105	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0066par0106	Adana MP Coral Danış Beştaş will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0068par0108	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to express my condolences to all the wounded and my condolences to the families of those we've lost. Really, the photos that have fallen since yesterday, and the violence that happened there, unfortunately, are something we all know very well. Dear friends, yes, the fact that the threat of impact has never occurred again... we're going through a period in which there is a particularly insane atmosphere in this society and we really need to take a very good look at the public's attitude towards this coup... and the most important task and responsibility that stands before all of us... is to create social peace and atmosphere in Turkey so that this threat doesn't happen again. In society, really, right now, there's a serious crisis of trust. We're all in public, we're going to different places, what's going to happen in the future, can this blow ever happen again? We can't even watch for three or four hours, it's impossible to watch. There could be a threat at any moment, and we've moved on to another psychology in case it's this, this might be this. There is also a serious discussion of the provisions issued after the State of Emergency decision. We see these discussions not only in Turkey, but also internationally. For example, Journalists Without Borders have made a statement today and have reminded Turkey that it is already in the 151st place in press freedom, and have expressed a serious concern among 180 countries for media freedom interference, journalists' detentions. Again, in its statement, the Council of Europe has listed criticisms of the law-ordered decrees on national over-the-counter contracts and the principles of the state of law. Why am I saying this? For this reason, our statement on the first day of the State of Emergency Law remains unfortunately valid. The State of Emergency Law is a terrible law, a law made by coupgers. The government is giving the Council of Ministers enormous powers. It's out of every argument. As we stated on the first day, we had expressed the fact that the powers vested in the State of Emergency are being used very carefully and carefully by the government and that this does not harm the principle of being a state of law, democracy, rights and freedoms, but today, especially the 30 days of detention is just a reminder of torture for all of us, and the detention of journalists whom everyone knows triggers another concern. Because we didn't suddenly face a blow from a pristine, painless, democratic regime. There were these problems, and it takes a lot more care when the State of Emergency is declared upon these problems. Another thing we need to be thorough about this period is the multinational unity and non-coherent attitude and behavior. In particular, I would like to remind you that the People's Democratic Party has made the first call for the summit gathered by the President in 5tepe. Isn't HDP really this country's party? 6 million voters are citizens of Turkey, right? Do not citizens live in this country, representing a quarter of the population of Turkey, along with the families of 6 million voters? These questions are among the questions that are often asked at the moment. So why is the HDP trying to keep this compromise and social understanding out of the way? For one thing, we've always been against coups and coups because we're one of the first targets of the coup, the defenders of democracy. The coup is anti-democracy, and we all know very well how it can lead to the psychology of the people, the voters, the citizens, the Kurdish people and other peoples, other than the fact that the HDP is the third largest party in Turkey. Have the Kurds left this country? Did HDP voters show the will to leave this country? No. But what I want to say is that the separatism, the real segregation, the other thing, is that these are the kind of policies that are going to happen, and that one of the only principles that all of us are going to embrace is equality and democracy to actually deal with the coup. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0069par0117	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article (3) of Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill 403 (e) which is being discussed be removed from the draft text of the draft. Seyit Grandson (Army) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0070par0125	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0069par0126	Army MP Seyit Grandson will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Grandson.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0071par0129	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party regarding the third joke (e) of Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill 403. I salute the High Council and our beloved nation with love and respect. On July 15th, the coup attempt on our democracy against our state was once again cursed with violence, and I must express it as a mercy to our martyrs, which, by July 15th, was clearly revealed. Those who run the state must not forget their driver's license and their rights. Unfortunately, we have suffered the consequences of going to the government to be staffed by ideologies, beliefs, or political reasons. The next process is to be carried out within the framework of the law, and Turkey's normalisation is no longer necessary for our democracy. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are leading to Turkey's most important problems. With those who have given up hope of looking for work, we have 6.5 million unemployed, about 1 million college graduates and 17 million poor citizens. In this case, the government is trying to establish a law against our own citizens. In the article (3) of the 28th article of this bill, we grant exemption to foreigners, regardless of their qualifications, even if they do not need a work permit or a residence permit. It seems that in this period of trying to maintain public order and security, the government has learned no lesson from what has happened. He'll come to Turkey, he'll get citizenship, he'll get a work permit. Dear lawmakers, we consider foreign employees of non-diploma workers who can't prove their academic and professional competency -- they're not wanted -- we consider them qualified labor, we take them into citizenship; we underestimate our citizens who prove themselves to be qualified labor forces, we devalue them. Today, 444,000 engineering, architecture students studying in our country face the threat of unemployment, while more than 100,000 engineers and architects are unemployed, while unemployed citizens and young people are unable to find work, giving Turkish citizenship and exemption is not wise to hand over these important professions to foreigners based solely on a declaration. Dear friends, when developed countries don't even give tourist visas to our citizens, we tell citizens of all the countries of the world to come, no matter how you are. We'll bring them back to our country without any supervision, without any control, and we'll allow them to perform a job based on a declaration. Even Saudi Arabia, which no one wants to go to, puts our trained human strength to the test. Almost all Western countries do not give permission to work for foreigners who do not meet the conditions set by their occupational institutions, while foreigners who will come to our country will not be subject to the degree equivalent and professional competencies. It's not acceptable. With this bill, the interests of our people and our country are ignored. Our industry, our power plants, our forests, our shores and education and health are sold to foreign capital. It's nothing more than turning our qualified working force as citizens of the country over to capital's greed for profit. By destroying our citizens' rights, law and labour freedoms, it is nothing more than the eyes of political power at this time when quality education is so expensive and unreachable, it will create political rant with a turquoise card, meaning unlimited work and residence permit. It's a threat to the bright future of our country. What we have is a disregard for qualified labor. This country will pay the price, and we have no right to make citizens of this country pay the price. I salute the High Council with love and respect again.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0072par0137	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the vote of Article 28 of Article (3) (e): Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Article 28 of Article (3) (f) has a motion on me, which I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article (3) (f) be replaced in the following way by Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill 403. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Çetin Arık İbrahim Özdish The first joke of Article 90 has been added to its declaration of residence after its declaration of residence, from work permits and exemptions from work. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0073par0150	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0072par0151	Adana MP İbrahim Özdish demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Özdish.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0074par0154	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the proposed bill. Dear lawmakers, this is one of the hardest, most difficult times in our republic's history, we're going through a difficult time. Unfortunately, we have come to this day as a result of long-standing negligence, invisibility, even some insensitivity. On July 15th, we all eliminated the coup attempt by the congregation with its power, its opposition, and the support of a large majority of our citizens. This is a very important development in the democracy of our country, dear friends. However, we face a situation where we do not ignore the freedom of citizens who live in a country if the media is not free. During these days, it is clear that both detention decisions on journalists and the closing of several media outlets overnight would not be in line with democracy. It's a coup to turn off newspapers, TVs. In the media sector, where one of the three journalists is already unemployed and those who can work are deprived of job guarantees, the fact that thousands of journalists are left unemployed overnight by the decree of the State of Emergency law means tens of thousands of victims along with their families. I want to talk about here, right now, about a media siege that took place yesterday, today, in science. In Adana province, valued lawmakers, Adana Media, Adana Haber and AKDENİRTÜRK TV are unfortunately confiscated in the name of. Now, I'd like to show you a title of a local newspaper by Adana News: You don't know Murat Eren. Here's a media group of our officer, defending the rights and laws of this citizen, saying that this officer has been wronged, the Adana News newspaper is unfortunately closed today, valued MPs. Now I'm going to read from that newspaper again, the headline from a few months ago, it says: "These are the honorable soldiers of Ataturk, and these are the soldiers of Ankara. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear friends, dear lawmakers; unfortunately, the AKP is in the process of burning its age as well as its power. I wish that they would give up this practice quickly; they would implement a more serious, healthier practice; they would not set fire to many families' stoves. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0075par0164	Thank you, Your Highness. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the vote of Article 28 of Article (3) (f): Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 28 of Article (3) (g) and (g) syntax, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article (3) (g) of Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill 403, which is currently in session, be changed in the following way. Number 6 of the schedule (IV) has been changed in the following way. (IV-Securities for work permits and work permit exemptions for foreigners: 1. A valid work permit certificate and a residence permit certificate: spend the same amount per year (including 1 year) (including 1 year). $500 2. A permanent work permit: $5,000 3. Independent work permit: $15,000 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in charge, considering the principle of reciprocity, the identification of working permit fees. Foreign people whose work permit exemption period is less than three months old, and their foreign spouse, who is not his or her husband's adult or dependent child, do not receive tuition. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Cetin Arık Zulfikar Inönu Uniter Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0076par0183	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0075par0184	Adana MP Zulfikar Inönu Division demanding a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Inönu Division.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0077par0187	Mr. President, the Honorable Law of International Labor Law has a quality that allows foreigners not to give priority in the service presentation, but to give them the conditions they seek for their citizens, to offer them freely in the name of their citizens, to create an unfair competition against their own citizens, regardless of their qualifications, without having to take a work permit or a residence permit. The turquoise card is a major handicap for our own engineers, architects, city planners and doctors, which allows foreign academics to take advantage of Turkey. This bill brings a great deal of burden to our country, with many academic disciplines, as well as a large number of engineers, architects and city planners already working out of work or out of work. The phenomenon of the sovereign and social state has to work mutually in international law. Turkey should not oppress its citizens against the foreigner and not compromise against its own son. As a matter of fact, in order to solve problems, we have to increase participation in the labor force, reduce off-the-book employment. It is also inevitable that the deficit will cause irreparable injuries in the working life, given an unregistered, undocumented work permit for foreigners and increased child labor. Members of parliament, citizens are looking for answers to clear problems related to bonus debts, payment methods, amount and age to their pension. Although the SGK is under its roof, pensions are still being carried out in two groups, including BUG-KUR and the SEC. The problem is that if he's put a bonus on the BUG-KUR for more than a day and a half in the last three and a half years, the insured person gets an age barrier to retirement. This injustice must be dealt with quickly. Citizens who can't make a living on their pension and are constantly exposed are forced to live a life of anxiety in the last few years of their lives. As a result, pensions must be raised according to today's conditions, and gaps between pensions must be resolved. In comparison to monthly salaries paid in pensions for citizens who pay a large amount of social security benefits, it is clear that the money received by citizens remains low. And this injustice must be dealt with quickly. BUG-KUR and labour pensioners live on the edge of hunger with a salary of 80 per cent of the BUG-KUR tradesman's salary, as the pensions of their pensions are growing. Dear lawmakers, in our country, the pension calculations of the BUG-KUR-KUR tradesman's pension are based on the record of the union of tradesmen and artists' rooms as the first start date. In the retirement calculations of the BUG-KUR tradesman who started with the finance register, but later registered with the Chamber of Traders and Artists, the financial record must also be considered as the first start date. In addition, the process of employee training programs that started with the project implementation of the ISKUR is not included in the number of days in pensions. Although paying taxes, the tradesman who registers late in the shop should not be victimised during retirement, while the process of working-school training by the SSC workers should also be reflected in their pensions. In Turkey, there are also issues of equality between employers who provide production and employment. That is why the employer's workload is increasing when many nonessential documents are requested by the SGK. The provision must be based on the guarantee of a letter of collateral from the employer and the declaration. The SGK has imposed a 5% discount on the insurance premiums paid on the employer's day. However, the employer, who employs 10 people, and the employer who employs 1,000 people, are given the same discount. More reductions should be given to the employer's employer who employs more workers in order to pave the way for production and employment. The payment of workers employed through İSKUR must be paid on the day before the day or at the time by the employer in order to be paid on time. He wishes to make arrangements for all these injustices, my deepest respect and love to all of you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0078par0195	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the votes of Article 28 of Article (3) of Article (3) (g) and (g): Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Now, there are three proposals on Article 28 (4) of Article 4, which are of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The International Labor Law Bill 403 is reported to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and we propose that the declaration of "property will be issued within the two months" of the declaration "in accordance with the positive opinion issued by the Ministry of Higher Education on the positive opinion taken from the Ministry of Labor and Social Security on the positive opinion taken from the Ministry of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security." See Lightning Kadir Koçdemir Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Desire Erdem Kamil Aydın Mehmet Parsak Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to promise the motions, or I'm going to make them read their reasons. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly No. 4 of Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill (U.S.). We offer and propose that the lulu joke be removed from the article text. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Çetin Arik Hüseyin Çayak The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Baluken Sibel Yiğılalp Behçet Yıldırım Osman Baydemir Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0079par0224	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0078par0225	İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir has asked for a statement on the first motion of the same nature. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0080par0228	Mr. President, I'd like to say that I have to talk about something a little different, because, in fact, by not being at all relevant, a regulation has recently been issued by the Justice Department on July 26th, regulations on the treatment of those who are convicted of sexual immunity. In the regulation, we see that the castration process, also known in public as the castration process, is organised as a criminal sanction. This regulation says that sexual assault offenders will be given treatments that allow them to reduce or destroy sexual impulse or want without drugs or medication. Moreover, according to the regulations, such treatments can be made obligatory against one's will. It is based on Article 108 of the Law on the execution of Penalty and Security Measures, but the concept of medical treatment in the matter is not something that can be interpreted as segregation, nor has there been any court rulings about it so far. So even though castration or castration have not been decided by the law, this practice is organised as a criminal sanction by law. It is also a violation of the Constitution of the European Convention on Human Rights and the Constitution of the person who has been protected from immunity, right to life, and the ban on torture. In fact, first of all, what I want to emphasize is that this punishment is certainly far from preventing sexual assault. Because the experiences collected by women, women's organizations, feminist struggle, especially sexual assaults against adult women are not a sexual act, but a crime of violence, which is used only as an instrument. In almost all sexual assault crimes, the main reason for sexual impulses or hormonal disorders, not diseases, is feelings and actions such as anger, virility and superiority for the victim, proof of manhood, domination and aggression, and the main cause of these emotions and actions are the inequality of social roles based on male sovereignty. If we don't fight this aggression against these male-dominated roles and male domination, if we don't increase public sensitivity to sexual crimes, sexual assaults will never be possible with such methods as castration, castration. There's actually a lot the Justice Department can do instead of bringing such populist and anti-human rights punishments that will cause the error of the social problem to be solved. Women's expectations, for example, are the effective implementation of the Istanbul Convention, the removal of punishment in the judiciary, the passing of social gender education of judicial officials, that is what needs to be done. Yes, and the Turkish Psychiatry Association, according to the laws of universal ethics and Biomedicine Convention, should not be forced to perform a medical procedure that no individual approves of. Finally, I would like to point out that I am a member and that the Commission for the Protection of Child Instruction, which has a lot of expectations of the public, has no opinion at all when this regulation is being carried out, and that the Ministry of Justice has not made any consultations. If you do the new regulations, free of parliamentary control, away from these commissions, that would be a real concern for democracy. With today's agenda, coups can be prevented by more freedom and democracy, while sexual crimes can be prevented by the liberation of women and the strengthening of children. Therefore, both the state of emergency and the eunuch are oppressive, unresolved populist policies, and no solution is possible with them. My respects.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0081par0235	Thank you. It's Mersin MP Hüseyin Çanaak who wants a word on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Pineak.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0082par0239	Mr. President and my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the 28th article of the International Labor Law Bill, 403 rows. I salute the General Assembly. From what we can tell from this article, it opens the way for foreign students to receive a work permit through the Higher Education Board. What should be considered here are the qualifications of students allowed to work, the principle of reciprocity in terms of the country they come from, and the disadvantage of our citizens. Therefore, this clause must first be arranged in a way that does not create injustice to our own citizens. In addition, the principle of reciprocity is that our students must also make the necessary moves to obtain similar work abroad, because we know that it is not possible when our students study abroad, especially in European countries, want to make their own profits. Dear friends, on the night of July 15th, we've been through a great deal as a country, and unfortunately we've suffered significant losses, but there will always be risks as long as we don't discuss the environment and the reasons for such dark attempts. So, at this point, our wish is to fully implement the democratic, secular, social rule of law that we are all sworn to in this Parliament, the only solution to all our problems. Since we can't fully implement the ideal in this oath, we are socially divided, but with more democracy, we can spread the culture of harmony to every part of society; this is the only way we can overcome the problem of not being able to tolerate each other in traffic, in street, in every aspect of life, and even in Parliament. In order for democracy to perform its vital functions for a society, we must always have the same sensitivity. As a sense of democracy develops for everyone, a Turkey that doesn't spend all its energy dealing with each other will take its rightful place in the world. This dark coup attempt has caused us all deep sorrow, but it is happy that this process has united us in a common denominator that should have been in politics from the beginning, and perhaps the only gain we can take away from such a painful attempt is to get closer to each other on such days and break down the barriers between us. Only then will there be no opportunity for the inner and external forces in their desire to create an environment of impact by turning us against one another. Right now, the power of power is in the hands of the government to maintain the existing settlement that has failed the aims of the coupgers, but if there are developments in the State of Emergency that will burn the dry with age, all hope will be in vain. It is a democratic, secular and social law state, which cannot even be offered to replace it in Article 2 of our Constitution. I think we understand much better on the night of July 15th why the emphasis is vital. Together, if you compromise any of these concepts that are essential to living in peace, you leave a space available to any group that infiltrates state structures with any congregation or organizational connections. For him, we say that democracy against these coupgers is a republic with stubbornness, secularism, and stubbornness. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0083par0249	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The International Labor Law Bill 403 is reported to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and we propose that the declaration of "property will be issued within the two months" of the declaration "in accordance with the positive opinion issued by the Ministry of Higher Education on the positive opinion taken from the Ministry of Labor and Social Security on the positive opinion taken from the Ministry of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security." Altruism (Istanbul) and its companions Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0084par0257	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0083par0258	Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0085par0261	St. Turkish nation, respected lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the proposal we made on Article 4 of Article 28 of the National Movement Party Group regarding the Law Bill 403. On this occasion, I salute you all. Yes, honorable lawmakers, we all share the promise of progress since July 15th and our assessment of the consequences at this point. I made a statement last week that was right after this incident, and I made a statement of justice. I want to open this up a little bit more in this frame. Because we're looking at the full reality of what's happening right now that this is our most important issue. Now, once again, I'd like to rephrase that whoever is responsible for the July 15 coup attempt, no matter what level they're found on, must be judged fairly and punished to the fullest, there is no debate. But about the measures taken in this framework, and the decisions made after the July 15 traitorous coup attempt, all of us get dozens of calls, dozens of demands every day, and that leads us to look more closely at the practices that are being done after July 15th. Look, criminal law has its own types of participation in crime. In this sense, in relation to this most important crime committed on the night of July 15th, at which level, at which level, no matter what level, the soldier, civilian, civilian, civilian, civilian, civil, civil, free-man, free-manager, politician, whoever there is, both administrative sanctions should be carried out on these things, and they should be judged in a fair way, at the end of this trial -- and I'm telling you -- these things must be punished in the most severe way, before anyone's eyes are touched -- that our nation's lives on that treacherous night are not allowed to live on this treacherous night, and that is the most important. But if these things are left out of justice -- at a very large level of the fight on this coup attempt right now -- we have the support of our people from every political party, from every world view, and that support is the most important element of the struggle that is being fought -- so if it is not treated fairly, the right and the superstition are confused, if this social ground is lost, the struggle that is being fought loses its social ground first, and loses its efficiency over it. For this reason, it is of utmost importance that this righteous struggle does not turn out to be unfair. For this, in the struggle, in administrative savings, investigation procedures and judicial savings, there must be no separation from justice. In this framework, Mr. President has already warned all politicians since 2011 not to show up. He was right about all the warnings. I'm not going to sort these out one by one now, because our entire community and you respected lawmakers know these things, and since you haven't fulfilled those righteous warnings, we've actually come to this day a little bit. However, the same chief of staff also gave a series of legitimate warnings about the practice two days ago after July 15th. At least after this moment, it's very important that these be fulfilled, taken care of. I just want to be able to read this part that I see is important: Resuming solid evidence and documents should be essential when collective dismissals are being made in the military and civil bureaucracy. All elements of parallel state construction must be identified, analyzed in every way, and all must be brought to justice. It's as dangerous as the cruelty of a terrorist organization to seize the rights of the innocent, to victimize our innocent, innocent people. We have received intense complaints and criticism that our brothers, who know their country and their nation as saints, are also treated in the same category as the PKK terrorist group. This is not to be seen as true or just. With such dignity, administrative and legal savings should not be attached to the oppressed, nor should their rights and human dignity be violated, respectively and quickly. This demands that the High Assembly, the Veterans Assembly, be heeded, and once again, I salute you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0086par0268	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the number 4 of the 28th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The 28th Article (5) joke (a) has two motions on it, and I'm going to read it and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a policy on international labour power (e.g., which is to be added to the first joke of Article 2 of the Law on the Agency and its duties of the Ministry of Social Security, which is dated 9/1/1985 of Article 28/1/1985 of the International Labor Law (e.g. to be added to the first article of Article 2 of the Law (d) to come after the amendment (e) of the subsection of the "e" and to participate in international work on the implementation of this policy on the national and international level." Baki Simsek Kadir Koçdemir Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Desire Erdem Kamil Aydın Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Now I'm going to read the most anti-matter motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 (5) of the International Labor Law Bill (a) shall be changed in the following way. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Çetin Arık Elif Doğan Türkmen "a) The first joke of Article 2 (d) was added to the bent below to come after the bend (d) and the other dams were identified accordingly. "e) To establish policies along with other ministries of the international labour force, related vocational chambers and trade unions, and to act on the national and international level concerning the implementation of this policy," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0087par0290	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0086par0291	Adana MP Elif Doğan Türkmen demanding a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Doğan Türkmen.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0088par0294	Mr. President, the good lawmakers are the reason for the bill I've been promised, the increase of foreign and qualified labor in our country, the reduction of non-registership. However, when we look at the economic situation of our country, the position of employment, and all of that as well as unemployment, unfortunately, the only thing that this bill will do is provide capital with cheap labor. The qualified labour force goes abroad and to metropolitan areas. The science provides a qualified migration, especially in Adana. Those who cannot go abroad are unfortunately going to cities such as Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir. What we need to do in this sense is to regulate the working conditions in our country. While we can't provide our own unemployed, qualified labor force with jobs and jobs in our own cities and regions, this bill from abroad is certainly aimed at disrupting our country's business peace. Besides, I'd like to say a few words about the agenda. Because of the coup attempt we've been through before, I'd like to say that it's better for our nation, for our nation, for our country, for our Parliament. Our people are the first to prevent this coup attempt, and then our armed forces, who are not in command of the Fethullahist community, as well as our police, and I thank you all of this from here. But with the State of Emergency declared in our country following the coup attempt, we burn the age along with the fethullahist congregation and its decontamination. How? As I know very clearly, a young brother who worked at Mersin was suspended. When we discussed it, it was said to be based on the information of the State of Emergency table. All of this shows us that a witch hunt is taking place in Turkey right now. It is imperative that this witch hunt be terminated at once, essential. We're talking about unity, unity, compromise. Then, as this process is going through, opposition parties' rhetoric and their sensitivities must be taken into account. Look, on July 15th, in Turkey, there are men, privates, just people who follow orders and don't hold guns against our people, and they give up their weapons. A lynching was attempted against them that day. I believe that all our people expect that those who attempt this lynching to be brought to justice and that those who attempt this lynching must be held accountable in front of the court, just as members of the Fethullah community must be accountable. The duty of the judiciary is to identify these people and give them the necessary punishments. If this is not done, there will be a permanent outcome, and therefore I would like to make it clear on this stand. I just want to say one last thing. As part of the witch hunt in Adana, some of our journalists were taken into custody and their newspapers were now closed, and some of them were just telling the truth. I'd like to say hello to all the press members who are telling the truth, and I want to say that we're here with these people, and we're going to stand against the injustice of these people as part of a witch hunt, and we're going to continue to look for their rights here and in other places. Thank you very much. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0089par0301	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a policy on international labour power (e.g., which is to be added to the first joke of Article 2 of the Law on the Agency and its duties of the Ministry of Social Security, which is dated 9/1/1985 of Article 28/1/1985 of the International Labor Law (e.g. to be added to the first article of Article 2 of the Law (d) to come after the amendment (e) of the subsection of the "e" and to participate in international work on the implementation of this policy on the national and international level." Kamil Aydın (Erzurum) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0090par0310	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0089par0311	Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0091par0314	Mr. President, very dear MPs, I salute you all. Yes, many of our friends referred to the 15th of July until this hour, a traumatic night, a night of a low blow attempt, and yet on July 15th, we received news of the martyrs from Siirt and Haqari. In such environments, there are no other wicked souls who will stop at the ground set up by wicked spirits, and they will do their best to benefit from this system of things. After this coup attempt, there was a bad scene and... We especially remember our martyrs here with mercy, and we say, "I'm sorry for the great Turkish nation's loss, and I pray to God for the wounded, who are suffering from a great deal of treatment in hospitals right now. By the way -- our other condolence -- the great prayer of the science and wisdom of the world, which introduces Turkish history and culture to the West, and the West to Turkey, my lord, to our dear teacher, Halil Inalcık, to God's mercy to his grieving family, and to the Turkish nation who loves him, to the academics, to all. Honourable MPs, we're having a hard time. Look, sometimes when we're talking about something, we all connect the biological structure with the sociological structure. There really is a direct connection. Biological structures are similar to sociological structures, so there are forms of malignant nature in a weak surface in the human body, and there are masses. These are amputated from time to time, and sometimes they're dealt with in treatment, and they're tried to be treated through a difficult process, but they're usually amputated. Sociological structures are like that. If there's a problem in a social structure, there'll be another vicious, evil formation here. So, this is a ground weakness in this social structure that we live in on July 15th, in which this group of terrorists is trying to bleed Turkey into blood. Hopefully, of course, we'll learn a lesson from it. We've had a lot of friends present at this hour, so maybe I'll look at it from a different perspective and try to say the same thing. The lesson we must learn from this place is that instead of acting rationally, I have to say the same thing in Istanbul, Ankara, and many other cities in Turkey, when there really is a country, a flag and democracy, all the rest of the rest of us have to say the same thing, taking lessons from the heart of people who say, taking a lesson from their stance and taking an advantage of their position. It's not me anymore, it's not my political interests, it's not my preliminaries; it's our logic that we have to act in this Parliament, and we have to act in a way as a way of living here. I mean, what should we say? First, we think that in light of this country's best interests, we must overcome it before we forget that it is a social law state and act on the quest for solutions. How do we do that? You know, successful coups have succeeded in dictators. If there's persecution, one-sidedness, dictatorship, then there's a certain success. This is typical of Middle Eastern geography. What we've lived through... here, look, it happened in Egypt, it happened in Libya, it happened in Iraq, it happened in Syria, but thank God, we have a democracy tradition, we have it, we have it, the people on the street have it, and we have to have it. We have to be fair. I'd like to express how we can be fair with an anecdote, and my time is short: we must take the stand of Hazreti Ali, an ignorant man who spits in Ali's face and turns his ego to the summit, while I wait for the Lord Ali to ask for contrition under Zulfikar. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0092par0323	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the vote of Article 28 (5) of Article 5 (a): Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The 28th article (5) has a motion on me (b), which I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill (b) (e) be replaced in the form of the International Labor Directorate (e) Foreign Labor Directorate (e). Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Ater Cetin Arık Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0093par0336	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0092par0337	Mersin MP Aytuğ Thrower will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0094par0340	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a commitment to the motion we made on the 28th article of the International Labor Law (b) of Article 28 of the International Law. I salute you all. Dear friends, with this proposal, we have suggested that we change the term "International Labor Office" to the appropriate form of "Adventure of Foreign Labor." Why? Because the concept of international labor force is a vague concept, it can be drawn in every direction, it's very gaudy, it's a word that takes too much meaning. Whatever we've already suffered, we've already suffered from vague words like this, vague concepts like this, and vague things like that. To give an example: Whoever is involved in the Fethullahist terrorist organization must be punished, not indiscriminately, but indiscriminately, without any distinction. For example, the president's spokeswoman was writing in the closed-down daily "Today·sa Zaman," just like the other authors. In an environment where even the chieftains are accused of treason, where he's been convicted of treason, everyone must have their share of the investigation. So if the spokeswoman of the presidency is writing in Today (Samanda) Zaman, it should be evaluated, made clear, not obscured, just like other authors. So, whatever we've been through, we've been through some vague business. Even though other writers in todays Zamans are far from incompatible with our worldview, our political opinion, we say this because we are in favor of equal treatment for everyone. Of course, we're trying to explain to you how the wholesaler approach was wrong. So just as every officer in the Turkish Armed Forces, every soldier can't be considered a coupger today, every person working in the community media, every writer can't be considered a member of the community or a member of the Fethullahist terrorist organization. No one has the right to do that. That way, for years, we've suffered from the collective mentality of what we've suffered. Freedom of speech, fair trial is never a luxury. Of course, terrorists will be punished most severely, but they will be punished by staying within the state of law. If we don't know the rule of law, if we don't know it, then we can't be the state. Look, another wholesaler's understanding, another understanding that drives us out of the state of law and humiliates us in the public eye today is being known as the signatories. Part of the academics signed a declaration entitled "We will not be a party to this crime in Turkey." I'm not going to discuss it, for some people it's true, for some people it's wrong, but that investigation runs in its own way. Some of these signatory academics have been dismissed, some of them are being investigated. Even if our opinions that I would never interfere in that area are different, but no one has the right to evaluate these signatories as members of the Fethullahist terrorist organization and punish them with collective understanding. The signatory academics say, "We are not believers, we have fought the Fethullahists for the rest of our lives, we have fought the feeders, but no one can put us in the same sack now." And they're right. That's why we have to do everything by being a government, by being in its own way, by being in law. We talked about vague statements. Another vague expression that disturbs us is the abuse of the soul, which is a vague expression, and because of these uncertainities, our people have suffered a great deal. We've seen where the religious-looking, religious-political-commerce triangles have led our country. That's why we have to stand tall, like lions, in clear terms, when the vague words come out. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0095par0348	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 28th Amendment's (5) joke (b): those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The 28th article (5) has a motion on the (c) bendi, which I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 5 of Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill 403 is currently in session. We offer and propose that the Lu joke (c) be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Çetin Arık Ömer Fethi Gürer The first joke of Article 9 of Article 9 (h) has been changed in the form of doing the required work in the Law on the work permits of foreigners, the membership of foreign persons in unions and resolving complaints about violations of collective contract. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0096par0362	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0095par0363	Niğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0097par0366	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding the (c) of Article 28 of the International Law on Labor. I salute the High Council. When this bill came to Parliament, I listened carefully to the Minister's speech. While referring to the importance of the arrival of qualified labor force in our country, the Minister also gave examples of abroad. Of course, when you consider them that way, you can see the right, but I'm not satisfied with the obvious reason why you're making such an attempt every year when we have 488.193 engineers, architects, city planners, thousands of graduates and over 100,000 unemployed engineers and architects because you're sending our trained employees abroad, because you have to think about who's going to come to us at what price, who's trained from the outside of our country, who's going to be a qualified employee. Now, of course, since this was a draft before the July 15 coup, it didn't occur to me that when I thought about it today: Is this the way the congregation that has opened nearly 2,000 schools in 160 countries work on brain importing to Turkey? Maybe it was never thought of. Does it open up or not? Does it allow them to come to Turkey and work in institutions or in private, or not? You have to be careful with that, too. (CHP cheers) Because this process has taught us that there is a process that needs to be taken care of. We need to build our own future in our country, without the need of our own, by improving what is our own, by strengthening our children's education, by providing education in science, knowledge, technology, by providing the desired education. My dear friends, given the population of the countries mentioned by the Minister, the labor potential, the jobs there, there's no right explanation for seeking Turkey's help from abroad. Our own engineer, architect, city planner has the capacity to run these things. Now, let me tell you another example of what happened in our country in the past: we've established companies abroad that belong to our CITs. 5 OSCEs -- I know -- have companies abroad. The Court cannot inspect it, the Assembly cannot inspect it, and the review board cannot inspect it. Who gets paid from this company? What good is the company that founded the Jersey Islands abroad, and what do they do? Now after this July 15 coup, we have to look at things differently, we have to keep our values, we have to use our country's resources correctly. For example, in our country, we're going to do it close to a year on subcontractors. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I don't think we're going to get any more of those from abroad than we do of our own. Go to the developed countries today, in America, in England, you will see that many of our friends who have left Turkey and have graduated from our schools have worked in important institutions. Why did we take them there? Why didn't we create the means to employ them around here? Why couldn't we get our kids to be informed in our schools, in our universities, with our education? We need to think about this. Besides, under the circumstances of our country, we shouldn't think about problems when we're just doing the bill. And when it does come, we're all living together with the troubles that were created yesterday by those who were created from the same idea of meeting his opposition in common with his power. Look, we've changed the law of the Supreme Court three times in five years. So it would be helpful for us to explore every law, every bill, a little bit more from now on. Let's look at our own resources, look at our own values, and see what we can come up with. Let's take care of our RD studies, re-create our patents, our people in our country, create horizons, enrich our values. We can do and do better in all things, in all things, in all things, in all things, and we have this knowledge and we have this ability, let's trust in ourselves, let's believe in it. There's no happiness in bringing in cheap labor from the outside. If you don't pay the right amount of hard work, I mean, if you don't repay the employee's hard work, that money doesn't pay. I mean, there are examples of this, there are experiences. I say in the final words that in our country every mortal will taste death. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Instead of going to the graveyards, he should hang them on the wall of places where they do business. I think it's necessary for the general managers, the contractors, the people who do the work to read it every day. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0098par0380	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the vote of Article 28 (5) of Article 5 (c): Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion, I'm reading it, I'm processing it, I'm reading it, I'm doing it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The "International Labor Office General Directorate" of Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill 403 is to be changed into "General Directorate of Labor" "b) "b) to establish policy with other ministries, relevant vocational rooms, and trade unions, and to act on the national and international level concerning the implementation of this policy." changed to form, "j" is to remove the subdivision from the draft text and "l" is the subdivision "training level, occupational experience, science and technology, which has come forward and has been adopted by internationally valid publications, which are living abroad, taking action to bring qualified human power to our country." We offer and offer to change it into form. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0099par0395	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0098par0396	Zonguldak MP Ünal Demirtaş will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Demirtaş.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0100par0399	Thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Our country is going through a rough patch. On the evening of July 15th, I curse once again the coup attempt on the people's will to the House. Those who attempt a coup must be punished most severely within the law. If there's a crime, it shouldn't go unpunished. However, last week, you passed the State of Emergency Law -- which the coupgers of September 12th put into the Constitution. Unfortunately, with the State of Emergency Law, the Parliament, the people's will, democracy, has been shut down, unfortunately, and the universal laws of law have been suspended; that has been extremely wrong to us. Dear lawmakers, many hearings and complaints are being made concerning the violation of basic human rights regarding those attempting to commit a coup, torture and abuse. It is said that the straw is mixed with the straw, and that the age is burned as well as the dry. Investigators of the coup attempt must be carried out within universal law rules, otherwise we are no different than coupgers. The process after the coup attempt should not be transformed into new segregation in society, a ground where the seeds of new hatred and hostility are planted. The state should not hold grudges, the state should not hold grudges. I repeat once again about those who attempt a coup, the most severe punishment in the law. However, the basic human rights of these individuals should not be violated, nor should age burn near the dry, nor should the stem be mixed with straw, nor should the process be transformed into a witch hunt. Dear lawmakers, we must all learn from this coup attempt. In the world of 2016, where science and technology are highly developed, where democratic standards and the quality of democracy are at the highest levels, the reasons leading Turkey to the coup attempt must also be considered and determined. Once again, the standard of our democracy must be raised to the highest standard so that there will be no coup in our country. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, we must strengthen Parliament, strengthen the principle of separation of forces, strengthen freedom of the press, strengthen the state of law, strengthen the culture of reconciliation that reduces polarisation in society, maintain the achievements of the republic, in public, not of my community, but of my community's integrity and skill, we must get officers and bureaucrats according to objective criteria. Turkey can no longer move on with a third-rate democracy, nor should it. Dear lawmakers, as one of the main objectives of this law, it is stated that qualified labor force has been introduced to Turkey. If we need an outside-class labor force, it means we can't raise the qualified labor force we need, or even if we do raise qualified people, that means we can't keep our qualified people in our own country, which means they'd rather go to work in another country. In both cases, it is clear that the AKP ruling the country for 14 years has been wrong. It turns out that there are severe problems in the ongoing puzzle system and working life and that these problems cannot be solved by 14 years of AKP power. Unfortunately, at the end of 14 years, what we've come to is that we have to import qualified labor from the outside. Dear lawmakers, in particular in recent years, a wrong foreign policy has been applied. One of the bills for this wrong foreign policy is that we become a refugee country. We became a country where refugees use it as a transit route and where asylum seekers aim to settle. This has also had a negative impact on the labour market in Turkey, and the balance of labour markets in our country has been shaken. Now with this bill, these asylum seekers are facilitated to settle and find employment in Turkey. As a result of this facilitation, our country will become a country where asylum seekers target more. Off the record, we'll have to find jobs for immigrants instead of solving the problems of six million unemployed people in our country. As a result of our reconciliation with power, however, some of the difficulties of the law have been eliminated. My sincerest love and respect to all of you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0101par0410	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 28th Amendment's (5) fifth joke: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The Minister has a request for word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0102par0416	I have an obligation to present information to our MP and to the public. Our dear congressman, Mr. Aytug Horseman, has just expressed himself, but it's based on the news in a newspaper today. I just want to say that we're going through a very important period. Even if I don't express it, that's the name of this period in history. In particular, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has hosted an important position of democracy with all MPs and all party groups during this period. This is also an important reference on behalf of our MPs who will follow us next semester, and I'd like to state that as well. An assessment of both lawmakers and law enforcement members related to the Turkish Armed Forces and the actual service increase related to the MIT members has been issued in 2013 today: The MPs will also receive retirement on vacations. This sort of news is presented in Turkey's Turkish Parliament and lawmakers in the period of Turkey to reduce their activities, especially at times sometimes in critical times. I want to make it clear to the High Council that this is something that has nothing to do with today. When the Social Security Act was renewed in 2008, these operational service increases were revised, but on January 10, 2013, with Law 6385, a full actual service increase was established, and a 90-day actual service increase was considered for our lawmakers a year. Immediately after that, in 2013, a general order for the implementation of this was published, a regulation was published in 2014, and that order and regulations should have been integrated into a regulation that should actually complete itself again. So we had to sort out some of the clauses in the general order, put them in it, and eliminate some of the shortcomings that could have arisen in this form of practice. A preparation was made last February and March, and in April this regulation was sent to be published in the Official Gazette. With this regulation, no professional group, including the MP, including the TSK, no professional group, including the MIT, has been given any rights outside the law, nor is such a thing possible, because neither regulations nor regulations can define what the law does not give. Today's news is just a counter-action that has been explained in harmony with the law -- my own interpretation -- which has recently been revealed to be the best use of the representation that lawmakers have given them under the roof of this House. I'd like to express that the person of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not to be hurt, that our MPs are not to be hurt about this, that other members of the profession are not to be hurt about this, because this Parliament knows best that any rights that this law does not give can be made known in any general terms. I wanted to rephrase that as a necessity. Thank you again, Mr. President, for providing such an opportunity.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0103par0423	Thank you. There's a motion on the fifth joke of Article 28 (d) and (e)bents of Article 28 that I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 28th article of the International Labor Law Bill (d) of the 403 rows in question be replaced by the International Labor Force General Director (also referred to in the form of the (e) Chief Executive Director of Foreign Labor, (e) in the form of the (e) director of Foreign Work Force, (i.e. the last International Labor Force General Directorate). Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Çetin Arik Özkan Yimım Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0104par0437	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0103par0438	Minister Özkan Yım will speak on the motion. Dear Yýmým, here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0105par0441	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the very precious Court, the Minister, our dear colleagues, and the citizens of the Republic of Turkey who follow us with my deepest respect and feelings. Yes, first, on July 15th, we condemn those who did all kinds of blows from here again, and I pray for God's mercy on those who died because of this blow, and for those who were injured, and for immediate healing. I'd certainly like to re-indict those who did this blow, and especially after the coup, and especially in this necessary selection, I would like to express to our valued prosecutors here that the criminals should be judged with fairness and not be burned by the dry. Now, 403. I have received a pledge in Article 28 of the Law (5). After meeting with our esteemed presidents of the Chamber of Architects, I would like to address you in particular, Mr. Secretary. You know, when both our architectural candidates and our engineers who have studied at universities in the Republic of Turkey finish school, unfortunately, they don't have that right in Europe because they don't have an equal. For this reason, I would like to point out that architects and engineers from Europe have direct equivalents to schools from which they come, and that they have won equality in Turkey, no matter what country they come from all over the world. I want to underline that this is not a very accurate method, that the people who come have to be controlled in some way, that their diploma, school, can do their job correctly, that they have the capacity to contribute to our fellow architects and engineers in the Republic of Turkey -- both by our presidents and by myself. In particular, there are now around 44,000 architects in China, half of which are unemployed. Well, Mr. Secretary, after this law comes out, you can imagine what the market will look like when about 5,000 or 10,000 architects from China arrive. I would especially like to point out that our current architects, our engineers, can face unfair competition because architects from China can work at a much lower cost. The sensitivity here... in order to ensure that the rights of our architects and engineers who have graduated from our universities in Turkey... and are not being fed, I say, by all the architects, engineers... should be given this right to those who are capable of having a certain control and, as I say, a phase... to contribute to our fellow architects and engineers in Turkey. I'm stressing from here specifically that you shouldn't turn architects into Chinese markets in Turkey. In the same way, we do not know whether or not our Syrian guests, who are currently in Turkey, have to be controlled from what university they are in, whether they are an engineer or an architect, because we do not know if they can declare a degree, so we specifically state our sensitivity here. I would like to point out that with these purchases of unemployment at the end of 2015 in Turkey, at the end of 2015, I am particularly concerned that, especially after this law, Syrian architects, engineers, and engineers from China, the inferior architects and engineers can increase the unemployment rate in our country. In the interest of the protection of Turkish architects and engineers, I would like to ask you specifically for the necessary sensitivity. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0106par0449	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the verses of Article 28 (5) and (e): those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 28th article (6), (7) and (8) which I will read and process.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0107par0453	Mr. President, I'd like to say a few words about this place.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0106par0454	The Minister has a request for word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0107par0456	Again, I'd like to pass on to the Council an assessment that our friends have just presented in a few speeches. Now there's a concern that I understand that from the moment this law comes out in Turkey, architects in all countries, including China, will flock to Turkey and engineers will flock. Our esteemed MPs are currently no improvement in this matter outside Law 4817, which is one. Two, there is no more facilitating situation than Law 4817, except for one or two bureaucratic corrections. Three, in 2015, the total is 117, including big projects... look, when we talk about it, we're talking about thousands, tens of thousands, 100,000 each. It's our business, it's ours. 117 engineers were only allowed to work in Turkey in 2015. So don't think about something like this just because we're functional, so every engineer who comes in will get permission in Turkey. There are so many harsh conditions for this, and there are conditions that are so essential that it's so limited, including its own price policy, and it's our constraint, and when this law is being established, when the architecture is being built, it's completely, completely, our own employment market, our own internal market, and our own internal employees are being made without being ignored. I'm just going to give you this number because I think it's very important to you, because I mentioned 117 engineers on the North Marmara Highway. Look, why is this law coming out and why is it being created? There are 372 local engineers working on the North Marmara Highway, alien 61. What was the total number of foreign engineers working in Turkey? 117. And again, there are 434 engineers working on the Gebze-Izmir Highway, local, 46 foreign engineers working. My statement is one: for large projects -- which we need a correlation here -- especially for international technologies to be transferred to Turkey, and they need to be adapted with our own employees. Two: International direct investments need to be more comfortable in Turkey -- with workers. I'm specifically saying that there are technologies that need to be transferred from there to there. It's our sons, who have graduated in Turkey so much that this number can be raised so much that it's our basic duty together to create jobs for them, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and our governments. I'm trying very hard not to think about these numbers in a way that can make it a job problem for the community. And again, I would like to rephrase that there is no such thing as a very big process that is different from 4817, which is completely different from 4817, which is different from what 4817 puts into the Ministry of Labor, which I'm going to express in my next talks. You know, the public may have a sense of whether, as soon as we remove this from China, and from other countries of the world, there will be an influx of architects or engineers? I'd like to rephrase that that's out of the question.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0108par0462	Isn't it more accurate to have this project-based leave taken, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0107par0463	It is.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0108par0464	But look, with this law, any architect from China, an engineer...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0109par0465	Friends, thank you, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Yim...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0107par0466	I try to make it clear that 4817 will do so.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0109par0467	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0110par0468	So let's protect our sensitivity, our own architects there, Mr. Secretary, and talk about the same thing.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0109par0469	We'll pick up where we left off. I'm reading two motions on 28th Articles 6th, 7th, 8th and 8th. Since the last motion I'm going to read is the most contrary, I'm going to process it first. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 28 (6) and (8) of the International Labor Law Bill 403 in question. We offer and offer to change the Lu jokes in the following way. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Cetin Arık Sibel Özdemir "The Law on the Work Permissions of Strangers 4817" in Article 12 of Article No. 3218, dated 6/6/1985 and in Article 12 of the Free Zones Act No. 3218, was changed into the "International Labor Force Act." The first meme (g) of Article 3 (g) of Article No. 5/6/2003 and Article 4875 of Foreign Direct Investments (g) was changed in the following way, and the second and third bends were removed from effect. The foreign national key staff, which will be employed in companies, branches and institutions established under this Law, will be granted a work permit by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 of Law Bill 403 (7) be removed from the text of its 7th joke. İdris Bauken Behcet Yıldırım Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0111par0491	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0109par0492	Adıyaman MP Behçet Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0112par0495	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on Article 28 of the 403th Amendment. I salute the General Assembly. This is where I greet the discreet people of Turkey who have really been on a democracy watch since July 15th. I'm also celebrating all the areas that are sensitive -- which do not allow provocative actions -- which have been provocative in one or two counties. Democracy is a matter of culture; it is not a matter of power, of vote. If we explain this with force, if we reduce it to power, impact mechanics will kick in. The quickest way to break this mechanics is to make democracy work with all its institutions. Everyone knows that coups and coups are bad. There's not enough time to tell them what they did wrong here. But what we really need is, how did we get to this coup? How did these coupgers get so comfortable in these institutions? Why is this country suffering from periodic intervals of blows and coup attempts? The logic of the coup is not just a case of a few people in institutions going crazy. Therefore, the impact phenomenon is not a mechanism that can be overcome or overcome by just keeping watch on the street without an assessment of the cause-effect relationship. If we don't discuss the causes and consequences of these coups freely, if we don't make the search for solutions vital through the culture of compromise together, I'm sorry to say, this impact mechanics would win tomorrow if it weren't for today. Therefore, I have no fault, no flaw, especially political power; I am the victim of the coup. This coup is a blessing from God. I would like to point out that I do not think that the mechanics of this coup will be overcome. If you don't take the life of a missing person in the country seriously, and every day you're asked, "Where is Hurşit Külter?" When asked about this person's life, the country's rulers don't need to answer, the culture of the coup develops. I have public support, I have law enforcement support; I have soldiers, I have police. I destroy cities, cities in the name of counterterrorism, with tanks, with cannons. If you say, coup culture develops. Even if they go outside the law, I will make the people who burn here, the wrecks untouchable, and remove the immunity of the representatives of the political party, who have the support of the people behind them. If you say so, the culture of the coup develops. If you arrest academics, journalists, or create an appropriate political atmosphere for expressing their opinions, the impact culture will develop there. If you hire a subcontractor who works in a hospital from the highest undersecretary of public institutions with party references, even if you don't risk merit, justice and rights. If you forget that you are in power from a car crash in the country to bombs that explode in cities, and you act on victimism, and instead of a resignation mechanism, we've been tricked. If you act with a mechanism, the impact culture will develop. As a matter of fact, we can think of thousands of examples like this. The antidote to the blow is peace. What we call peace comes not by fighting, not by fighting, but by talking. To talk, you have to have a culture of compromise. Here, what we're talking about is that we're allowed to sit at a table with the most inopportune, different minds. We can draw the quality of investments in conflicting environments with periodic intervals of impacts, coup attempts. If you want to attract qualified labor -- before these technical laws -- I believe a democratic, peaceful environment should be created. Article 28 is a total attempt to exclude TMMOB. The institutional exclusion of TMMOB is an exclusion of engineers, architects and city planners, which are now approaching 1 million with public employees. It is neither public nor professional use to put professional people who graduate from the engineering and architecture schools of 30,000 graduates each year in front of unfair competition. It is not the duty of this House to impose law against the citizen of the country. Power should not be afraid of professional rooms, it should take them with it, not against it. Again, TTB (TTMOB), such as TMMOB, has a world of problems. I say this law against the health workers must be reviewed, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0113par0511	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The International Labor Law Bill No. 403, which is currently in session, is the 28th Article (6) and (8) of the International Law on Labor. We offer and offer to change the Lu jokes in the following way. Cetin Ağık (Kayseri) and his friends "The Law on the Work Permissions of Strangers No. 4817," in Article 12 of Article 3218, dated 6/6/1985 and in Article 12 of the Free Zones Act 3218, has been changed to "International Labor Force Law." The first meme of Article 3 (g) of Article No. 5/6/2003 and Article 3 of Article 4875 of Foreign Direct Investments (g) was changed in the following way and the second and third bends were removed from effect. The foreign national key staff, which will be employed in companies, branches and institutions established under this Law, will be granted a work permit by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0114par0524	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0113par0525	İstanbul MP Gibraltar Özdemir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0115par0528	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill 403, which is being discussed, and I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, I once again curse the construction of a congregation in state institutions such as the judiciary, police, education, and especially within our Turkish Armed Forces, and their collaborators' July 15 coup attempt on our parliamentary democracy from this stand. It is with respect and gratitude that I remember our citizens, who have suffered a blow and have lost their lives, and ask God for mercy and immediate healing for our wounded citizens. As the main opposition party, I would like to say once again that we will continue to make every effort to protect and strengthen the republic's fundamental institutions, our parliamentary system and our democracy. Dear lawmakers, in the section of the International Labor Law Bill, which we're discussing, in the section of the General Reason, it is stated that because foreigners who came to our country by legal means in the early 2000s were more interested in low-qualified jobs in the secondary labour markets, it is therefore intended to attract qualified labor forces to our country. I would like to take this opportunity to emphasize once again that the main issue for our economy is not that our country should be given an externally qualified labour force as the basis for this law, but that our country's policies of development, education and employment should be reassessed in a holistic approach. Turkey must leave its uncertainty as soon as possible, along with the July 15 coup attempt and the state of emergency after which it has been declared. Otherwise, our country's weak and low economic indicators will only get worse. It has already been debated whether or not our country, one of the 20 largest economies in the world, will be able to protect its place, face an economic crisis and uncertainty. Dear lawmakers, we have two window of opportunity today to get out of the uncertainty of our country. The first is our 70 percent female population, which is not included in employment. In order to revive the economy and enrich Turkey, this population must be brought into the economy. Second, unfortunately, Turkey has become one of the fastest aging countries in the world, and Turkey's population will never find 100 million and will complete this century with 90 million. It is estimated that by 2023, our productive population will increase, and after that, it will fall. Dear lawmakers, women's participation in the labour force today is at 32 per cent. According to the 2015 workforce survey, unemployment rate for women aged 15 to 19 is 18 per cent; employment rate for women aged 15 to 24 is 22 per cent. In April 2015-2016, there was a decline in the number of male unemployed, while the number of women unemployed was reversed. During this period, the number of women unemployed rose from 1 million to 58,000 to 1 million to 76,000. Turkey is recently involved in women's employment among the 28 countries that are members of the European Union. So our country is the country with the highest gender difference in employment rate in Europe. Similarly, among the OECD countries, Turkey is at the latest in women's employment, and there is a very remarkable data in the recent report, published by the International Fund for Money IMF, titled "Influences on Foreign Affairs and Eastern Europe." Turkey appears to be ranked last between 16 per cent of the men and women's cliff in the labour market and the countries of the European Union. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's way of overcoming the mediocrity of economic and human development is not an ideological concern, but a permanent education reform that predates the tomorrows of the country, women and young people. Once again, I would like to address the government, the ruling party and opposition parties: let's start to talk, negotiate, compromise, and build together about education, education and employment reform, which offers equal opportunities for everyone, qualified, scientific, secular, and equal opportunities. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0116par0542	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 28th and 7th and (8) of the 28th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a joint motion on the 28th article (9) and I'm going to read it and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill (9) issue (9) be removed from the draft text. İlknur İnceöz Mehmet Doğan Kubat Aytuğ Atcı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor İdris Bauken Does the commission agree with the joint motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0117par0554	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit02spe0116par0555	I'm reading the reason: As the Ministry of Health is responsible for the work of health personnel in public institutions, the clause has been removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is unanimous. Members of parliament, this joke has been removed from the commission text in accordance with the motion adopted on Article 28 (9) and Article 9 (9). To avoid any confusion, we continue to discuss the current materials of the commission text. Article numbers will also be identified during the writing of the law. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0116par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 120th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 403 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. There are two motions on Article 28 concerning the 10th article, which is the same thing, and I'm going to read it and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the tenth joke (b) of Article 28 of the current 403 rows be removed from the text of matter and that other dams be identified accordingly. İdris Bauken Behcet Yıldırım Osman Baydemir Garo Paylan Mahmoud Celadet Berdan Özturk The signatures of the other motion are: Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0118par0019	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0116par0020	Istanbul MP Yakup Akkaya has asked for a statement on the first motion of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0119par0023	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, dear bureaucrats of the Ministry of Labor, valued members of the House, I salute you all. We continue to discuss the International Labor Law Bill. Essentially, one of the most important provisions of this bill, the turquoise card and some of its regulations, does not just regulate the free movement of labor here, but is a policy aimed at attracting foreign capital to Turkey. It is especially important that the capital comes to Turkey, but the type of capital needs to be determined. So there's a capital that will contribute to Turkey, to produce, to create jobs, and if it's coming to Turkey, it's good for it, but there's always a question mark on our heads. So the money transfers in our country that would provide employment, technologically and strategically move the country forward should be withdrawn, while the money transfers aimed at making money from money were also assessed by this bill. With this bill, the arrival of a Rant supplier capital opens the way. In the same way, the response to the arrival of the origin, the source of the unknown capital, even the encouragement to the process that we live in -- for example, when we pay attention to the criticism that the citizenship given to Reza Sarraf has brought to our country, it seems that the purpose of this legal arrangement actually exceeds. Dear MPs, the 48, 49 and 50th articles of our Constitution have basically organised the rights and freedoms to work. The work is everyone's rights and homework. The Constitution says so. An equal right to work with a citizen and a stranger. Giving a work permit to strangers does not mean full public rights. So the right to work and the right to citizenship are very different, so it should be evaluated accordingly. When it comes to this, foreigners are given different, more privileged possibilities than Turkish citizens, which is clearly against our Constitution. The clear meaning of this amendment is: Turkish citizenship Act 5901 states that Turkish citizenship is granted in two ways. The first is through birth and blood, and the second is the establishment of Turkish citizenship by the authority's decision. There are certain conditions for this second state. These are clearly listed in Article 11 of the relevant law. In addition to a number of conditions for applying for Turkish citizenship, Turkey is also required to reside in Turkey for five years and a condition for speaking Turkish. In our law, as an exception to this situation, only one of these conditions is determined that it is possible to be a citizen by the decision of the Council of Ministers, not to have an obstacle to national security and public order. It is also called the right of citizenship, which is defined by the 12th article. Now, those who will be granted citizenship by the International Labor Law bill, which comes before us, are expanded by exceptional individuals. The bill says those who have received a residence permit according to Article (1) (j) of Article 31 of the International Protection Act (Islamic Protection Law). Who are they? We look at it, we go to the law, we look at the law; there is no subtitle of Article 31 of the relevant law (1) (j). So you're trying to add a rule of law to an arrangement that doesn't exist. We asked Mr. Minister in the Commission, and Mr. Secretary said, "We're adding the law (j) to the number 6458 (j) with the number of the third joke (c). My fellow lawmakers, this is clearly against law-making techniques. There can't be an arrangement that refers to me that I don't have. Get over it, and it was me, what does it say? The main purpose of this law was to make arrangements for qualified foreigners to work in Turkey, as well as for their foreign wife, hers and hers, who are not adults or addicts. Here, with this arrangement, we see that it's out of the question. If you have any money here, I'll give you citizenship without waiting. It's called. That is not the proper meaning of the law. Of course, since our time is limited to five minutes... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We, the Republican People's Party, have very serious concerns about this clause, and so I would like to submit it once again to the approval of lawmakers. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0120par0035	Thank you. Ağrı MP Berdan Ozturk will speak on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0121par0039	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I begin my remarks, I wish the families of our Rojava citizens, whose lives have been lost because of the vile attack by ISIS gangs in Makmişlı, to their families, to the wounded, to their families, to the immediate healing. Dear lawmakers, we're going through a historical fork in the road. Every fork in the road also offers us historical opportunities. What's important is that by putting these opportunities on a democratic basis, we use these opportunities to solve the problems that have become gangrene with justice, equality and freedom. The July 15 coup attempt has now brought the country to a crossroads. There are two paths ahead: either we will build a full democratic Turkey around the principles of universal law or we will spend the next year in the home of an authoritarian order in conflict and chaos. While history has given us politicians the opportunity to rewrite history, we are witnessing this opportunity's efforts to transform it into a government relationship around party interests. I'd like to share a small example of this with you. A few days before that, there was a press release that our HDP district organization wanted to make. If you're announcing the press to our co-chairs called to the police, do it inside your party building. As soon as you are outside, we will intervene without warning. The warning has been given, so the press has been prevented. When asked, it was said that it was on the governor's orders. But in the same place, the Ağrı district agency, both our AKP-li deputy friend, is doing this press release at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, wherever they want. If we continue with this understanding, we will miss this historic opportunity. Dear friends, as far as we're concerned, it's obvious what's going to happen. Starting a full democratization move is the only way to win this country. It may be the first step in this democratisation move, where the blockades continue, with the removal of the blockades in Şırnak and Nusaybin, and restituting all the losses of the people without any curfews. The release of all of our friends from political genocide operations to prisons and the extradition of our deposed mayors will also be a step that supports the first step and reduces tension. Again, the immediate end of the isolation and isolation policies on prisons and implementation of international standards will also provide a relative relief in society. And the most important, critical ring of the process, the Imranian, must be shown the political will and determination to restore the negotiating table they have knocked over, along with Mr. Ocalan, to implement the Dolmabahçe agreement. We want to remind you now that by excluding Kurds and other different parts of society, there will be a system that will allow a system of law that will be re-created by ignoring, by ignoring, by feeding coup mechanics, to reproduce. In a common country, such a need for a new social contract, where everyone will live equally, and yet a restructuring of Kurds and other social communities on rejection will cause us to face bigger problems than the problems in the past. It would be insulting and unfair to the people of Turkey to choose a way in the opposite direction at a time when it is possible for all citizens in the country to feel safe, to build a democratic republic together, where everyone can join in their own identity and color. We know that it's always possible to get out of this chaos, based on democracy and the rule of law, against the danger of public chaos creating despair in the masses. It's an honor and an honor for all of us to come out of the most desperate times with hope. History is testing us again. It is time for freedom to build a democratic republic at dawn, building hope against all hopelessness, powering by our historical right to all blind oppression. This Parliament must be a prerequisite for the solution to problems that have become gangrene by taking on a founding role. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0122par0047	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit to your votes the 28th Amendment's 10th joke: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The 28th Article (11) joke (a) has two motions on it, and I read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 28 (11) of the International Labor Law Bill 403 in question. We provide and propose that the lu joke (a) be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş "a) Added to the first joke of Article 3 of Article 3, "y) the institution of the agent of authority: the institution of the institution, which is established under the regulation of its qualifications and task framework and is authorized by the General Administration under the Public Requirement Act 4734," Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the article "A" (a) of the 28th article of the current Law Proposal of 403 rows. İdris Bauken Behcet Yıldırım Garo Paylan Osman Baydemir Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with my latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0123par0067	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0122par0068	Şanlıurfa MP Osman Baydemir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0124par0071	Mr. President, the law that we have discussed -- no doubt, after the law -- will seriously affect the problem of business, employment and unemployment in society. And with that dignity, it's vitally important to the working perspective. To put it bluntly, the exploitation of labor will open new doors. When we review this law, one of the criticisms that we will bring first is that it was brought to the General Assembly without being discussed in the EU Compliance Commission. Another issue is that at this time, for example, there are at least 400,000 refugees, refugees, brothers and sisters. And with the legislature of this law, the problem of employment in Urbana will continue to be categorized. It will become heavy and continue to carry on the burden that had been placed on the back of Urbana. With all of that, we're looking at a much more dire picture that we should be discussing right now. We were faced with a major disease, a major attack, a coup and a junta attack. If the coup and junta had succeeded, the country would probably now have martial law. However, the alternative to martial law, the junta, is not the state of emergency, but the extraordinary regime; and only with junta, junta can fight democracy. If the junta had ruled, there would be torture and torture in many places in Turkey right now. Unfortunately, I'm sorry to say that for almost a year, we've been witnessing a lot of complaints, especially in our city of Urbana, much different from Turkey's overall. Almost every day we face torture, a complaint of torture, an incident of torture, and an application. Finally, our citizens Mehmet Ali Genç and Metin Köse have been detained on suspicion. In order, first the Palace Police Department, then the Public Branch, then five days later, Mr. Secretary, the complaints that they've been subjected to severe torture are coming to us right now. I'm going to have to pass on to the General Assembly the lawyers I've just interviewed in the General Assembly. No doubt, torture is a crime against the human family. So far, they've sent us complaints that they've been subjected to severe tortures in custody, threatening to kill in custody, with what they call an execution. Mr. Secretary, we've already submitted motions for questions regarding torture allegations in Urban custody, and unfortunately, no effective effort has been made; it's my particular request from the Minister. There is no doubt that there may be an indictment, there may be an investigation into the case -- I'm saying with my criminal identity -- it may be criminal and guilty, but the way to fight crime and criminal can never be tortured or tortured to the floor. Torture is a crime against the human family. In both the Constitution and our internal law and the European Convention on Human Rights, which we have sided with, torture is also a crime that does not expire. With that dignity, we ask you to intervene immediately. A 30-day detention period in the state of emergency will allow some to take responsibility for the situation. And once again, with that dignity, the only way to fight the coup regime is to fight democracy, but only to claim right and freedom. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to make another point. As of now, we have been approached by a complaint that a member of the Ministry of Ankara has been suspended. I'm very clear, Mr. Secretary, that the person in question is not a member of any political party, not even of any union. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] His only crime is to be Kurdish, I assure you. I'll get his information to your witness. Now, with all this action, Parliament must once again be involved in the process, once again reveal the will of Parliament. Torture is a crime of humanity, and those who commit torture must one day be judged, as the coupgers are tried. Human dignity will overcome torture. My deepest regards.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0125par0083	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill (11) of 403 rankings currently in session. We provide and propose that the lu joke (a) be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Cetin Ağık (Kayseri) and his friends "The first joke of Article III of Article III is added to the following, the institution of the agent: the institution of authority: the institution established by the regulation of its qualifications and task framework, and the institution or organisation authorized by the General Manager under the agreement of the Public Requirement Act 4734," he added. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0126par0093	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0125par0094	Kayseri MP Çetin Arık will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Arik.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0127par0097	Mr. President, I stand before you and our esteemed people once again to share my views on the International Labor Law Bill. I salute the General Assembly. As I tried to put it in my previous speech, this bill shows that foreigners are not only considered working permits, but also considered citizenship. We don't say no stranger should be allowed to work, no stranger should be granted citizenship. Of course, when it comes to the very special needs of our country's labour market, it can be granted a work permit. In fact, people with very special qualifications can also be granted citizenship, and we have no objection. However, they need to have a written and public standard. The issue of citizenship for Syrian citizens, who have been on the agenda recently, is also relevant. I see the work permit issue as the first step in the project of giving citizenship to refugees. It is my duty to express the things that I find objectionable in this matter on behalf of our nation from the council bench. Needless to say, there's a refugee problem in our country. The former Prime Minister, who you sent, led the parallel team of consultants in the newly discovered men of genius, has deflected foreign policy from our country's traditional course. It was a huge mistake to deviate from our traditional foreign policy, which is not to interfere with Arab domestic affairs. Here, the refugee problem we face is the result of these mistakes. It's also a virtue to return from error. I hope the new government now sees this mistake and understands that it must be returned to the Ataturcian foreign policy doctrine, based on its ancient tradition. But how do we remove the debris left behind? Are we going to do this by giving citizenship to these people who are taking refuge in our country? Do we correct the error by mistake, or do we allow refugees to return to their country with peace? Although I don't see our common history of Syrian brothers as the other ones, I find the policy to give refugees mass citizenship very wrong. This will increase the unemployment problem that exists in our country in the mid-term. If this policy is implemented, the quality of our people's lives will deteriorate. On the other hand, how do people who want to be granted citizenship have a sense of belonging to our country? How right would it be for people who don't have a sense of belonging to the country, a flag and a homeland to be accepted into citizenship? Will the people who want to be granted citizenship swear allegiance to the country and the flag, as they did in America? Will Germany, as in Germany, have the obligation to speak the official language? Will they have to bring in large amounts of capital or bring in a university degree with international equality? All of these are things that need to be explained in this process, and the standards are legally written and transparent. We can all see how the members of the Kurdistan Workers' Party and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) who have no sense of belonging to our country continue to harm and harm our country in an organized manner. We have to be a united nation, one nation, as our republic was intended during its founding time. That's what we have to waste our time and work to get rid of the trouble we're in, but instead, we're talking about giving homes to the Syrians from TOKI. If a dwelling is to be given from the TOKI, let's give it to the families of the martyrs, the families of the veterans, and we'll support it. A piece of real estate above the land they were martyred for is the right of widows and orphans and veterans left behind by all our martyrs, as lawful as their mother's milk. Congressmans, this is where I complete my words, and I salute your committee, and thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0128par0109	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 28th Article (11) (a): Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The 28th Article (11) joke (b) has two motions on the bendi (b), and since the last motion I will read is the most contrary, I will process it, and I will make it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill (11) of 403 rankings currently in session. We offer and propose that the Lu joke (b) be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Çetin Arık Şenal Sarıhan The 4th joke of Article 11 has been changed as follows, and the following joke has been added to Article 21 as follows. The visas are given by consulates, and in exceptional cases by governorates, where the border gates are bound. The appeals to the consulates will be finalized within 90 days. Visa applications can also be made by the authority agency. The application for a residence permit can also be applied for by the authority agency. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 of Law Proposal 403 (b) be removed from the text of substance. İdris Bauken Behcet Yıldırım Garo Paylan Osman Baydemir Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0129par0132	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0128par0133	Bitlis MP Mahmut Caladet Gaydalı demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0130par0136	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on my party and my group on Article 28 of the International Labor Law, 403 rows in session, and I salute you and the public. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I condemn and condemn the coup attempt on the evening of July 15th, aimed at the sovereignty of the nation. First of all, this attack has been blocked by the decisive stance of the public and the common stance of political parties, media and NGOs. To those who lost their lives in the coup attempt, I ask God's mercy, his condolences to his relatives, and urgent healings to the wounded. This coup attempt, with all its nudity, has once again revealed our need for democracy. In this country, we can ensure that the coups and similar situations never happen again, we can achieve our inner and external peace, allocate an environment where all differences live freely, strengthen our democracy, and ensure the rule of law. I'm afraid it's clear that any other procedure will lead to greater disasters for our country and for us. All criminal and administrative investigations must be carried out in accordance with the principles of justice and law as they should be, while the current arrests, detention, suspension, suspension and so on are being carried out. Dear MPs, regarding the International Labor Law, we have to make it clear that although the bill was said to have received the opinion of NGOs, it was accepted as it came from the government without any suggestions or criticism. Although this attitude later changes during the talks, the same problem continues in all kinds of work as a generality, and the government has blocked all criticism and suggestions. The goal is not to disqualify the work done by its simple size, but rather to create a more qualified and more inclusive law by offering our ideas and contributions. In these days, we need democracy, a pluralist participation in law enforcement and any criticism must be heard. We were the country of origin, the country of transition, and then the target country... I couldn't understand how it was targeted. We've joined a group of countries looking for ground to work, the attraction of qualified labor, and I don't agree with any of that. Of course, experience doesn't have a school. Experience is made by experience. And as an engineer working in multinational corporations, I'd like to share some of my experiences with you. When I was working in Turkey, they tried to give me two British engineers -- one was a sailor engineer who had never even seen a university; the other was an English electrical engineer who had been paid for two years in unemployment. I didn't agree to work with either of them. Later, in the Sultanate of Oman, we met the engineer, the Englishman. The engineer, who was an English engineer, was just a mechanic in a camp responsible for the sewage treatment systems, and he already accepted it there, and he said, "You're where you need to be, I'm where I need to be." I used to work there as a project manager. The price policy of multinational corporations is also interesting, and I'll tell you that foreigners always get paid twice as much as the locals, and they use a salary scale according to their nationality. When I worked at Oman, my team included American, British, Dutch, Australian, Pakistani engineers. I used to work as the boss of this group. The American engineer was only paid 10 percent more than me because he was American, and the Pakistani was paid half our salary. I can tell you that the best quality of the team was the Pakistani mechanical engineer. Again, by warning the power from here, we emphasize that the methods that are to be developed should be implemented internally, not externally, but internally. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0131par0145	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill (11) of 403 rankings currently in session. We offer and propose that the Lu joke (b) be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Senal Sarıhan (Ankara) and his friends The 4th joke of Article 11 has been changed as follows, and the following joke has been added to Article 21 as follows. The visas are given by consulates, and in exceptional cases by governorates, where the border gates are bound. The appeals to the consulates will be finalized within 90 days. Visa applications can also be made by the authority agency. The application for a residence permit can also be applied for by the authority agency. Does the commission participate in the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0132par0157	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0131par0158	Ankara MP Senal Sarıhan has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0133par0161	Dear President, dear congressman friends, fellow writers, all the friends who have worked in this work, I salute you all. We're actually approaching the end of today's work. I don't want to argue about the law we're discussing, but I want to express my opinion on another law or a decree that we should be discussing today. There is a decree that must be discussed more seriously in front of the Turkish Grand National Assembly today, a decision on the state of emergency, which was first published in the Official Gazette, which was prepared to be put into effect. I believe that the fact that this decree has not yet been brought to our attention is a major flaw in the fact that it hasn't been discussed and approved by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I believe Parliament needs to discuss the extent to which our current state of emergency practices are in accordance with the law or the extent to which it should be legal. As it is known, with this decree, the detention period has been extended to 30 days, while the procedures to be carried out with the state-of-the-art decree require a limitation on the state of emergency as to the incident that caused this ad. For what reason was the state of emergency declared? Because of the coup attempt. In research due to the coup attempt, the fact that the period of detention has been set as a period of 30 days that has been fought and exceeds limited periods of time means the beginning of a completely illegal procedure, or at least in the future, an application that will be declared against the law in the future. Our friends here, our law-enforcement friends, know that the Republic of Turkey has been convicted many times for extended detention. Dear friends, you will say that this is a special occasion and it is an extraordinary state. In an extraordinary situation, some rights may be limited, whereas there are principles we refer to as "Siracusa principles," which have been adopted in the international plan, Siracusa principles, and these principles indicate that the rule of good faith must not be overcome, even in a state of emergency. In the back row, I have a dear friend, a friend of mine, who I believe has a very deep knowledge of the law, and I would like to bring to his attention the principle of narrow interpretation of limitation, the principle of respect for the rule of law and the principle of measure. The application in any decision made must be evaluated within this principle of measureability and within the principle of law enforcement. On the other hand, we cannot speak of the legality of a 30-day detention in any way. Again, it is against the law to have the right to cease to act in the proceedings, especially in dismissals, which will be brought to the agenda by the decree. When I called you yesterday at about the same time, I said, "Friends, we witness each other's conversations in the dining room or walking, and in these talks, many of our party friends, including the AKP, are talking about unfair detentions, unjust dismissals, and the work is turning into a witch hunt." Now, what system of law will this be eliminated by? If you can't get a decision to stop the execution, if such an audit is to be removed from legal control, how will justice be provided there from the state of emergency decrees? And how is this coup crime, attempted coup, that we've all admitted to as a crime, going to get a fair result? Will the criminal and the innocent not be mixed up in this practice? Dear friends, we are in front of us in an emergency... you know, the Fourth Amendment of the State of Emergency Act states that the declaration of the state of emergency is limited only to the subject that causes the ad, and again, all the decrees of the same law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Turkey expects the approval of the Grand National Assembly. We must hurry for this approval, or it is clear that we will be burdened with responsibility. I respectfully submit to your knowledge.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0134par0170	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes of Article 28 of Article 11 (b): Those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to you the vote of Article 28 of Article 11 (c): Those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the 11th joke of Article 28: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the 11th joke of Article 28: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to you the vote of Article 28 of Article 11 (e): Those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the 11th (f) of Article 28: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the 11th joke of Article 28: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the 11th joke of Article 28: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the 11th (h) of Article 28: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to you the 12th joke of Article 28: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the Interim Article 1 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 29 to your votes...
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0135par0184	We have a motion at 29.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0134par0185	There's a motion on Article 29 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Article 29 of the International Labor Law Bill 403 shall be put into effect three months after the publication of this Law. We propose and propose that it be changed in the form of the Law. See Lightning Kadir Ramdemir Desire Virtue Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0136par0195	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0134par0196	Mr. Ahrazoglu will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0137par0199	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding our motion on Article 29 of the International Labor Law Bill 403. I salute the Veteran Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I am once again condemning the treacherous, treacherous, and grave events of the 15th of July. I pray that our beloved nation and our country will never face such an attack again. Dear MPs, on July 15th, the information that our country and our nation have been exposed to has some internal and external connections. In this case, there is talk of the connections of the foreign altars to the terrorist organization. Time will reveal its connections in every way. Dear MPs, I'd like to point out what happened here in Syria and Syria. Today Aleppo is under siege, and the human drama is happening, and the world is watching. As of March 2011, opposition protests against the oppressive Assad regime began in Syria, and in August 2011, Aleppo was also jumped, and thousands of people were forced to descend into the square to say that their persecution was no more than bloody by regime forces. From that day on, regime forces under attack in the Bayır Bucak region and Aleppo centre have taken the support of the PYD and began to attack with heavy weapons against innocent people, among whom the Turks are a majority. Turkishmen have also launched attacks on densely populated areas, including ISIS terrorist organisations. In the early days of the demonstrations, the Assad administration used disproportionate force to open fire on civilians, allowing the Syrian government's stance to turn into a civil war. In the first year of the Resistance, Assad's administration was virtually reduced, but it was supported by Russia and Iran, and it was reinforcing the Aleppocee for a long time, trying to break siege and resistance. Because of the long civil war in the city, there was no food production, power lines, water supply, and the city's needs were being met from the outside. It is the Castello road that provides all the city's human needs, which extends to the northwest and connects it to the Church. With the last attack launched on July 8, 2016, the road was shut down and Aleppo was under full siege, no longer available to Aleppo, except for regime forces and PYD forces. Even if there is resistance in Syria, the city of Aleppo has long been discriminated against, bombed and reported from the region, as of July 20, 2016, water and food supplies were exhausted and a total of 500,000 civilians, including 200,000 Turkmen, are now in danger of starvation, epidemics and deaths. In the July 24, 2016 bombing, the city's medical institutions were targeted and seven health organizations were eliminated. People who are deprived of vital needs such as food, water, fuel, electricity, health, are left to die. In Aleppo, in the event of a full siege, deaths are expected in large numbers, including elderly, sick, and children first. As our President-General, State Gardener, appeared on Tuesday in a group speech, Aleppo is 30km away from the Church, and the footprints and works of our careers are in control of every square inch. "Halep is Gaziantep, a holy relic of centuries of brotherhood. The expression must be well understood by our government and our nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I expect international institutions and public opinion to make necessary attempts to get humanitarian aid to Aleppo and build a secure corridor, inviting all humanitarian aid agencies to condemn what happened in Aleppo and deliver the help, and I salute the Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0138par0208	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three proposals on the 30th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under Article 30 of the 403 legislature, which is currently in session, we propose and propose that "the Council of Ministers conducts the declaration of the Council of Ministers, which shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers. İdris Baluken Sibel Yiğitalp Mahal Danış Beştaş Now that I have two proposals that I'm going to read, I'm going to have them read and process together, and I'm going to make promises to those involved. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 30 of the International Labor Law Bill 403 be changed into Minister of Labor and Social Security. Baki Lightning Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Kadir Koçdemir Desire Erdem Erkan Akçay Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 30 of the International Labor Law Bill 403 be changed in the following way. 30 - The Minister of Labor and Social and Security conducts these laws. Yakup Akkaya Aytüğ Atı Engin Altay Ali Yiğit Çetin Arık Ünal Demirtaş Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't care, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0139par0234	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0138par0235	Istanbul MP Engin Altay has asked for a statement on the first motion of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Altay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Final speeches... Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0140par0240	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. I'm not going to give a speech on the content of the law, I'd like to say a few words on the terms of the power-Muslim relationship and the working procedures of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear friends, after a low coup attempt on July 15th, the common reflex of Turkey's Grand National Assembly naturally reflected a piece of the usual work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. So this bill was discussed before the coup, and as you can see, the bill that we talked about before the coup attempt, which, as a result of the negotiations between our friends and the government, was not exactly as the opposition wanted it to be, but the abstainion of all other opposition parties, their reserves, partly, and even largely, was taken into account in the bill of the law -- although there were positive improvements for us -- and as you can see, the entire bill that we talked about before the coup attempt, was officially 30 articles, but actually 59 articles of the bill of law, not so much in the middle of the morning, not in the middle of the middle of the night, not in the middle of the day, but in the civilized, like the hour of the hour of the day, when we were opened, as a man. 00, and 15. The bill was completed, starting at 00.00 p.m., and in two days. Is that bad? That's good. Now, we'd like to thank everyone who's worked here. We're not completely satisfied with the law, but it's a profit wherever you turn. We've contributed as constructively as we can in the sense of opposition. I want to get somewhere from here. We've drawn under the fact that politics is an open door business, that there's a question of dialogue, that there's a culture of reconciliation, and that there's a common reflex after the attack, and that there's this law. Good, good. I hope, and I hope, that's the understanding of the laws or proposals that come to the House in the future, and that's where it works, lawmakers. You know, it's not like we're working any other way. But there's no reason for all of us to be biologically, psychologically devastated by a senseless push to the point that Parliament has been subjected to a struggle by being stubborn to three, four, five, six. We'll look at it next week. If the government expects this next week, then this July 15th has brought us to a reasonable point. The opposition will look at the bill and proposals as positively as possible, as sincere, as constructive, as balanced, as well as well as with good intentions. If you say so, you will be mistaken. A friend of yours said it was very nice to hear and understand that the bomb that had been thrown into the assembly has passed through our ears. That's right, I'll sign under it. But my request and wish is that this Parliament will work in a civilized way if you consider the warnings, opinions, constructive proposals of the opposition, as well as the laws and proposals you will bring back from now on. Or what? Otherwise, everything the majority party wants goes through here anyway, we know that. But there's law, there's justice, there's the Civil Code, there's the Constitution, there's the right to use the rights of the opposition from the Civil Code. Don't waste yourself or the opposition parties using it, and don't waste it. We've sent a message to friends that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, against the enemy, can work in harmony, collaboratively for the best interests of Turkey. Don't make this a process. Let me end with this little warning: You pulled what we call black currency out of a bag that you had brought earlier in the previous term. So we believed in your sincerity and said, "Okay, then the other provisions of this bag are reasonable. But that one didn't look good. Now that you've made a 16-point bag, you've put that black money in it. This isn't elegant, this isn't elegant, I'd like to remind the ruling party's members of the ruling party, and the government. You have your appreciation, of course you do, you have your opportunity, but we're not the reason the House has ruined its reputation in public. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. Secretary, good luck with your law.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0141par0249	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Heromarash MP Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, who wants to speak on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0142par0252	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're at the end of the law, and soon the law will be passed, and I wish you well. But I'd like to bring a few things to your attention here. I hereby salute the grand jury. Of course, this land, which has stretched from Central Asia to Mediterranean as a mare, has become the destination of immigrants and fugitives in recent years. I'd like to finish my discussion by discussing a few issues regarding Syrian immigrants, protection demands, residence permit holders. In 2012, there were around 14,000 Syrians in our country, while in 2013, it rose to the level of 224,000. As of 30/06/2016, the number of Syrians under temporary protection is around 2,700,000. This does not include the number of Syrian intruders, according to the information provided by Interior Minister Efkan Ala. 1.5 per cent of Syrians have a university degree and 5 per cent have a profession. According to this table, the Syrian quality of labor is less than 10 per cent, more than 90 per cent lacks education, which is extremely important for the social structure. The second issue: there have been significant increases in the number of international protection applications over the years. In 2005, nearly 3,000 were raised to 30,000 in 2013, with the number of applications increased to 64 thousand in 2015, from 2005 to 2005, with the number of clients seeking protection of 216. Dear lawmakers, the number of foreigners who have received residence permit in our country has also been marked by significant increases. The number of foreigners who received residence permit in 2005 rose from 178 thousand to this 313,000 in 2013. At 313,000 in 2013, there were 424 thousand in 2015. Iraqis are the first to receive residence permits, followed by Syria, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Russia, Georgia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Libya and Iran. As it turns out, these countries have low income per unit, numerous problems. According to the Minister of Interior's statement, a total of 3 million immigrants live in our country. According to UN computing standards, the amount spent on Syrian immigrants so far is around 11 billion dollars. This is investment financing for the poor, for the poor, for investments, for the unemployed. The Syrians should appreciate it. Turkey has nothing to do with 4.8 growths in the last quarter and Syrian immigrants. The amount spent on the Syrian is from the magnificence of this great Turkish nation, it's out of charity, it's out of hospitality. Dear lawmakers, even though they're not like Medinan refugees, we've opened our doors to the Syrians with that understanding. Whether you want to or not, our country is facing a foreign reality as of today, and it is certain that opening the doors too much will increase economic and social problems. I expect our Department of Labor and Social Security to be very thorough about this. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0143par0261	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Council of Ministers shall be changed by the Council of Ministers, which shall be carried out in Article 30 of the Law Bill 403. İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0144par0270	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0143par0271	Diyarbakır MP İdris Bauken will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0145par0274	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have now made a commitment to the proposals on the last articles of Law 403, where we have finished their talks. He set a good example of how a bill can actually pass when a certain compromise is sought here. We, in this current way, have tried to express the flawed aspects of this law in terms of employment and labour space as much as possible, but we have tried to share our constructive contributions as much as possible as possible as opposition to a minimum level of compromise with both the Minister and the members of the ruling party, to carry out our cautionary role, our stimulus mission. So the next responsibility, despite all our warnings, is at the ruling party that will pass the bill here, and I want to stress that. Of course, both this week and last week, each of us may actually have our eyes and ears here, but our brains and minds are in the same state of mind that the country is facing after the July 15 coup attempt. And what we really need to discuss is that this country that's going through this has to be about a partnership about how the people in this country can get out, a common mind, a rational mind. Over and over again, we've said that we're on the same ship, 79 million people in this country on the same ship, we're either going to cross these stormy seas together, and we're going to make it to a safe port, or unfortunately we're going to have to share a fate that we don't all agree on as 79 million in the same ship. We have noted that policies based on polarisation, conflict and war in the country are wrong. In particular, we've had numerous conversations on this bench about the dangers of security-axis policies conducted over the last year. I don't need to remind you of all of them, but I'd especially like to ask the MPs to review the transcripts of the talks from this bench on the laws that have been removed and granted immunity to these juvies. In fact, the first bomb was dropped on Parliament, Parliament, democratic politics that day. On the day we took immunity from MP and Parliament and brought immunity to the juntaciers, the people who did the coup, we actually dropped a big bomb in the middle of this House. Now we think about how we should be able to learn the right lessons and make a common search, and in doing so, we have the obligation to develop policies that will involve all 79 million people in this process. Look, at least we don't see this painting outside the House looking for compromise. We see that you still have an understanding out there that you are trying to exclude HDP (HDP) or target HDP (HDP) and therefore have an understanding in the HDP person, especially in Kurds, trying to exclude the representation of different peoples or different religions in this country from the re-building process. This is the greatest danger that can be done at this time, the greatest mistake. We think we can get out of this period with human rights, democracy, the state of law, and the criteria for social peace, and we think we can get out of here, and the basic way to break this impact mechanics is through a political concept that has its back on the entire 79 million. Today, if the confederates are eliminated, replaced by Ergenekons, or approached by other versions of power struggles within the state, I fear that the next process may not be coup mechanics, but a practice of civil war that exceeds it. So I think what each of us should do is expand the area of democratic politics as much as possible, institutionalize democracy as possible, and try to get through this mess that we're all on the same ship with. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0146par0283	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Thus, the negotiations on the bill are complete. Before we vote on the bill, the Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I will have it read and put to your votes. Here you go. At a meeting of the advisory council on Thursday 28/07/2016 (today), it was deemed appropriate for the General Assembly to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly's meeting Friday (29/07/2016). Justice and Development Party Group Republican People's Party Group Peoples' Democratic Party Group National Movement Party Group I submit the counsel board proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Yes, the negotiations on the bill were complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The International Labor Law Bill is open to vote: [[x]] Ali Haydar Hakverdi Mustafa Elgöz So the bill is accepted, and the law is made, and good luck. Minister, here's the thank-you speech.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0147par0324	My dear President, our esteemed lawmakers, who, after a series of events in our country that we remember and remember every minute in a historic process on July 15th, the Great National Assembly of Turkey wanted to be removed immediately after this series of events, insisted on carrying out its own trust and representation, which the nation has given itself and brought before it a very important change to Turkey, which is now the 403th Bill, formerly known as Law 4817, which was adopted with your votes, and was recently adopted by the law, and brought to its face with a very important change for Turkey. First of all, we express our gratitude and gratitude to all our members of the Commission, especially to the EC PARTY Group, Republican People's Party Group, the People's Party Group, the HDP Group, and the Labour Ministry's very valuable bureaucrats, staff, and everyone, who have given this law about 15 or 20 years of work while it is being assessed. This was important because the coups do not only want to address governments, but they do it to the spirit of the people and to the everyday habits of the people, to eliminate tradition of coups, traditions, traditions, traditions, grandmothers, trends, impacts, all routine procedures. And the first evening of the House here, the will is a very important will. Maybe it's not about today, but I want to make a point of my own understanding of democracy: if Turkey hadn't been lawmakers in the Grand National Assembly that evening and this parliament hadn't been opened, my theory of democracy would have been that the issue of legitimacy of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would have been exposed because the people who gave the power of attorney, and the people who carried out the power of attorney, did it themselves. However, those who have the power here, under the glorious roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, have established a democracy epic here with our people and with the resources and assessments of legitimacy that our nation has provided for it, and it is not important to sign a very important law here right after that, that your name or this is not important, that it includes this or that, is one of the important events under which the Turkish National Assembly has been signed under its future functionality. I'd like to end it with an anecdote about why we saved it, what we're really up against. After the 1960 coup -- which I'm guessing would have far more severe consequences than the 1960 coup -- the late Mendeles will be executed. All family property, property, money, bank accounts, everything is confiscated. A lot of parents can't send their kids to school. The ministers teach their children in some private schools, but since they no longer have any money, let's send it to schools where they have been stable for years and have been friends for years. They say, "Let's send it to school for one year, two years." Inside this painting comes a piece of paper to the late Menderes' house. The paper that comes in contains death money and rope money. The family gathers, and there's no way they can afford it. They say, "What should we do?" Let's open a bank account, and we'll try to pay for it... and they'll get permission to open a bank account, open a bank account. Once his bank account is opened, there's this great nation... which means we're part of this great nation here. When bombs were dropped on the Turkish Grand National Assembly, those who stood here bravely without fear, those who stood in front of the tank with their lives at the expense, the great nation, like those who ran at the gun, sent the money into the bank that day. The family paid off the debt and didn't even think about what the rest of the money could be done, so there's money in the account. And one day, if I remember correctly -- I'm transferring it to you from the late Aydın Menderes -- a high school principal in Karabuk, I guess -- which I'm telling you again -- there's going to be a new high school, and he's demanding that the rest of this money be given here from the family. The family got back together, and they agreed that the transfer of that money would be there. The most important part is from now on. The interested director later came to the late Aydın Menderes, and told Mrs. Berrin, saying that each of the funds we received in the bank had been sent to the account for $1. What this means is that people are not perhaps the great investors of that day, but not the great riches of that day. You know, the people who sometimes criticised him for his vote and my vote, you know, that people, that nation that sent the dollar out of his pocket, that day, they owned the trusts that democracy left that day and democracy left that day. Today we are the representatives of this nation, and they, thank God, have kept this great trust all over our land, and this great assembly has taken possession of it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On this occasion, we have met with opposition parties, especially in the matter of the law. I'd like to say that we met before our official commission meeting, we presented it to them, then we met at the commission meeting, then we met before the commission meeting, we reached a mutual agreement, and we continued the same line under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, whatever we agreed on there. At first, I thank our very dear President of our Commission, all of his executives and members, and all of our political parties, all of our beloved members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, all of our esteemed members of the group, and our esteemed president and the highly respected bureaucracy of our Ministry of Labor, and I salute you all with respect and respect.
tbmm-2016-07-28sit03spe0148par0334	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. God bless you. Thank you very much. Members of parliament, we will move to talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the adoption of the Consulate Agreement between the Montenegrin Government in 130 rows. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report (1/495) and with the European Commission Report (1/495) that Approved Agreement on the Moving of Passengers and Stuff to the Road. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with the Turkish Foreign Ministry of the Republic of Turkey and with the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, where the Co-operation Protocol between the Montenegrin Foreign Ministry is proper. Commission? No. It's been postponed. After the decision that the commission will not be held, it is also agreed that the Constitution shall be allowed to use these forces on Tuesday (August 2nd 2016) to discuss verbal questions and other audit issues as part of the UN operations and missions carried out in Fiscal and Central African Republic and to discuss the terms of the border, the amount and time of the government's government. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Good evening and have a good week. God be with you.
