tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Showing banners from HDP rows]] We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Adıyaman MP Behcet Yıldırım, who wants to talk about health workers' problems. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. Your time is five minutes, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today, I have made a promise to tell you about the health problems in the region, the attacks on health workers. As the right to live with curfews has been ignored, unfortunately there are also intense attacks on health workers who are working on saving lives. Even during the war, when health workers were determined in international law that they should be protected, in order to prevent attacks on health workers during curfews, the government has yet to hear a single positive statement from the government. Applications aimed at health workers are still under way during months of conflict in the region. Eyüp Ergen, who served in the Emergency Service at Cizre State Hospital, was shot to death by police officers who also worked at Beytüşşebap, Şehmuz Dursun, who also worked at Beytüşşebap. Following the overkill of health workers, the state has grave claims that Kurdish medics have a death list. In the process, public hospitals are occupied by special operations police. Hospital gardens have been contained by Panzers, emergency rooms have been evacuated and have been made the base of the Special Operations Police. Special Ops officers treat patients and injured people who come to health services badly and at ease. The Ministry of Health confesses that even when health workers arrive at the hospital, there is no safety at all. Medical workers are hereby forced to work for ten days without taking a break. The number of admissions to hospitals has been severely reduced. There are serious obstacles to accessing health care institutions for injured and chronically ill people. These illegal practices make the health environment unsafe, while making health workers and health institutions a target. It's an insecure environment that's breaking the urge to work. Hence, many health workers want to get away from the place where they live either on leave or on assignment or on resignations. Paramedics say they are depressed by ongoing conflicts, threats and pressures, and do not want to work under these conditions. Funerals are kept on the street for days. It is clear that this practice will cause deep, irreparable trauma in humans. Perhaps the most affected part of human health is the funeral held in the middle of the street. All these attacks have been added to the media attacks, which appear to have been run by a certain center for days. All health workers in the region, especially Dicle University Tip Faculty Hospital health workers, are declared terrorists, are accused of deliberately treating injured security forces. Nurse Abdulaziz Vural, who was shot trying to help a woman on December 30, 2015, was declared guilty when she was buried two days ago. In a gunfight, false broadcasts are being made because the dead have been seized. These publications are intended. It's not journalism to target health workers, physicians, with his name. I'd like to address the Ministry of Health here, where are you when there are so many attacks on health workers? Don't these publications have a couple of words to point out? When your own personnel are being declared terrorists with his name on it, do you think of just giving him a bonus, buying an armored ambulance? In the region, lynching and defamation campaigns against health workers who are trying to provide health care under dangerous and difficult circumstances have directly targeted all health workers. It has to be known that the only person responsible for the slightest negativity of health workers from these lynching and hate campaigns is the Health Minister and the AKP government, who condoned and even supported this campaign. As a solution, street conflicts that have caused health workers' rights violation should be removed immediately, as well as the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Interior and the conflicting parties must abide by international law. While the AKP has appointed a deputy to places where it can't be elected, come, as far as I know in Parliament, there are 45. There are about 100 doctors, medical workers, so let's form a delegation with them, and let's go to the region. Let's talk to both health workers and the public, and we'll look at things together. The Health Department is planning to give us breakfast tomorrow at the Health Commission. I'd like to have this breakfast together with the people in Cizre, Tyre, Silopi, and listen to their problems. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0003par0034	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Zonguldak MP Özcan Uupınar, who wants to speak about the great mining march. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Nupınar.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0004par0039	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book promise due to the 25th anniversary of the great mining march. I hereby salute your high council. The great mining march has shed light on all democratic forces along with our country's workers and workers. After their strike in 1990, miners from Zonguldak started the great Ankara march from January 4th to January 8th in 1991 because they refused to accept the employer's demands. In 1848, the Zonguldak mine basin, which began to produce coal, hosted many challenges to improve the working and living conditions of mining workers. Years ago -- you all remember today -- our Zonguldish mining brothers and sisters started walking with their families to Ankara because they didn't get what they deserved in collective contract of employment. Our miners don't just extract coal from the mines, they claim our national mines, just as they put all their bodies under the stone to keep our country's strategic mines alive. They didn't just start walking to Ankara after bread money, they walked to destroy the games that were being played on our mines and to ensure that our country's national strategic values will live on forever. Today's energy wars were evidence of the righteous struggle of our fellow miners in those days. What we've come to today is how important it is to keep our country's national and strategic mines alive. In order to live up to our values, it has been revealed that the situation of profit and harm always needs to be assessed at the next stage. Our miners, who work under extreme stress in the most risky professional group, have been subjected to years of fear of being unemployed. Our mines will be able to make a profit tomorrow as much as they can today. In order for our energy needs to be provided with local resources, our mines must be constantly activated. Like our soldiers, our police, our doctors, our mining workers are representatives of a group of workers who are strategically important to our country. For the national interests of our country, our brothers and sisters will continue to serve our country forever, for this precious profession that puts its entire body under stone to make it worthy of our mines. Investments launched by our government in 2004 at Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation continue. In the process that has come to date, our AK PARTI governments have planned their mining policies in an international way, open to the world, to trigger national development, so that they can achieve what they need to do for this loyal and painful workers, to gain the value that miners and miners deserve. Today, TTK is able to increase the production of condensation as soon as possible. During our EC PARTY administrations, the professional risks of the mining profession have been minimised and the hours of work are set at 37 and a half hours a week. A weekend holiday and two minimum wage payments have been enforced. Our government and the Ministry of Energy know very well that our strategic mines should not be looked at as a commercial institution that is profiting or damaging. Our mines, profit or loss, are our strategic values for our country. For our national values, the people of Zonguldak have martyred over 5,000 miners. Our mining workers' safety and working standards have been upgraded to the highest levels, with a 90-point business safety package recently adopted by our government. Some of the additional costs are covered by our government, with its working standards at the highest level. Our efforts by our government are under way to make sure that our private mining workers do not become victims. Our mining brothers should always be welcome in this regard. In order to increase the level of production and profitability in our mines, we continue our efforts to recruit miners for our coal companies. The Honorable President, the esteemed lawmakers, there is a wife or son in every house in our Zonguldak province. The Zonguldak woman who sends her wife and son to the mine waits with hope for a safe return. I pray to God for the mercy of all mine martyrs who have died in the mines until now, and to all our fellow miners who have sweated with their lives in the mines, that the Lord God give them ease.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0005par0048	Thank you, Mr. Nupınar. The third non-responsored statement is from Bursa MP Lale Karbük, who called for the January 7-14 White Cane Blind Week. Here you go, Mr. Carabinieri. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0006par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I wish God's mercy to those who lost their lives in yesterday's traitorous attack in Istanbul, and to their grieving families, and immediate healing for the wounded. Yeah, it's White Cane Blind Week. In this important week, I've been promised off the agenda to address the problems and demands of our blind citizens. Since 1921, the white cane has been used as a symbol. The white cane is in history as a symbol that allows the visually impaired to actually move freely. Now, let's not forget that we can all be blind at any moment. Today, one person in the world can become visually impaired in five seconds, one child per minute, and one of the five visually impaired can be treated or prevented, while others cannot. In fact, I find it helpful to point out that being visually impaired is not only a health problem, but also a social obstacle. I'd like to point out here that one of the eight people in our country -- about 8,500,000 people -- are disabled, some 2 million of our citizens are children, and some 100,000 are blind. However, there are only 16 elementary schools for the visually impaired in our country -- Adana, Ankara, Çanakkale, Denizli, Erzurum, Gaziantep, İstanbul, İzmir, Kayseri, Kahramanmarash, Konya, Niğde, Tokat and Diyarbakır -- there are only two rehab centres that provide basic and professional education for visually impaired persons in their 15 and older years. So it shows that our visually impaired citizens only have 10 percent of the benefit of education, and we have that kind of truth. At the same time, certain tools and equipment are required to be kept in these schools, while most of them are lacking. On the other hand, there are still families in our country who do not send their disabled children to school, who are not aware of certain possibilities or are inadequate. Therefore, I think it is urgent that the Ministry of National Education conduct a planned and methodical work nationwide on the matter. Again, private education and rehabilitation services are the duty of the state according to our Constitution. However, here we see a privatized service, and because the prices are too high, the state has been underpaid, so we're dealing with an expensive educational system. Again, he can't afford all of the state costs in buying glasses for our visually impaired or semi-visually impaired citizens. On the other hand, I'd like to request that empty staffs for disabled persons in public and private sectors be filled, new employment staffs for disabled persons and quotas increased, and special incentives for disabled employers to be assessed. Another important issue, valuable lawmakers, visually impaired citizens, are trying to move from one place to another on city buses to another, trying to maintain social life or work life. However, there is a system with a card. For example, there's one thing we're very critical of in Bursa. Only six times a day, but during the election, the general election was increased to 10 times a day, and then limited to 4 ▪ after the election. I've never seen such practice in other cities, but I wonder why we're putting a limit on our visually impaired people and a barrier. On the other hand, buses need a sound signaling system. Because our blind citizen doesn't know where he's coming from, where he's going to get off, and he doesn't know which bus he's going to get on from at the stops -- because he can't see the number -- and he doesn't know where he's going. These signaling systems need to be done as soon as possible. The other thing is, they can't possibly use the phones. There are programs especially for visually impaired people. There are now technologies installed by these programs. There was some disbanded, there was a campaign, but it wasn't enough, and it caused problems. I'd like to bring this to your attention. As I end my words, I offer my deepest love and respect to all blind citizens this week. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0007par0069	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. Now, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to lawmakers who are entering the electronic system demanding word. I'm starting the promise process. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0008par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, since I've caught you here... I'm a third-term MP, originally from the district of Şanliurfa Hilvan. This Hilvan County has no drinking water. As Minister, I don't know, I probably won't get elected next semester either, but at least this semester, let's bring the drinking water of this Hilvan. Second, my late parents are also Adıyaman. All of Adıyaman's filthy sewer waters flow to the Ataturk Dam. This is a crime under Article 184 of the Turkish Penal Code. In that sense, when are you going to build Adıyaman's desalination, dirty, dirty water treatment facility? The third issue is that the blind do not have upper secondary schools to study in Turkey. Education is a human right. Where will our blind citizens who have no high school study? When are we going to stop this violation of human rights? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0009par0080	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0010par0082	Mr. President, Congressmans, after the November 1st elections, I'd like to give examples of the research proposals submitted to parliament by the Republican People's Party and the AKP has rejected. Let's investigate the drama of east and south east of our country and the thousands of citizens who had to leave their homes and migrate to other cities, the threats and measures on life and property safety. We said, "Let's investigate." The AKP rejected it. Let freedom of press be investigated. We said, "The AKP has refused." We submitted a motion to investigate corruption, and the AKP rejected it again. Last week, one of our Roma citizens froze to death in a tent, and we said, "Let's investigate the problems of our Roman citizens." Again, it was rejected by the AKP. We expect a opposition party to stand by its commitments from the ruling party, which rejects all proposals just so it does not be accepted, but says it will follow a pluralist, liberal and democratic approach to the government programme. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0011par0086	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0012par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you signed under the question I gave you regarding Cerattepe, and you said: "There is no forest massacre in Cerattepe." The interested company says: "I am going to cut down 33,000 trees. I want to talk to you about something else. The news just came in, and Cerattepe, the guys from the Forest Regional Directorate, are being accompanied by the gendarmes. You said here: "There will be no cutting of the trees, no cutting of the forest. " You, Minister, are responsible if the blood flows in Artvin, today or tomorrow. Look, there's something very serious going on, you don't realize where this dimension is going to go. At Artvin, right now, the citizen in Cerattepe is trying to protect the forest from you, Minister, from you. You should know that. The citizen says: "Let the Minister of the Forest not cut down the tree... from your grace, from your district manager... let's see if you win or we win, Mr. Secretary. I wonder how you're gonna pull this off. Look, if someone gets a nosebleed from now on, it's on you, you're gonna pay for it, Mr. Secretary, so let me make this very clear. 50,000 trees will be cut down, and you said here: "You can't cut down a tree." There's only one definition of that in the law, not to tell the truth, but to lie. I'm just saying, shame on you, that's all I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0013par0091	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0014par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, as many problems with the Mersinites are not enough, citizens suffer from a bus trouble in Mersin. Opening the bus station, which was completed and completed during the CHP period, was given to the National Movement Party's Metropolitan Mayor. However, problems with running the bus station have not been solved for nearly two years. Buses cannot enter the bus, citizens are collected from oil stations in the rain, in the mud, or left in the counties, citizens are humiliated by their own money. Instead of solving this problem, the Metropolitan City City is planning to sell the bus station and get rid of it. This situation is never acceptable. The autogar must either be properly operated by the Metropolitan Municipality or the bidding is renewed and the suffering of the citizens must be ended immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0015par0096	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0016par0098	Mr. President, thank you. Patients who have been treated at Balıkesir State Hospital in particular in the oncology services have had major problems due to lack of doctors over the past year. They say there were two doctors in the oncology service earlier, but one doctor left a year ago, so the only doctor had to take care of all the patients. The service doctor serves 100 patients a day, which is why patients have to wait in line for a long time. The fact that Balıkesir, a single doctor in the oncology service, with nearly 1,200,000 populations, is located at Metropolitan status, is the most concrete indication of where we are in the human-power planning of health care. What we expect from the government is that they will be quick to be sensitive to this issue, that the patients of the oncology service, which is already in distress, will be kept in hospital corridors and...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0015par0101	Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0017par0103	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Manisa Metropolitan Municipality, removes the existing mechanical water meter and replaces it with a prepaid water meter and receives $230 from subscribers. 193,000 water counters will be changed, including Manisa, Salihli, Turgutlu, Alaşehir, Soma, Saruhanlı, Gölmarmara and Kırktağ districts, and 50 million dollars will be raised in Manisa's pockets. Since municipalities have to carry out their duty to ensure drinking and using water without exception and under no preconditions, this practice clearly violates consumer rights and judicial decisions. The Supreme Court, however, has also made a general decision in its precedent, which sheds light on cases to be filed, that the choice of the counter is left to the consumer, which is not required or forced to use card counters. For these reasons, Manisa Metropolitan City must end the practice of wearing a card clock without the citizen's approval. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0018par0106	Mr. Saribal...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0019par0108	Mr. President, after yesterday's massacre in Sultanahmet Square in Istanbul, we condemn the ban on the press release by the government. We say he needs to see the example of Paris. We're saying once again that it's wrong for this country to bring up the gag order after such events so that this community can be informed of the facts. Again, we strongly condemn TÜİKlK to have punished those who did not respond to these polls by visiting families, by conducting some surveys, between $1,000 and 1,500 lira, and we call on TİKlK to serve. Look, I'd like to share an incident that took place in Burma: A house is being visited. She's Kurd, she doesn't speak Turkish. They say they want to poll him, but she doesn't know what the poll is, we don't have an antenna, we don't need an antenna. She won't accept it. A family with no jobs is fined $1,100.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0018par0110	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0020par0112	Mr. Secretary, the health, education and environment of my constituency, Bursa, is growing. He received very little from investments, and he became unable to handle his growing population, one of his deepest problems is the environment. Unfortunately, we can't prevent the contamination of our city's water supply. The urban and industrial waste water that was given to Lotus Tea before it was purified in Bursa today is significantly polluting the Lotus Tea. Similarly, spillwaters from irregular solid waste, agricultural pollution, car wash water from gas stations, and street pollution from rainwaters have caused a large number of contamination of Lotus Tea. This leads to massive environmental pollution. I'd like your ministry to take a closer look at this, and I want the environmental problem solved.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0018par0113	Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0021par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, yesterday in Istanbul, Turkey was shaken by a major terrorist attack on the heart of tourism. Of course, the government, as in every case, is a major issue in Turkey's agenda of terrorism, human health and safety by bringing bans, bringing bans, avoiding responsibility. Look, the government can't avoid taking responsibility by hiding behind the sacred concepts of the state... of peacemakers, advocates of freedom, spies, and critics of the government's actions. In Turkey, today, if someone has broken through the Syrian border yesterday and set off a bomb in the heart of tourism and caused the deaths of dozens of our citizens, it is the responsibility of the MIT, the Home Secretary, the Security Intelligence Agency, not the press. Instead of taking responsibility for the government's opposition and the press -- as an honorable act -- the Minister of the Interior must resign.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0018par0117	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0022par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. In the November 1st election, the AKP government remained in the classroom, as always in its policy to reduce VAT to 1 per cent in fertilizer and bait, which the Republican People's Party copied from its electoral promises. According to the information we've received, there have been serious increases in both fertilizer and eating before the VAT rates have dropped. The application was very unsuccessful, and the farmer's source, unfortunately, has gone to a large capital that plays a role in these sectors based on imported raw materials. So, the $2 billion that the government left to the farmer in the fertilizer alone went to support large capital companies. Another issue is an increase in SGK and BUG-KUR bonuses to fund a minimum wage increase. Our farmers' BUG-KUR premiums have increased by 35.2%. That's a very high rise, the farmer can't pay for it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0023par0122	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0024par0124	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, our relations with our neighbours have been broken due to the failure of power's economic policy, and our general exports have dropped by 10.2% due to the failure of terrorism in our country, and our naval exports have dropped by 16.1%. What measures do you intend to take to prevent our exports from falling under the circumstances? When are you going to do the VAT return of the marine exporter and all kinds of state benefits? When are you going to pay off the city's VAT debts? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0025par0127	Mr. Hakver...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0026par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week on the Diet website, a fatwa was published about the possibility that your father could rape his own daughter. I'm not going to read it because I'm embarrassed. But those who identify and are not relieved of duty will be complicit in this crime. Also, those who accuse those who respond to this error of being anti-religious will be complicit in this crime. We're waiting, we're going to be his followers to the end, we're persistent, and we must ask this General Assembly and the relevant ministry to be questioned about the account of this perversion. We're his followers, and we're not gonna let him go.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0025par0131	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0027par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. This includes those who had to emigrate because of the war in February 2015, due to a change in legislation and spending regulations for the prime ministerate's AFAD presidency. Unfortunately, however, our citizens, forced to emigrate due to curfews in our country, are unable to use the AFAD services. We're asking if the government is taking measures or if it's taking sufficient measures to address the victims of our citizens who are forced to migrate from the curfews, and if it's not, we demand that these measures be taken immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0028par0136	Mr. Ok...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0029par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. The guarantee of our future is that the devoted teachers of the educational army, who raised our children, are treated as stepchildren by the AKP government. The dedicated workers of the training army are the eyes of my fellow teachers at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As a substitute teacher, I would like to request that our fellow teachers be given 3600 additional indicators and at some point compensated for the victims of their education workers. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0030par0141	Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0031par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. From Ayvansaray to Yekkule, the moats along the historical black walls were carrying out various functions for the city's defence and agricultural production, along with the wall in the Ottoman era. Ditches are an area of agricultural production, an important quality of Ottoman cities. It's the last example we know of of the bostians in the ditch between Silivrikap and Yedikule that reflect this quality. The well, including the water cabinet, the empty chamber, the fruit trees, and the nursery, has found a detailed place in the Ottoman record. The quagmires are an architectural element of Ottoman agriculture, culture and technology, and we demand that the destruction that began earlier this morning be stopped, and that the municipality and its relevant institutions protect the bostans and the bostans, a traditional duty. As Republican People's Party, we will continue to defend green, nature, the city. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0032par0146	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0033par0148	Dear President, as in your knowledge, the Ayþe teacher who was connected to White has declared a terrorist, and, finally, over a thousand intellectuals have described their declarations on peace and stopping violence as acts of terror. This reminds me of the Enlightenment Proclamation case on September 12th, and I'm asking if history repeats itself. I want to tell you when we're going to go forward, when we're going to feel responsible for the investigation of the facts, and we're going to open the way for the country.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0032par0149	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0034par0151	Mr. Secretary, our citizens from Tokyo are victims. It's not acceptable that both the materials are inferior and that our citizens are in debt to raise their principal money. Our already struggling citizens are in even greater trouble because of an unproportionate increase. IT reminds us once again that the TOKI (TİKI) has no purpose for profit, we expect you to take steps to compensate for the victims of our citizens.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0032par0152	Mr. Reader...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0035par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Cyprus Mujahideen, President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, the fourth anniversary of the death of the great statesman Rauf Denktas. As it is known, Rauf Denktash dedicated his entire life to the rights, equality and freedom of the Turkish Cypriot people. Denktas' leadership will protect its unique place in our hearts and in history. In particular, we are looking for the late Denktas, and his struggling personality, in which Cypriot talks have been carried out in a manner that might refer to the acceptance of Greek thesis. We feel his absence in our hearts all the time. With these feelings, I ask God's mercy on him as the 4th anniversary of his death.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0032par0156	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0036par0158	Mr. President and my fellow lawmakers, the approach to university education that shapes the bright tomorrows of a country also shows importance to the young and therefore the future of that country. But, unfortunately, we don't see positive improvements in this kind of sensitivity in our country. In this sense, the allowance from students who study in the second course of colleges is almost a nightly schedule in education and points out that it is an unfair practice among students. First of all, the second tuition fees, which violate the principle of equality of the Constitution, should be removed before the students see it as a customer. The authorities must address this sacrifice by making the necessary legal changes regarding mandatory fees. Is there any study on this subject? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0032par0160	Mr. Starsniper...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0037par0162	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, the Ministry of Health has announced a growing level of patient satisfaction in its survey results. The interesting thing is, these polls were excluded from terminal patients and dialysis patients. I mean, how realistic are the results of a survey where real patients, such as cancer patients, severe diabetics, severe coronary patients, and dialysis patients are not asked about? These results are tragic. I expect objective scientific results to be revealed.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0032par0163	Mr. Göker...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0038par0165	Mr. President, as opposition lawmakers under the roof of Congress, we speak as much as we can about the problems of our local and country, but we are aware that these statements are not even considered by the ruling representatives. Yesterday, our Minister of Energy turned the General Assembly into a reception hall. He didn't listen to us, he didn't listen, he didn't pay attention to our warnings. On behalf of history and the honor of Parliament, I call on the representatives of power: democracy is a serious business. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0032par0167	Thank you. Mr. Group, I see the vice presidents have a voice request. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0039par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. We are in the 4th anniversary of the death of the late Rauf Denktas, leader of Turkish Cypriot Turkish Cypriots, founder of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I remember this great figure of the Turkish nation with mercy, respect, and gratitude. Denktash has established the heart of our beloved nation as a man of trial, action and ideas in his lifetime for the sake of Turkish Cypriotism. Cyprus has shown great zeal for the rights and interests of Turkey. Denktash was an insufferable advocate of the Turkish Cypriot rights of existence. The AKP government is unfortunately not taking over Denktas' case today. The solution process, which the AKP has started by saying "unsolved" is not the solution. The solution process is progressing through a process that leads to the resolution and liquidation of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. The AKP does not stand firm behind the existence of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. We expect and hope that he will show that determination. As the National Movement Party, we will continue to advocate the sovereignty and future struggle of Turkish Cypriots. I once again remember the late Rauf Denktas, the founding President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, who was sent to eternity with these thoughts, with mercy and gratitude. Also, as you know, 10 people were killed yesterday in Sultanahmet Square, a historical, cultural, social and architectural symbol of Turkey, and 11 others were injured. The treacherous and bloody actions of terrorism continue to take lives and shed blood all over our country. AKP's personal and arbitrary domestic and foreign policies have led our country to become an area of terrorist attacks. Turkey, which has managed to avoid conflict in the Middle East for decades with successful foreign policy moves, has become almost the first target of this administration and terrorist attacks. Our border security is lost. Even terrorists who enter with refugees from the Syrian border are undetectable. ISIS, on the one hand, has continued to launch attacks in our country as a PKK murder ring. An attack such as this in one of Istanbul's most central locations points to an advanced level of security and intelligence weakness.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0040par0179	Please complete your statement, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0039par0180	I am, Mr. President. Thank you. Despite this fact, a minister of the government mentions that there is no security weakness. On the one hand, you will have power over public safety, and on the other hand, you will not feel responsible for life bombs and security that have exploded at the centre of Istanbul, Ankara, Suruç. This is not acceptable. A government's first priority is to ensure public safety, safety of property, order, effective and preventive combat with terrorism. Well, if the government doesn't feel responsible, who is? Will the Justice and Development Party rule place the responsibility on the German Home Secretary this time, and ask the German Home Secretary to resign? Dear lawmakers, the threat to our country is very high, Turkey is in the circle of terrorist organizations. We invite the government to take a decisive, decisive, and uncompromising attitude in order to avoid these setbacks. With these thoughts, we are once again condemning the terrorist attack on Sultanahmet Square in Istanbul. For foreign citizens who have lost their lives during their visits to our country, we send our condolences to their families and countries, wishing immediate healing to the wounded. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0041par0185	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0042par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in the 4th year of his death, I honor Rauf Denktas, the unforgettable leader of our descendants in Cyprus. Mr. Denktash, as a leader who had played a very important role in the struggle of our relatives in Cyprus from the very beginning, I bow to his memory, a historical leader in Cyprus and Turkey. In the meantime, a news I have seen today as a result of talks between the parties in Cyprus has included a statement of former President Mehmet Ali Talat. A referendum will take place in Cyprus, perhaps in June. In this case, Mr. Secretary, I think there are countless benefits for our Cypriot Parliament to open a general discussion. I also find it useful for our Parliament to know what's going on about the events and the process. I'm personally conveying my request to the Minister. Mr. President, I ask God's mercy on all the people who have lost their lives, foreign nationals -- almost all of them -- in connection with the fact that yesterday's events in Sultanahmet have been imposed on us and the press ban has been imposed on us. This has now become an event that will cause a serious shock to Turkey's reputation in the outside world, and is being closely monitored by the world's televisions, and media agencies are carefully focusing on it. I mean, even with such an important event... Again, I repeated this request yesterday, but it is clear that this incident must be discussed in our House. I mean, it's sad to say that as a Turkish citizen watching from foreign channels. It's another sad part of the job to learn from foreign channels rather than from our official offices and from our own official channels. Finally, Mr. President, it's another question as to why the funerals of civilian citizens who died during a period of increasing tension in the east and southeast have not been delivered to their relatives. I mean, even in wars between countries, sometimes they're interrupted, funerals are taken, wounded are recovered, but what's the reason why people in our own country don't have to be delivered to their families? It also reveals other traumas and other tensions. I mean, the government is much more responsible for a human event, and it needs to be understood by its human dimension. Pain over pain, traumas cause other traumas, tensions...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0043par0193	Complete your words, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0042par0194	...is causing other tensions, and everyone is getting hurt by these tensions. Now, we need to be very rational here and meet the demands for such humanitarian reasons. So we sent our medics to Diyarbakir last week. Mr. Secretary, there are many health problems. People need to be closely monitored by the Ministry of Health for people who have access to hospitals, health care and who want to receive injured or otherwise health care, and they need immediate care. We've found serious problems in Diyarbakir in terms of health. What happened in Cizre, in Silopi, in the other region is even worse. We have to get our country out of a painting like this. The government must make the proposed solutions to reduce tensions. In this case, east and southeast... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to point out that this is a very important issue during this period of extremely intense emotional dissolution.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0044par0198	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0045par0201	Mr. President, thank you. First, on the 4th anniversary of death, I ask Rauf Denktas to have mercy on him one more time. What he did for Cyprus will not be forgotten. On the other hand, you know, after this Sultanahmet massacre, there were a lot of conversations, evaluations. I'd like to point out that when a controversial press body has been massacred in France, it cries out to the French children in the headlines of eight columns. He has made the headline: a noble attitude that shares the pain. The headline after the Sultanahmet massacre is: "Katliam country." When you compare the two headlines, this headline, which shares the pain towards France, points to a hostile political psychology against the country when it comes to Turkey. I'd like to say that this is a very problematic opposition political psychology. They may not like the fact that the EC PARTY is in power. They may not like the actions of the EC PARTY. But none of us have any other country. When it comes to suffering, what can I get out of politics? It is not appropriate for people from any environment to reveal such political psychology with language games that the voters would not approve of. This is not a service to the country. I hope and wish that we'll be in power, let's be in opposition, let's be here, let's be here, let's keep some issues, especially common suffering out of political debate -- I'm sure we'd like to -- and that's how the environments that position themselves as individuals think and act at the principle level. In other words, this matter of funerals is a matter of funerals in the southeast, in the east. Mr. CHP Group Deputy President has also expressed himself. Funerals are a situation where everyone is generally treated with respect at the principle level, and the necessary ceremony is necessary. The situation in the southeastern part of the event is that the relevant municipalities who need to go to pick up funerals do not do it. By not doing this job, basically, there's an effort to create an agitation through these funerals.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0046par0205	They're shot, shot, how can they go? Shots fired on city personnel.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0045par0206	The goal is to expose their bloody bodies and undermine the state's fight against terrorism in order to prevent burials. Let's see this through. The funerals mentioned in Şırnak have been taken to the slaughterhouse of Şırnak Municipality, not delivered to their families despite the warning of the governorship there, and when their families come to take over, their families have been threatened, pressured...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0047par0209	Please complete your statement, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0045par0210	...a special effort has been made by the terrorist organization to keep the funerals there, and only yesterday could these bodies be buried. There's no way that the government, anywhere, in any way, in dealing with terrorism -- there's reason, there's logic -- everything that could be against itself -- I'm putting aside human norms and so forth -- can't be expected to try to put funerals in public, use them as an element. It's a terrorist organization that uses funerals, doesn't know rules, doesn't know norms and doesn't want to miss any opportunity to support it. Let's see if we can get this straight. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0047par0212	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0048par0213	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0047par0214	We're going on the agenda.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0048par0215	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0049par0216	Mr. President, before we go public, may I have a word?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0047par0217	Just a moment, Mr. Kerestecioglu. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0050par0219	Mr. President, during his Bosnian speech, part of his speech, he made statements in response to my speech... the positioning of the opposition and so on and so forth. If you'll excuse me, sir, I'd like to answer with a few very short sentences right away.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0051par0220	Not at all, sir. Not at all.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0050par0221	It's not? Well, sir, he said he had nothing to do with it. He said we have nothing to say.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0052par0223	If he said it wasn't relevant, it's fine, fine.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0050par0224	Yes, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0052par0225	Mr. Kerestecioglu, I promise you one minute from your position. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0053par0228	Mr. President, first of all, I would like to offer my condolences to all of our people who have been killed by foreign nationals or injured in Istanbul, who are not really here. I just wanted to say that I think that when there was a massacre in Ankara, our state officials were not at that station square at once. Therefore, in the news about Turkey, the whole country is crying. A phrase like this may not be used. Because what we've really been coming to for a long time is a state of funerals, and what we're talking about is that funerals can't be removed because of people being shot at. It's easy to talk from here. All of our congressman friends are in that area, and they're saying it over and over again. And we said over and over again, if you don't believe us, let's all go together, form a commission, and all these suggestions... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the country is being rejected and unfortunately today...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0054par0233	I'll turn on your microphone, finish your words, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0053par0234	I'm finishing it. Thank you. And no matter what party all these research requests come from...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0054par0236	Wait a second, I don't think it's open, there's a technical problem.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0053par0237	Today must be a day of technical difficulties with the opposition.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0054par0238	The system needs regeneration, you see, friends.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0053par0239	Yes, in general, of course, in every way. So, really, the common request for research is now at least one must be accepted in this House because there are so many problems that we have to address. The teachers, especially Balıkesir Dursunbey, are being displaced, they call us at midnight, they have attempts to be lynched, and we leave. So the country has really become either a funeral or people have no guarantees. We're in no good shape. We're supposed to solve these problems together, not by picking on each other. If we're really going to cry about everything, let's cry together and laugh together. Thank you so much for understanding.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0055par0242	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a statement about the retraction of the oral question motion, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2015/269, 6/87. I'd like to withdraw the oral question motion. I'd like to respectfully submit to the proper course of action. The oral question motion has been returned. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. I'll have the motions read separately. In the 2nd place, the parliamentary research motion that I'm going to read will be read over 500 words, but the full text of the motion will be included in the Tutorak Magazine. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In recent days, the Western press, particularly through the official authorities of the Russian Federation, has claimed that illegal oil shipments from ISIS-controlled regions were being made to our country, and the revenue that was acquired was used to finance ISIS's activities. If there are such claims and problems, we would like to submit the need for a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th Amendment to investigate solutions. With all due respect. [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Tekirdağ]] 6) Endangered Ideas [[Mersin]] [[Malatya]] 8) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] 19) Ali Haydar Hakver [[Ankara]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Tunceli]] 22) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] 23) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] On November 24, 2015, after the Turkish Armed Forces shot down the Russian Federation's Su-24 aircraft for violating the Syrian border, the Russian Federation issued a series of sanctions and statements against the Republic of Turkey. One statement was made on 3 December 2015 by Russian Federation Deputy Defence Minister Anatoly Antonov. The story published details on Sputnik's website shows Antonov targeting Turkey with his statements. "We have identified three main routes of the oil trade to Turkey from the regions controlled by ISIS. Turkey is the main consumer of these oils stolen from its legal owners in Syria and Iraq. According to data, Turkey's top political management staff, President Erdoğan and his family were involved in this illegal trade. We've talked about the dangers of dating terrorists many times before. A joint team of Turkish elites and gangs stealing oil from neighbouring countries is working in the region. From thousands of tankers, huge industrial oil is being delivered to Turkey by pipelines. Some of the oil from ISIS-controlled areas is being introduced to Turkey on the domestic market. Part of the oil is being loaded into ships and taken out of Turkey's borders for processing. Turkish President Erdogan and his family have a direct relationship with illegal oil shipments from oil deposits held by ISIS in Syria. In the last week alone, there have been 2,000 militants, over 120 tonnes of military ammunition and about 250 motor flows from Turkey's territory to the ranks of ISIS and El Nusra. According to our reliable intelligence reports, Turkey has been conducting such activities for a long time and regularly." Antonov supports his statements with photographs and video recordings. According to this, the oil in ISIS's hands is being extracted and stored in the deposits in Iraq and Syria; it is being smuggled into Turkey from the Reyhan border through tankers and trucks without any control; tankers and trucks are shipping to refinery and ports in Batman, Fourways and Alexanderun. The images and videos, which appear to have been taken from space at a right angle to the earth, are described as "a satellite image." Russian Federation Deputy Defence Minister Anatoly Antonov has stated that further images and statements will be held in the coming days. The statements made and made by the official authorities of the Russian Federation will put our country face serious international problems. For such reasons, a research commission will reveal many aspects of the events. If the allegations are not true, they will be answered at the highest level, and if they are true, they will be presented with possible solution proposals. In any case, the fact that these allegations have not been investigated will wear our country down even more. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As a social right, we ask that the right of our Constitution to work on Article 49 of our Constitution be opened and requested the opening and demand that the Parliament be opened under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to examine the reasons that have created young unemployment and women unemployment, especially in order to take the necessary measures. 20/11/2015 [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Slap]] [[Edirne]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sivas]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Balıkesir]] 13) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Ali Haydar Hakverdi [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] According to data from Turkey's Statistical Agency in 2015, unemployment remains the most important social problem with both visible and invisible sizes. This problem, particularly among young people, women, poses an intense threat to temporary employees, creating biological, socioeconomic and psychological results that disrupt the entity's structure as individuals, and also disintegrating the sustainable structure of society as a whole. According to Turkey's Unions of Employers (TİSK), TİKİK and İSKUR's report on employment data in April 2015, less than half of the working population in Turkey (26,68,000 people) has the ability to work and earn employment, with more than 31 million and 41,000 people living without it. The increase in employment is losing momentum, and the rate of increase has dropped from 5.7% to 1.7% compared to the same month of the previous year in April 2015. According to this, as of April 2015, the total number of unemployed people identified as 2,811,000 has increased by 9.6 per cent as of a year ago. According to data in these reports, the rate of young employment in particular has been dropping since February 2015 and youth unemployment is constantly rising. The wide-defined unemployment rate for young people (15-24 years) is about 9 points above the official youth unemployment rate of 17 per cent, at 26 per cent. Young women are the hardest living part of the unemployment problem. The annual increase in the number of women unemployed is 17.2 per cent, which is twice the overall average. Only 20,000 of the 106 women demanding employment in the last year have been able to get a job. The unemployment rate for young women has reached 20.5 per cent in the same period of the previous year, with an increase of 4.5 per cent, and the number of unemployed has increased by 85,000. The current macroeconomic data in Turkey show that the growth rate at the end of the year will be well below the planned 4 per cent, at 2.0-2.5 per cent below the forecast in the 2015-2017 Central Future Financial Plan. In Turkey, where only 1 university graduate is needed against the ten-day workforce, it is clear that structural reforms will be delayed, there will be no training planning to provide qualified labour and quality university education, there will be no policies for gender equality in employment, and the weekly work period will be approximately 12 hours long compared to the European Union countries, and the unemployment rate will continue to increase in 2016, depending on the rate of growth. For reasons declared as a social right, as part of the Constitution's 49th Article of the Constitution, as part of its positive task of creating a working environment for the state, as part of its duty to prevent unemployment, especially in order to examine the reasons that created young unemployment and women's unemployment and the necessary measures, we demand and demand that Parliament investigate under the requirements of Articles 104 and 105 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Analyzing the problems of our teachers and teaching profession The 98th and TBMM of the Constitution to investigate, take the necessary precautions. In accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, we demand and demand that Parliament investigate. [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] [[Edirne]] [[Aydın]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Sivas]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] 14) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Ali Haydar Hakverdi [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] The teaching profession is the art of raising the growing generation, the family, the environment, the nation, the state, and the country as always useful, constructive, creative, good people and good citizens. These teachers raise their parents and their people to be happy, to improve their country, to strengthen their state. The future of our nation, our country and our state, economic development, above all, depends on the success of teachers in their professions. Ataturk expected the true salvation of the Turkish nation from teachers, and only teachers are the ones who save the nations for teachers and teachers during the Liberation War and after the republic is established." That's what he said. There are many problems with this basic profession, which guides our children, our country's future, giving them good education, making them strong. According to the 2013-2014 school-year statistics covering the MEB's pre-school, elementary education and secondary education institutions, 17 million 234,452 students are educated, including 883,857 men at 61.592 schools and 8 million 350,595 girls. In all, 832,726 teachers serve in 538,442 classrooms, 392,258 men, 440,468 women. From the 2002 elections when the current government came to power, there were about 350,000 teachers who were not appointed until today. During this period, the teacher's increase remained in the 24 per cent, while police increase was 88 per cent. Teachers have problems in Turkey. The problems of appointment, low wages, working hours, poor working environments, mandatory and free seizures are the beginning of their biggest challenge. Teachers in OECD countries have 1,652 hours a year, 1,840 hours in Turkey. Despite these conditions, teachers' fees are very low. Most of the school teachers in our country with no job guarantees work for minimum wage. No social security, no union. School teachers who work under difficult conditions have problems in a lot of areas until they don't get overtime from severance pay. Teaching in the village is still present and is under very difficult circumstances. The stove and classrooms are still warming up, and outside the stove, they light the turd and stove. The important thing is not even tools are available. The course is still being studied in unified classes. This issue in the teacher's problem is a problem in itself. The situation and problems of the teaching profession are not pleasant for Turkey's future. The problems of the profession can't be solved by celebrating Teacher's Day once a year. These problems need to be resolved quickly, with serious and scientific consideration. It is very important to investigate the issues of our teachers who shape our country's future through appointment problems, low salaries, poor working hours, mandatory and free shifts, and to open a parliamentary search for necessary measures and the removal of victims. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The National Party of Action has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll have the proposal read and processed, and I'll put it to your votes: 13.01.2016 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's Council on Wednesday (January 13, 2016), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I would like to submit our group's following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. "After the general elections of the 2014 districts, significant changes in administrative structure have been implemented," said Bursa MP Kadir Koçdemir and his friends, who we have given to the head of the TBM with 2016/714 points. A parliamentary survey motion, issued on Wednesday (January 13th 2016), aimed at identifying the impacts of local administrations on duty, authority, responsibility, capacity and capacity for service, and the integrity of governance, revealing possible solution proposals, investigating legal regulations and other measures in Turkey and the world, was proposed by reading in the General Assembly (now) on Wednesday (January 13th 2016). I'm going to make a promise to two members of parliament in favor of the National Movement Group's proposal and against it. The first speaker, Kadir Koçdemir, is an MP. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0056par0446	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute your delegation with respect and conversation. I may have miscalculated on my way out, but today, after roll call, we had a member of parliament with a number of 28 to 20 members.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0057par0447	17, 17.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0056par0448	This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This is where it is decided who will rule Turkey, how to govern Turkey, and how to oversee this administration. There were two men, they couldn't get along, they were both sentenced to death; they were asked what they wanted. They go to the first one and ask for his last wish. He says: "I have not lived a good life. I didn't deserve my mother. I want to see my mother for the last time in the eyes of the world and apologize to her. They ask the second prisoner, who is her enemy, what do you want? He says: "He will not see his mother." Now, here, when we talk about the ongoing reform and reforming of the entire population in Turkey, especially in areas where 76 per cent of the population lives -- especially after 2014 -- where the city limits are made into the city's municipal border -- the ruling group in cities, which has made the construction of local governments an inextricable conundrum, will come and decide here on a call for the SMS message that has been sent to them in the past decade, when we have actually deformated the government's proposal for research on the country organization of the government. If we're linking this to democracy, then it's fine. Because one of the shortest definitions of democracy is that democracy is a state of influence in decisions that are affected by decisions. You know, a new era began in Turkey after the 2014 election of local governments. This has created a final ring of changes in the field of local administrations that have not taken into account the experience of both local governments in Turkey and in the world. I was on duty as governor at the time. We haven't seen anyone, including the ruling party MPs and the general council members, have developed an offer in Turkey, including the party agencies, that the municipal borders in 30 counties are the municipality limits. In addition, at meetings here at the Interior Commission, the ruling party MPs could not defend it as if it were their own decisions, but at the request of one person, despite the ruling party, these changes came into effect. But it turned out to be an inextricable mess because, in the sense of the capital city, friends, based on the assumption of uninterrupted housing, the task between the city and the town halls was arranged. Where does the mountain end, where does the Newmahalle start, since we can't determine the sewer, the sewer, the drinking water plant, sir, the firehouse, the slaughterhouse, all these transactions were left to the big city. It's one of Megelelle's most well-known provisions, and when circumstances change, the provisions change. If you give the drinking water in the village of Uzallikochhisar, as if there was an uninterrupted dwelling, it becomes inexhaustible. Today the proper drinking water has not been provided regularly for a month in the Mustafakemalpaşa district of Burma. In Orhangazi, we can't find the person responsible for the unfinished construction of the streets, our citizens can't find the authorities because they can't reach the units that are miles away from them in the new task and authority distribution. Again, in the village of Durak in the Koz tree district of Keles. The village in the villages where our villagers have not touched or touched anyone for centuries is now being sold by major cities for the ethics of money in our western provinces. County municipalities have been transformed into garbage collection units because none of the main areas that I just counted are borough municipal authorities. The municipality is in charge of zoning -- that's limited -- and is in charge of garbage collection. The revenue distribution has again made it impossible for us to establish a proportion between responsibility and possibility, making our major cities outside Istanbul and Kopeeli at a disadvantage. There is a principle in almost every publication in the field of secular governance: the principle we call the subsidiarity is a principle in which we can refer to it as locality, or closeness to the state. According to this principle, as a service principle, the rule must first be carried out by the nearest unit to the citizen. If the closest unit to a citizen is unable to perform this service or perform it effectively, then it must be decided whether the local administration unit at the next level will be able to perform it. The new structure has brought enormous disadvantages to regions, villages, and regions, which are also undermining the population of those who remain far away and have little influence in determining local power. I just told you, democracy is a state of influence on decisions that are affected by decisions. But the rural community, far away, is unable to join the decision-making process in the way it wishes, but if it agrees, it does not have the power to influence the decisions. Again, the changes have put our locals, our locals, through the centuries on the risk of being ruled by social, economic character, culturally-identified staffs. In this regard, a review of the construction of local administrations is required to be investigated by our Grand Assembly, particularly the changes that took place in 2014, as well as the detection of the problems caused by these changes in implementation, and the construction of local administrations in the 2000s. In short, it is of great importance that local governments are effective, quickly and cheaply fulfilled with an understanding that enriches and diversifies the cultural heritage of the region, in a simple and accountable process that performs a maximum contribution and participation in the area, in accordance with the needs and priorities, and that the residents are effective in creating, making will, making decisions, implementing and auditing processes. In this regard, our Grand Assembly is in great position to investigate the necessary measures, including the analysis of the current structure and the legal arrangements to carry out these objectives. For these reasons, I expect your support in our motion to investigate and in parallel with our law proposal, and I salute you all again on behalf of my group.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0058par0459	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. First speaker against the proposal is Erol Kaya, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Rock. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0059par0464	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the National Movement Party's motion to investigate. I've just listened to our speaker, and we can see that when we look at the motion, we can also see that there is no consideration for the experiences of Turkey and the world in the MHP research proposal, that there is a problem with the duties, authority and responsibilities of the local administration, that the collection of management in its place has been left aside, that the state of the administration and its duties are ended, that the property of the city's municipalities has been moved to borders, and that this is a very serious problem, and that the closure of the sub-2000 areas is a problem, and that the public resources of the public resources are sometimes used to disrupt the peace. Mr. President, I'd like to first share with you a few data on the history of municipalism in Turkey. The experience of local governments in our country began in 1858, with the republic continuing a disciplined process of local governments in 1930 with Law 1580. In 1984, Metropolitan City Law 3030 was established, and the process for a new management model began in Turkey. In 2004, the process evolved into a new era of reform, including the City Law and the Metropolitan Municipality Law, the Law on Special Administrations, the Law on the transfer of funds to municipalities, and an arrangement on all laws of local administrations. In short, we're talking about an eighty-five-year historical process if we take it from the Ottoman Republic for a hundred and fifty years about our municipal experience. What do we see when we look carefully at this historic process? Vote for us in the past, if you vote for us, we'll make you a district, we'll make you a province, we'll make you a province. We'll all remember your words and banners. In this unfortunate period, we'll make a city with slogans starting from 300. Our municipalities have started from 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 3,000, and finally up to 3.225 municipalities. I want to stress in particular that this painting has brought the bankruptcy of Turkish municipalism, and it is possible that we can see this bankruptcy together when we look at it financially.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0060par0469	There are 36,500 municipalities in France, President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0061par0470	We're going to make the army a great city. You're the one who called it, carrying the population.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0059par0471	Be patient, be patient. Your governor has just said: "Where did it come from, we don't understand who decided that the property of 30 city municipalities should be on the borders?" I wonder why our governor doesn't know how many years it's been since the estate of the city and the capital lived on the borders. I'm surprised. Let's be patient. Now, dear friends, during the AK PARTI period, Turkey would have to liquidate a structure that paid only the mayor and staff, especially our bankrupt municipalities, which couldn't pay the staff's salary, and that was not something that had just been invented. When we look at the world's experiences, we want to be united by applying for central management of municipalities in Denmark, to become stronger. We are all witnesses to the struggle to build strong municipalities by combining the municipalities in Europe in this way, by reducing the number of municipalities in this way. 3,225 municipalities have now been moved to the level of 1,390. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to first express that I find the MHP motion sincere, but I'd like to share with you a little bit about solution proposals. When we look at the experiences of the establishment of the city municipalities in 2014, let me say that we face two basic problems, a new process. First of all, we see an arrangement for the transfer of funds to our capital city municipalities, and particularly the central administration has made serious arrangements for the transfer of funds to our major cities and municipalities. What is the problem? If we look at it, you have closed 1,500 municipalities, and the municipal municipalities needed to take over their duties and powers, so we can say that there has been problems with water, with heavy waste, with taking over basic services related to waste water, or that they have not been operated with health or speed. Second, we see that the resources transferred from the centre are not used or used in some municipalities. So, have our municipalities narrowed down in terms of resources? I want to share two data: in 2013, the total budget of local governments is 81 billion, and in 2014 we see that this income is 86 billion, so if we compare our local governments to 2013 and 2014, we see that there are about 5 billion dollars of additional resources. Dear lawmakers, I would like to point out a few issues: one of the problems -- this is a painting that has not been seen in Turkish municipal history -- has brought up a number of important problems with municipalities in the past few days. What is the financial problem with our municipalities? This painting is an important painting of Turkish political history and Turkish municipal history. I'd like to mention these municipalities by name. Diyarbakir, Van, Mardin, Siirt, Batman, Şırnak Municipality's income in 2014 is $1 billion,120 million,357 thousand, while the cost of 2014 is 750 million,634,000. So it turns out that these six municipalities kept $360,722,000 in their safe, but they didn't serve or lack it. Mardin could invest 17 times more than its investment in the 74m-dollar service it did not spend. It was possible for Diyarbakır City to double its current investments with 77 million liras, which it did not spend. Van City could have made nine times his investments with 155 million liras he didn't spend. When we look at Şırnak City Hall, there is a much more interesting painting. The average investments of the municipal municipalities in Turkey are 54 per cent, which is 1.7 per cent in Şırnak, whereas the amount he kept in his safe deposit box could have been more than 13 times the amount he spent on investment. In the region, when the government has done roads and sites in the past, it is now impossible to accept a concept of municipalism that has not been served, even though more than 90 per cent of the source has gone from the centre. Now, the valued MPs, the last, or rather, a politician today, have made a statement: "Sir, our Mardin municipality's staff spending in 2014 is not 62 per cent, but 30.5 per cent." I would like to share something with you now. I'm a former mayor, I've been mayor for fifteen years, and I'm asking all of our NGOs, our MPs, our academics, our councilmen, and the mayor of our city: No matter what website you go on, you see the budget of that municipality, you see the exact account, you see the operational report, you see the strategic plan, you have to see it. I'm in...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0062par0479	How are we going to see the subsidiaries?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0059par0480	Sir, please, let's take care of the municipalities, the others, and hopefully we'll talk about them.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0062par0481	The municipalities are starting companies, subsidiaries.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0059par0482	Now, you see, I've received from the Internet decree 91 of Mardin Municipality 15/5/2015, so there's no need to try too hard. I'd like to share with you the information on this decision. Let me tell you this: why don't you talk about the budgets of 2015, the activity reports will come in April according to the City's Law, and the figures related to these budgets will come in May. In other words, we will only see the 2015 budgets of our municipality in Turkey, which is around 1,400. But only in April and May 2016. So we can only talk about 2014 data. In this decision, the official decision states that their income is 137 million, 290,556 lira 92 cents, and their expenses are 63,61,275 lira 87 cents. This document states that 96 per cent of the city's revenues have gone from the centre -- 96.7 per cent -- have not spent 74 million liras. The staff spending is 39 million, 446,9 liras, which is 62.6 percent of the budget. The urban average in Turkey is 11.7%. Guys, this is unacceptable. Dear friends, on one side you will wait for citizen service, and on the other side you will keep money in your safe. To explain this...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0063par0484	Send this document to the Prime Minister. Mr. Orator, your Prime Minister says...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0059par0485	Please be comfortable, come in and you'll see the Internet.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0063par0486	Your prime minister says this money goes to the organization. You say it's in the town. You say it's in the town. You say it's in the town. You say it's in the town. He says it's in the general president's organization. Tell me where the money is.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0059par0487	Nusaybin, Artuklu, Mazıdağı, Derik, Omarli are expecting services from you and municipalities. If these municipalities don't produce services, let them leave, let them do it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0063par0488	Send it to your Prime Minister, send it to the palace, send this document, tell him where the money is.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0059par0489	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to collect my words. The issues that have caused our municipalities to fail are in the EC PARTY's 2015 election statement, and our calendars for election declarations have already been announced, and the law on reorganising the financial resources of the city's municipality needs to be organised, task, authority and responsibilities will come to the Parliament quickly, hopefully. Therefore, I respectfully salute your delegation, saying that we are against the MHP motion, which is well-intentioned.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0064par0491	But isn't that a contradiction? You mean well, but you're against it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0065par0492	Thank you, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0066par0493	There's an accusation of ignorance attributed to me, and I'd like to correct it, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0065par0494	What kind of accusation?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0066par0495	How could he not have known that he was the governor of Istanbul, when he had been the governor of the province?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0065par0496	Just a second; I'll give you my word now. Dear lawmakers, I will meet Mr. Koçdemir's request for a statement due to bullying, but I need to make a general statement regarding bullying. A different opinion of the government, the commission, the political party group or lawmakers, can and will respond to it, according to the 69th Article of the Civil Code, titled the Right to Explain. This is the most natural right of our MPs, political party groups, the Commission, and the government, but we have a method of reminding them of this: it is useful to remind them that they have a different opinion or that they have a different opinion on him than they have, or that they have a view that they have. Mr. Koçdemir explained this now, but I see practices like this from time to time: for example, Mr. President, as you can see, he has teased me, and I demand word. It is not true. It's not enough for me to see this, it's also necessary for this request to be passed down together and learned by the General Assembly. This statement, Mr. Koçdemir, is not directed at you, but simply because of your taunting, I felt the need for a general explanation. Here, I give you my word for two minutes for bullying. Please complete your remarks in a manner that does not involve any further bullying.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0067par0504	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to thank the court for believing in our sincerity and goodwill and for stating that. Of course, like everyone in Turkey, I know that the city limits of Istanbul and the City Hall are the city limits, and I also know that as someone who's been head of office for many years, vice-president of the Mahalli Administrations, as well as a part of the writing of those texts. But it has to be accepted that the practice, which we call "the whole city" began in 2014, in terms of the 28th part of the 30th century. I meant for this to be expanded. Secondly, I'd like to present that discrepancy in the state's private administration example. The province's private administration was the backbone of the rural organisation of the public administration in 2004, in the Public Administration Basic Reform. So much so that the culture manager, the health manager, the national education director, would be the director of the private administration, not the ministries, all the important units, all the powers had been transferred to the state's private administration, but not too long after ten years, you're removing the legal identities of the units -- which you consider so important and functioned -- as I've said -- in the 30 provinces of the population -- in which 76 per cent of the population lived. I wanted to express some consistency in that regard. The reduction of the number of administrative units is a serious, accurate practice in Northern Europe, and my master's thesis, but let me just say it took 30 years to reduce the number of districts and districts in Germany, to be discussed, to be negotiated, to be negotiated, to be negotiated, to be made by text from somewhere. I thank you again, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0068par0509	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. In favour of the proposal, the second speaker is Mustafa Akadil, Antalya MP. Here you are, Mr. Akadun.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0069par0516	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement in order to protect the academics, who, unfortunately, were deeply humiliated by our President, who were first put on the agenda as a declaration of the academies when I started my remarks. Mr. Yekta Saraç, our head of staff -- according to news that I've been told -- will be done about these academics. As a former chancellor, I condemn and condemn Mr. SEC President. To oppose a declaration of 1,128 academics in the world -- 400 or so of them from abroad -- that includes very valuable academics such as Noam Choumsky -- is the same thing as opposing science. To oppose art can also be assessed in this regard. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] I'm not going to argue with you, so I'll get back to it. Dear friends, of course I have made a commitment to the local government bill and its impropriety. First, I'm going to talk to you about the practicality of the work -- unlike the other speakers -- they told you a little bit about the theory of the job. I'm a friend of yours who's been mayor of the city for five years. Why was Law 6360 brought in three and a half or four years ago? Now, I'm telling my friends from the AKP, please be frank: since 1839, there has been a tradition in this country about local governance, there has been a rule, there has been laws, there has been practice. What was the point of suddenly destroying a 177-year-old team, a tradition? I want to give you the political motive behind this. As it is known, the vote of the Republican People's Party in rural areas of public research throughout Turkey is low, but the vote of the Republican People's Party will rise when the read-out rate rises or the socioeconomic level rises.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0070par0521	That's an ugly analogy.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0069par0522	Now, I'm coming, look, I'll explain with examples. Please don't pick on me! The account is this: Zat, who lost his election as Mayor of Antalya Metropolitan in 2009, is AKP's deputy vice-president at one point, 6 points behind -- I say for the province of Antalya -- how do you close this 6 points? I'll explain...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0071par0524	He buried you in a trunk? Who buried you in the trunk? Watch out for the gauntlet!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0069par0525	Patience Osman Bey, listen to me. I'm explaining it, I'm explaining it with examples.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0071par0526	Okay, but he buried you in a crate in March!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0069par0527	Now, then we have to figure out a way to get the votes in the countryside.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0072par0528	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0069par0529	Listen patiently.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0073par0530	He's buried you in a trunk, you can't get out yet! Don't tease me!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0069par0531	I'll get to that, Mr. Osman. I'll be right there. As a result, there were accounts for taking cities such as the Army, Eskişehir, Mersin, Antalya, from the Republican People's Party; and for taking cities such as Balıkesir, Manisa. Some of them have succeeded. In the army, Antalya, Mersin have lost the Republican People's Party elections, unfortunately in Eskişehir, but in parliament, the AKP has seized the majority of its parliamentary membership. It's that simple, that's all. Now, I'm going to give you this example: it's one and a half o'clock on election night, and the polls in Antalya are 92 per cent, and the Republican People's Party is far ahead, just as it was in Ankara, and in Üsküdar. Somehow, word has come from the courthouse that something is going on. I'm going to the courthouse myself, where a deputy who was then honored by the State Department's office is manipulating. I can see it in front of the judge, with his hands bent down, and somehow after an hour and a half of manipulation, Kerez's votes are being manipulated by the Kerez County vote.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0074par0534	So what's going on?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0069par0535	Do you know how this is organized?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0075par0536	What's done?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0069par0537	I answer, look, do you know how it's organized?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0076par0538	There's a seal, there's a compass, what do you do?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0069par0539	A parliamentary member in charge of the polling results of the Republican People's Party, Kepez, is being bought and transferred to AKP the following day.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0076par0540	After you lose the election, you have two solutions: to humiliate the people, to seek deceit, nothing else.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0069par0541	I insist, let the vote of Kepez be re-counted.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0076par0542	Wherever you lose an election, you insult the people, you claim to cheat, there's nothing else you can do; work, brother.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0069par0543	If you've got the heart, you've got the count again and something else being done.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0076par0544	You have a decisive verdict.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0077par0545	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0069par0546	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0077par0547	Mr. Aka morning, one moment, sir. Congressmans, Mr. Akadun is speaking on the stand. If you have objections, you will have your word. You will answer under the Civil Code. We have no such procedure.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0078par0549	What's a convicted man talking about?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0077par0550	Please, I beg you...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0078par0551	He's a convicted felon.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0079par0552	I'll give you my name, Hope Doğan...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0078par0553	He's a convicted felon from City Hall.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0080par0554	Congressman, we don't have that kind of procedure, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0078par0555	Copy that.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0080par0556	Go ahead, Mr. Akaydun.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0081par0557	The next day, unfortunately, a CHP governor named Umut Doğan is being transferred to the Justice and Development Party. I've been saying this for two years, but an order has been issued from one upper center, and the votes of Antalia will not be counted again. The Supreme Election Board has been instructed to do so, but it is not possible to prove it. That's the gist of it, fellas. Now I'm going to tell you what this law has taken from Turkey. For one thing, a tradition that has dominated since 1839 has been destroyed, the culture of the village has been destroyed. The villager today faces poverty, poverty, poverty, a migration to the cities, and a number of municipalities in Turkey has been shut down by close to 1,600. Are there any examples of this in the world? I do. But there are 38,000 municipalities like France, because localization means democraticization, precious friends, democratic culture. Unfortunately, this democracy culture is slowly being destroyed in Turkey. A serious migration has begun from the village to the city. And yet, our peasant citizens are not aware of the oasis. Look, I'm going to give you an example: a peasant with one Holstein cow, that cow's drinking price is going to go up to $10 a month three years from now, if he has 10 cows, guys. The peasant isn't up against it yet. The villager, if he wants to put a nail in his house, he's going to go to the local manager, he's going to pay taxes on the development, he's going to pay taxes on the local manager, he's going to take it back to the village as it used to be, he's going to face taxes on the real way, not taxes on the real way. So the village is a system that has destroyed its life radically, and at this rate, it looks like 75 per cent of Turkey's people are urban, but unfortunately I hear you have another plan. You want to turn 51 cities into a whole city. You can destroy the village population on paper, you can do it, but this country, this village, this community, the injustice you've done to this community will be too great. Istanbul has been given examples of Alexei by valuable speakers. Twenty years of practice, we all know, but the boundaries of the provinces are now a city. Is there another example of this in Turkey? How many cities are in Turkey, as large as Konya, Van, Erzurum, Antalya? How are you going to run these cities, I ask you? Antalya has an area of 21,000 square kilometers, population of 2 million, average of one European state. There's a coast of 642 kilometers. The bird's flight is 400km long, and Antalya is two and a half times the total of Absalom and Istanbul, two and a half times the distance from east to west. You can't rule, fellas. The AKP speaker said: "There is an increase in revenues. I tell you my budget when I left Antalya Metropolitan Municipality in 2014: $930m, dollars dry, roughly $500 million. Today's budget is 1.5 billion Turkish liras, and I'll say it in dollars and dollars, that's $500 million. Antalya Grand City has 15 times the size of the city, it can't reach them. Look, I'm telling you, the AKP Mayor doesn't have one sane investment in two years. His only investment is the freeways that the highways didn't do in my day, and the mayor is making signs. These roads will do you good. It's an investment of the government, not the investment of the Metropolitan Municipality, friends. The municipality of Manavgat is moaning today. The revenues of Manavgat Municipality have dropped by more than 50 per cent. Because it's run by partisans, your cities, your cities. He's got every street he can get his own money on. The proceeds from the old closed-down towns are all written in Manavgat City, and I'm telling you, like Side, very important cities like the Shield, the summer population of these people are struggling with 100,000 mosquitoes. I'll tell you something else, the fire department isn't enough, Antalya. In the last six months, more than ten people burned to death in their homes, and burned to death in their homes. Two years ago in Antalya, a forest fire broke out in the Adrasan area, and three hotels and restaurants soon burned down because the Metropolitan City Fire Department had not made it there. It's all in the statistics. Friends, these are a purely political manipulation of the AKP. It has nothing to do with local governance. It has nothing to do with the European Convention on Autonomity. Local government, huh?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0082par0569	The Antalian knows exactly what you're doing. You didn't hit a nail.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0081par0570	Samani, we'll talk about this. Don't pick on me.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0083par0571	Hodja, why don't you buy five fire trucks instead of a festival?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0081par0572	Dear friends...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0083par0573	Teacher, if you bought five fire trucks instead of a festival, you'd be the president.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0084par0574	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0083par0575	Take five fire trucks, you've been president. I swear to God!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0084par0576	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, why don't you listen quietly? Please, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0083par0577	Instead of five festivals, buy five fire trucks.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0084par0578	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0085par0579	Guys, I got Antalya the fire department, set up 10 fire stations.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0084par0581	Mr. Akadun...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0085par0582	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0084par0583	I'll give you two minutes, sir, considering the loss of your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0085par0585	I've bought enough fire departments and enough buses. But you passed that law, and I had 10 fire stations, and I was the mayor of Turkey's fastest fire.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0086par0586	Yes, the people of Antalya appreciated it, Hajji!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0085par0587	Seven to ten minutes, because after seven minutes, it's time for the fire department to step in. You know what? Our ATSO president, David Çetin, his house burned down, burned down, burned down last week; the fire department didn't make it, my friends. It's in the papers. Ask him if you want his phone. In the central districts of Antalya, Muratpaşa, Kepez, Manavgat, Çomaklı, because the fire department couldn't make it. Today, the number of stations that Antalya needs is 150. I'm talking to scientific figures, Mr. Osman Bey. I don't make up my mind like you do.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0087par0588	Oh, wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0085par0589	I've done 10 of these, and from seven to ten minutes to all the fire sites... until two years ago, Antalya's Metropolitan City fire squad received awards, international awards, they could reach the fire scenes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0088par0590	How much did you leave? How much did you leave?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0085par0591	That's the idea of the whole city that you brought in. Today the mayor of Manavgat is moaning. Manavgat can't provide a solution to any of his facilities. Sir, what is it? These towns don't have any money. If they come to help, they'll make the wastewater facilities better. Give the city of Belde the resources necessary, and he'll do what he has to do.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0088par0592	Five years of wrecking literature, five years of nothing else.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0085par0593	Look, I'm telling you, Manavgat City's monthly expenses are $4 million, right now the state's contribution is $3.6 million a month, $400,000 a month in Manavgat City. How are you going to fix this partisanism? You guys gonna lock down Manavgat City Hall?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0089par0594	We're here to open it, Hajji. We're not here to lock it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0085par0595	If you lock up Manavgat City Hall, will you get anything? Can you do better service? Since the City of Alanya is not from your party today, the inim moans in Antalya, especially villages and counties... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you can't see the city's investments in any way that connects to each other because they used to be made by the city general council, and now they're all ruined.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0090par0599	They do scrap literature like you. The AK PARTY municipalities are working, they're doing debris literature.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0085par0600	I give you all my love, my respect.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0091par0602	Thank you, Mr. Akadun.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0092par0603	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0091par0604	Mr. Cakir, I'm listening, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0092par0605	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Akalyn pointed out the municipal elections of Kepez, where the situation changed with the late-night operation. I'd like to answer both the correcting and the bullying.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0091par0606	If you're treating this as teasing, who are you picking on, Mr. Cakey?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0092par0607	To us, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0091par0608	Your party or the government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0093par0609	Sir, he claims we've been manipulating him!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0091par0610	One second, sir, I'm listening to the deputy president of the group, why are you coming between us? I just made a general statement, please.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0094par0611	To our party, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0091par0612	You're treating it as a taunt for your party group. Are you going to speak, Mr. Cakir?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0094par0614	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0091par0615	Here you go, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0094par0620	Mr. President, thank you. We listened to Mr. Akaydın's speech. Of course, Mr. Akadun Kepez may be critical of what the municipality of Kepez has done; he did well to say that he did not do so, but after nearly two years of an election, after nearly two years, the election is incontrovertible and unconcerned with the fact that the AK PARTI is saying that the AK PARTI has won, in a way, indiscriminately, incompatible, unexplainable. Because we all have to admit that we can carry any kind of conviction, the way to object is clear; you object to the county election board, you object to the county election board, you don't, you object to the Supreme Election Board, and if you finally have a problem, if there is a problem, if there is a problem, then it's a problem, and if there is a hierarchy, then it's being corrected by these institutions, in turn, by these institutions. It's all done, done, done, done, done, two years later, a mayor and a mayor, so it's a shame to discuss an election, the legitimacy of the election, his legality, legality, if you ask me. Because now this mayor has been working here for two years, producing services. All those people, all those people who voted for him, all those people who voted for that party, not just for those who voted for that party, but for those who voted for other parties, after the mayors were elected, that's an insult to our president. I mean, really, a friend of ours with local management experience, like Mr. Akadun, we expect our teacher to fix it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0095par0623	Thank you, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0096par0624	Mr. President... Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0095par0626	Mr. Sky, one moment, sir... I'm listening, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0097par0628	Mr. President, you don't know anything about this, you don't know anything about it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0098par0629	I didn't say that, you wouldn't understand. I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0097par0630	That's why I want to fix it. My speech is based on information, you throw it away. He said, "I want to fix it."
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0098par0631	No, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0099par0632	Mr. Bak, I've seen some bullying against the group from Mr. Akadun's speech, and I've promised Mr. Çakır for him.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0100par0633	Mr. Bak has been picking on Mustafa Akadün.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0101par0634	No, he said to me, "Osman, you don't know about this...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0102par0635	Osman, I said I love you very much.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0101par0636	Yeah, she loves me, and I love her, but I don't...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0103par0637	Here you go, Mr. Bak. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please complete your promises in a manner that will not be challenged by a new taunt. Mr. Look, one second, sir, before you start your conversation, I'd like to propose something. Congressmans, I would like to ask you not to make an effort to assist a member of our parliament when it comes to bullying. That doesn't make it easy for the Deputy Speaker, it makes it hard. Here you go, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0104par0644	Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, our teacher just, indeed, gave a nice speech explaining why he lost the election in Antalya, and we thank him. At the entrance, he stated that the AK PARTY had won the elections, including the laws brought to him, including the villages and the places in which the CHP was nominated. Look, first of all, if you say something like that, he'll bury you in the trunk, and bury you in the trunk.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0105par0647	Did we? What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0106par0648	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0104par0649	Look, we've just said that they have low levels of education, they don't understand. Those with high levels of education vote for the Republican People's Party, and they do this... Look, don't use them.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0105par0650	I didn't say that, Mayor, I want your word.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0106par0651	Did you hear that? Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0104par0652	It's in the records.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0105par0653	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0104par0654	He just told me.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0105par0655	No.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0104par0656	Look, don't use these. Change tactics, don't use them. Secondly, I have stated that you served there, and if you worked well, the Anthalians would have chosen you again.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0105par0658	I noticed it downtown.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0104par0659	And there's the number of MPs in the election. You did your duty, Hajji, don't do it. Work, work.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0105par0660	We're working, we're working.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0104par0661	If you work, this nation will appreciate it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0107par0662	Didn't you study on June 7th?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0104par0663	Travel the villages, go there, embrace the citizen, don't look from above. Look, during the AK PARTY, he always buried it in the trunk. There's a big difference between us, you have to work hard, you have to improve your condition, you have to go to the villages, you have to embrace the citizen. You have to work hard for Antalya, you have to serve instead of the festival, you have to work hard, or she'll bury you in the trunk. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0108par0667	Osman, don't you know anything but the chest? Is it always your life?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0109par0668	Thank you, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0110par0669	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0109par0670	Mr. Sky, I'm listening, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0110par0671	Sir, Mr. Speaker, the speaker has created an argument with constant rhetoric when speaking to him on the stand, and in the end, because of his taunting promises, this nation will bury you in the chest. He has made a statement to the Republican People's Party. Also, I'd like to make an assessment of the speech that the member of the group has made to our member of the group, who's taking a stand for bullying. In particular, they bury you in the chest. I want to make a promise of taunting you by taking your word for it as a taunt.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0111par0673	I told you about the teacher; the teacher lost, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0112par0674	Mr. Bak, I promise you, Mr. Gök, because of the bullying that you said Mr. Bak had done to the Republican People's Party Group. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0113par0677	Mr. President, esteemed MPs, of course it's natural to have discussions when various issues are being discussed in this House. We have always respected all elections in Turkey with respect for crossing legal routes. The men who scratched your belly, or any of the other words that you just spoke of, do not belong to the Republican People's Party. If the speaker can prove it, I'm prepared to do it from here; for once, that's how you need to know.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0114par0678	Let's take a look at the report.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0113par0679	But, of course, it is a natural right for everyone to make comparisons that are acceptable to the alliance when Turkey's development index, reading level, or other issues are expressed; for one thing, it is useful to understand that. Burying them in crates, burying them, that's just temporary, relativistic concepts. We've always defended democracy from the polls, and we've always respected it. In this regard, the late Ismet Inönu has brought the multi-party political life ahead of Turkey. (CHP clapping in rows) Let's get democracy out of the trunks. In this regard, we should all share a common denominator by absorbing democracy in Turkey. I'd like to contribute a few words to the words of my dear friend, the AKP group's deputy leader, just now. Many elections have always been discussed in Turkey. You remember, after June 7th, when we went to November 1st, the most argument we had was that the votes in the east and the southeast were not well-used and the crates were carried. I mean, I'll remind you of that. As a matter of fact, there have been demands, and the Supreme Election Board has rejected them. Naturally, it's everyone's right to doubt the election, and you've taken it. I mean, I'm saying it's wrong to tease other groups because of one right you've used. On November 1st, we all lived together. My respects.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0115par0683	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0116par0684	Mr. President, I'd like to exercise my right to answer Osman Bey.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0117par0685	I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0115par0686	On what grounds, Mr. Akadun?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0116par0687	He teased me, I mean, he's got the word "bidon head."
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0115par0688	No, no.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0118par0689	No, no, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0116par0690	Or maybe I accused him of being stupid.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0118par0691	No, I didn't say that. He already answered.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0119par0692	Mr. Akaydın has made the necessary statement regarding the sentence "Bidon head." However...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0116par0693	I haven't insulted anyone, I've chosen my words very well.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0118par0694	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0116par0695	And at the center of Antalya, I noticed the AKP. It's different if they didn't manipulate the results in Kepez.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0118par0696	Look, he's saying that again.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0116par0697	...there's gonna be a difference in the big city.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0120par0698	Well, thank you, Mr. Akadun, your words have been filed. Ahmet Yıldırım is the second speaker against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0121par0706	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valuable MPs, yes, we're going through the days when the process of decentralisations in Turkey has been tested by democracy. It's becoming more and more centralized... [[Noises]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0122par0710	Congressmans, yes, let's hear it calmly, Mr. Yıldırım. You go ahead, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0121par0712	Thank you, Mr. President. In particular, I would like to read some sentences about local governments, written about local governments, in accordance with the June 7th and November 1st elections, before the March 30th 2014 local elections, and by AKP's declaration of elections, and by the 64th Government Programme of Governments, he wrote some sentences about local governments, which he enjoyed: we will restructure relations between central administration and local governments, in line with the requirements of autonomy of the European Local Governments. We pledge that the central and local governments complement each other and that we will position our citizens more effectively in the process of decentralisation. It is based on a healthy co-operation and co-ordination between central administration and local governments, and we believe that local governments should be responsible for the presentation of all local services. By developing the administrative and financial capacity of local governments, we predict fast, efficient work as the nearest, most sensitive service units to local demands. We'll hand over cultural facilities in the sports field of local governments, such as the library, cultural center and museums, to local governments, and leave their administrations to local governments. In this regard, we will continue legal and institutional regulations aimed at strengthening local governments. Health, education, culture, social aid, tourism, environment, village services, agriculture, animalism, development, transport services will increase the activities of local governments. We're going to develop measures to increase resources in major cities and district municipalities, and we're going to put city councils in a more active position. The AKP itself says a number of other issues, so you say that this political power has prepared election declarations to do the exact opposite of what they promised. We've heard more than enough in the last two months by political power, as opposed to election statements. Here, political power, particularly the Prime Minister and President, makes assessments, not through HDPli, DBP, but through whom the Kurdish political movement is spoken, rather than by the people. Here, especially in the last two months, it has not been limited to the dirty alliance and the war massacres that the palace and the AKP have formed with deep powers. At the same time, an understanding has been developed that prevents Kurdish people and Kurdish cities from breathing as a vital task. In the process of burning war and slaughter today, the political genocide operations carried out under the name ▪KCK (KCK), especially with the alliance of political power with other forces. The DBP co-chairs and majority of members of parliament have been arrested, removed from office, elected by the votes of hundreds of thousands, representing the will of the people. As of today, the number of arrested co-chairs is 18. The number of co-chairs removed from the post is 25. Along with co-chairs who are under probation and have a search warrant for him, this number reaches much higher numbers. Local executives of Kurdish cities, which the Prime Minister and the President have been trying to intimidate for the past month, have already been deposed and arrested for months by the execution of these threats personally. Thus, even if it remains in the shadow of the current burning slaughter agenda, the political genocide operations are part of this total war, and its name is not part of a specific operation, although it is not part of a specific operation, the next table already shows that the KCK operations are not over, but are continuing with dirty alliances. Other than that, I would like to point out a few issues in the AKP's electoral commitments and the 64th government programme, particularly to ask concrete questions about commitments under relevant topics above, over the restrictions of DBP municipalities. They said, "We will arrange to increase local revenues of the financial administrations." Today's threats are hanging on Kurdish cities and municipalities like Damocles' sword. The meeting and working systems of the city councils, which are part of the government programme, will be reviewed and more competent and functional. The administrative and financial capacities of local governments will be improved, especially as the fastest and most sensitive service units for citizens and local demands. Before a month from a government programme called a government programme, trustee appointments are threatened by further dismissals and prisons. If anyone who understands and follows a little bit of recent political history knows that HDP and DBP politicians have not been arrested, not suspended, but tested by death. Your threats are as meaningless and naive as they come. Speaking on behalf of the AKP before me, the speaker has given false, twisted information that he may have been related to Mardin Municipality. On March 30, 2014, when we assumed office in Mardin City, the chair was seized and taken away by the court. The seats are for the mayor of the AKP...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0123par0721	There's no such thing, there's no way. City property can't be repossessed, you should know that. Public goods are not foreclosed.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0121par0722	In particular, 150 million liras were poured into debt; they could not pay wages, they could not pay workers, they could not pay employees. Again, I would like to point out a few issues to your distortions over the numbers: Your Prime Minister says that there is 74 million dollars in the municipal vault of the city of Gadin. Are you lying or is the Prime Minister lying? (Applause from HDP rows) Which one of you is right? So, if money is being transferred to the organisation, how did the AKP's 150 trillion debt end? How did this municipality get $74 million plus money? Infrastructure services, upper-structure services, the environment, the park construction, the services that have increased your period by fercharging and increasing money... if you don't eat it, if you don't steal it, if you don't corrupt it, the money goes up like this. A city doesn't go down in debt, and the president doesn't lose by impounding the office. I'd like to point out that we're dealing with a reality like this. Again, I'd like to say to the entire General Assembly: Look, every one of our municipalities often passes inspection, and we're not bothered by it at all. We want more inspections, more inspections because this is our acquittal, our honor card. Look, the latest inspection is on September 17, 2015, property inspector Erhan Karakaya, Süleyman Yıldırım. Page 68, page 68 of the inspection report, and after my speech, I'll give it to you and examine it. What's he saying? In 2014, there was only 24 per cent of staff costs, staff costs, in total expenses in Mardin City.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0124par0725	Are there service purchases in it, service purchases?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0121par0726	The same inspection reports say, look, the property inspector says that in the first nine months of the 2015, there is only 14 per cent of staff costs. It includes the remaining debts of the AKP era. No employee in Mardin City today will receive from the municipality. The ten-year loans for staff during the AKP period have been paid, the municipality has moved to 74m euros plus, and you can only do that by paying 14 per cent of your 24 per cent budget in 2015. There's only one way, it's simple; you don't steal, you don't beat, you don't corrupt, you don't corrupt the tender. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0125par0729	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0126par0730	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0125par0731	Mr. Cakir...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0126par0732	Mr. President, thank you. In his speech, our Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) speaker stated that our fellow speaker from the EC PARTI has clearly lied -- I made a clear note of it -- that he twisted it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0127par0734	I've never used PARTI, I've spoken of political power, and the government must answer.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0126par0735	This is an open taunt, and I want to speak according to 69. If you find it appropriate, Erol Kaya will speak to our friend.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0128par0736	So, Mr. Kaya would like to express that Mr. Yıldırım is being bullied because of his speech. I assume you're an interpreter for Mr. Rock, Mr. Cakey.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0126par0737	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0128par0738	Here you go, Mr. Rock. I'll give you two minutes. Please complete your words in a manner that does not challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0129par0743	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, of course, if it were the artistic dimension of twisting words or responding to what is said, our friend would get an award. Now, I'll give you the exact figures on Mardin: Mardin City's revenues are 137, its expenses are 63 million, its deposits are 74 million, and its investments are 4 million. Mardin City has debts which amount to 68 per cent of its municipal revenues. Dear friends, we haven't asked you if you have any debts, but since you've asked, I'll tell you that the average debt of all the municipalities in Turkey -- the capitals -- is 99 percent -- is that they owe as much as the income of all the municipalities in Turkey. If you want, I can also give you an example of the cities of Aydın, Mersin, different municipalities, AK PARTY. So, it was too heavy, too bad, you lied here, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0130par0747	The property inspectors' data is here, the property inspectors'. I read the report on the property inspector from September 17, 2015.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0129par0748	Look, I asked you, why don't you take services to Kızıltepe and other districts of Mardin, and keep the money? You want the locals to fall behind by keeping the money in the safe, not bringing the services? Answer that question, I'm not asking anything else, it's that simple. What do you want to do by keeping 360 million liras in a safe? Explain, say: "My brother, there is no problem in Mardin, there is no problem in Diyarbakır, there is no problem in Hakkari. The service is over in Şırnak, and we are throwing our money in the vault. Please go and tell people in Hakkari, Şırnak, and I will confuse you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0131par0751	Thank you, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0132par0752	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0131par0753	Mr. Lightning, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0132par0754	He accused me of twisting my words, and I want an answer.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0131par0755	Which twisted it in what way, Mr. Lightning?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0132par0756	In his first sentence, he told me about the distortion championship.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0131par0757	Here you are, Mr. Lightning, and I promise you for two minutes because of the bullying. Please state your words in a manner that does not challenge a new taunt. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0133par0761	Now, if people don't know that Turkey is 81 provinces, and they comment on Mardini, Şırnak, Hakkari, before they see it in their life, they'll be so careless. A daughter-in-law, let's go, let's go, for ten years from the mayor's party of political power, a Mardin city reality that's turned into a wreck, a traffic problem, a green problem, an infrastructure problem, a municipality that's been served without a penny of poverty, let's go and walk with the naked eye. From 2004-2014, let's see Mardin, and let's see today. Today, look, your Prime Minister says that money was transferred to the organization in 2015. I'm telling you, either you're lying or the PM's lying because of the money. And do you have any idea how investment services have been transformed? I told you about something concrete, named after an inspector of two properties, which was completed on September 17th, Süleyman Yıldırım. Here, on page 68, the staff costs are proportional to the investment costs, and let me share it with you. The property inspector, the one you sent, the one you sent to find out what was missing, the property inspector, found nothing and was exonerated. We're not bothered by that. Don't send it once a year, every month the property inspector waits for our municipalities because even if you work day and night, you won't find corruption once, not once in the DBP municipalities. You're confusing it with your own municipalities. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0134par0765	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I'd like to submit the National Party Party's proposal to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are not accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday 13/1/2016 (now) there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 13 January 2016, Diyarbakır MP Idris Baluken handed over other motions by Diyarbakır MP Idris Baluken (787 rows) in Turkey, which may have been massacred by entering Turkey/or in Turkey, and was proposed to be read in the same date in a combination of ISIS structures and talks on Wednesday (13/1/2016) in order to investigate the massacres carried out by ISIS live bombs. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal and against it, I will make a pledge to two members of parliament. The first word in his favour is Hişyar Özsoy, Bingol MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozsoy. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0135par0785	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, before we get to the point, Mr. Naci Bostancı, deputy leader of the AKP, has made a statement regarding the funerals, accusing municipalities, DBP municipalities do not go to pick up these funerals and manipulate the issue. Mr. Bostanci -- I don't know if it's a tease -- but I've really watched you with incredible surprise. When we talked about Taybet İnan here, which one of you made a noise for seven days? Didn't DBP municipalities leave Taybet İnan to take him and bury him? People who want to buy their own children's funerals at the Human Rights Association in Diyarbakır are on hunger strike for more than ten days now, are municipalities doing this? For God's sake, we're asking you to mislead society and publicly deny... I can't really find words. Take it off, you say: "Yes, we don't systematically bury these funerals for these, these, these reasons. There are funerals waiting at the door in Rojava, and Kobani will not leave them in the municipality, too?" There are funerals waiting in the middle of the street under the snow. Look, if you'd like, outside of this House, this General Assembly, come on, let's show you a lot of images. People are going to pick up the funeral, and look how the soldier, the police, put a bullet in the body, how they spray the body, how they drop the funeral. And among them were some whom We went to as trustees, and We were witnesses of them with Our own eyes. When all this is out in the open... what if I'm actually watching the dimensions of this denial? Let's talk about this -- we've already told you -- let's think about these funerals properly, and let's not bring this up again. So we say to the government: "Get your hands off the dead bodies of the Kurds you killed." Let people bury them however they want to bury them.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0136par0788	It's not the Kurds you killed, it's the terrorists you killed.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0135par0789	There, there, that's logic, that's logic. We just talked here the other day. Yeah, the dead get the better of the dead. Are you a Muslim?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0136par0791	I am Muslim, alhamdulillah.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0135par0792	The dead shall be judged.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0136par0793	We're not talking about the dead, he's being killed alive.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0135par0794	Sure, you mean terror, don't you? That's it. Oh, is that logic or is that logic?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0137par0795	Let's stop talking mutually. Mr. Ozsoy, please address the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0138par0798	I swear, we're doing 90 flips here so we don't have to raise our tone, so that's it, that's the level.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0139par0799	All right, but the people who pulled a gun on the government...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0138par0800	Well, he could have pulled a gun on the government. He has the right to be buried, he has the right to be buried, he has humanity, he has the right to Islam, he has the right to human rights, he has it everywhere. Don't go behind the word terrorist, and don't sit here as a eunuch. We're talking about a 70-year-old woman!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0139par0801	There's no difference between that and that, and that's where you do it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0138par0802	Get out of here! Disrespectful!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0140par0803	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker, sir. Mr. Ozsoy, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0141par0805	He's angry, he'll give up. Never mind, don't talk.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0142par0806	Let's go back to your blackouts. Reyhanlı, in 2013, what happened? Let's have a AKP MP come out, I'll give you my say, come and tell us. One civilian, one soldier, and one police officer were killed in Niğde. What was the result? No. In Diyarbakir, our rally was bombed and five people were killed. Let's start an investigation, see what happens. Parliament: no need to look into Suruç...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0143par0808	He's still on trial.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0142par0809	It goes on and on, so it goes on for five years, ten years, and then it falls off. At the time of the Suruç explosion, I myself gave such a speech in Bingol. They'll probably blame it on us again, this Ankara, Istanbul, which is what it is, Mr. President, in the first statement he made incredibly difficult to express even the name of a clear organization. In our statement at Bingöl, we said the exact same thing about Suruç, yesterday Diyarbakır, today Suruç, tomorrow Ankara, İstanbul. I mentioned these names, and many of the MPs mentioned them. You know why? Because it appears, look, then it comes to Ankara, now it's Istanbul. You didn't allow any of them to be investigated by this Clave. Why?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0144par0811	Who the hell aren't you?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0142par0812	We're congressmen, over there, that Congress, that General Assembly, look, respect this place. We say 550 MPs: look, there's a serious security breach. ISIS can kill anyone at any time in Diyarbakır, Urbana, Ankara, İstanbul. Is it true? Look, he's killing.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0145par0813	It's the same with the PKK, it's the same with the PKK.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0142par0814	We're talking ISIS right now, we'll talk about it. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, we say it kills. The bride, this, this matter... it seems that the government and state institutions are in a state of weakness. Look, it can't be prevented. I mean, wouldn't 100 people die in the human capital and be investigated when this Parliament will work, what are we supposed to do? Are we going to sit here and look at foreign relations agreements on Djibouti? People are dying here, 100 people are dead, 100 people are in Ankara, there are 11 people in Istanbul, 32 in Suruç, 5 in Diyarbakır, we don't know where they're going to explode tomorrow, we don't know how they're going to explode. Let's sit down as Congress, a research commission, it's not that hard, let's spend some time, give some of our time, give some of our resources, see what really happens. If there's no relationship you don't want to cover up, why would you be afraid of it? One of you come here and tell me, "We don't want the research commission for this." I mean, what's the harm? We're really hard to understand. Why, if we had a research commission, investigating these deaths, the massacres, what harm do we have, Congressman? Do we? Who are we hurting?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0146par0817	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0142par0818	Yeah, all right. I'll tell you why. Let me put it this way: so far, all of these massacres have been brought to a press ban, the investigation has been brought to secrecy; the people who are reporting about it, trying to bring it up, they're interfering with a lot of judicial mechanisms, and we don't really know what's going on. If you know, we don't know about the Reyhan, the Niğde, Suruç, Ankara, you'll come and enlighten us here.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0146par0820	You know that.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0142par0821	We don't know.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0146par0822	You know that, I swear.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0142par0823	If we knew, we'd sit here, we'd talk, we'd tell, really.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0146par0824	Believe me, you know.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0142par0825	It's called light, but it's connected. We say: "O bordered crossing inn." It means it's still coming and going. Look, it's out.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0146par0826	Don't, don't, please don't.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0142par0827	Yeah, we're not doing anything, you're doing it. This government is responsible for the safety of the people, am I responsible? This government is responsible for the safety of life.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0146par0828	Hey, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo,
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0142par0829	We say: look, there's a relationship as dark and dirty as the world. Arrivings in Syria and Turkey have been reflected everywhere. They may be wrong, they may be lying, they may not be telling the truth, they may just be telling the government to make it difficult, but it's also the method of exoneration. Ahmet Bey said, municipalities, go ahead and check, not once, not twice, but three times. Look, if you think you're under suspicion, this is an opportunity to expose the situation. Let's sit down, let's see, what really happened? Let's separate right from wrong and share it with the community, and that's it. Finally, Mr. President -- let me point out that we're going to a very dangerous place, and I want to share it with you again -- there's an academic group like this for peace, they've issued a statement, and he said to them, "Well, it's dark."
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0146par0831	He said, "It's all right, it's all right."
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0142par0832	...he also said, "Good morning's manuscript," he said, "It's dark," and he even said, "Here's support for terrorists," blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0146par0833	He said, "My lord, he is a man of light."
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0142par0834	Look, okay, we're talking over 1,100. Dear friends, do you know what happened? Look, it's a government and a government and a sense of power that's constantly clouding our right to get information from all investigations, from decision to secrecy, from the press, from the parliamentary investigations, from the obstruction of investigations... what did they say? They said: "There is slaughter, slaughter, return to the process of peace, and we will support you." That's the essence of it. Look, they're calling these intellectuals the hundredth of Turkey, a mob boss, a convicted mob boss today says: "We're going to kill, we're going to bathe with their blood. We're going to bleed. Look how you encourage a mob leader who's been in prison before."
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0146par0835	It's up to you to tell me about the intellectual.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0142par0836	No, no, they're too much. My signature is on the first text of the Academics for Peace.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0146par0838	You know the intellectual, you know the client.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0142par0839	So look, we're headed for a dark, dangerous place. From these academics... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that if anything happens to anyone, the responsibility is primarily to the President, the media, the NGO and all the institutions that are subject to the government in Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0147par0844	That's a lot of talk, a lot of talk, a lot of talk. You should tell me about the intellectual at some point.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0148par0845	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0149par0847	Mr. President, the valuable speaker has assessed that I have destroyed the reality of funerals.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0148par0848	What kind of sentence, Mr. Bostanci?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0149par0849	The reality that was there was in the opposite direction, and I reversed it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0148par0850	Here you go, Mr. Botanci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I promise you for two minutes, sir, because of the bullying.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0149par0855	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, I'm sure everyone here has the ancient knowledge that everyone should be respectful in front of the dead.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0150par0857	Some of them don't.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0149par0858	I've had calls from HDP MPs who said there was a problem with the passage of the bodies from the Syrian border to Turkey. So I called around to say that 11 funerals were kept waiting, that it couldn't have happened. If the funerals have arrived, it must pass. I've been told that 493 funerals have passed without any problems. All of these funerals have been made the object of political propaganda, or a funeral.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0151par0859	Be wary of God, we didn't bring the funeral of St. Güler. St. Güler. His father went there for two months. He couldn't bring him there.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0149par0860	I mean, a funeral, a ritual based on faith that needs to be shown to a death... beyond respect, is made a material of that provocative narrative of ethnic identityist politics, each taken to different counties and buried in Turkey. Now, we tell these friends about these 11 funerals, if you're going to do it in accordance with the ritual of faith in respect of the dead, then go ahead, but if you're going to make it a material -- which is disrespectful to the dead -- no. Guys, we're talking about respect for the dead.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0152par0861	You go get it, nobody interferes, you go get it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0149par0862	Respect for the dead, hang flags on it, chant slogans and try to get a political story out of it... that's respect?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0153par0863	Look at the funeral of Taybet İnan, be ashamed! Look at the funeral of a 60-year-old woman, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0152par0864	Yeah, you're lying... go get that funeral. You're such a liar!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0154par0865	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0155par0866	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0154par0868	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. The first word against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal is İstanbul MP Haydar Ali Yıldız. Here you go, Mr. Star. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Star, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0156par0876	He still calls it the terrorist funeral!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0157par0877	Do you feel uncomfortable with ISIS, all who have fought against ISIS?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0158par0878	If this politics of death doesn't end, Turkey won't relax, not everyone will be able to...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0156par0879	Let go! You do the politics of death. You kill him and you don't let him be buried.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0159par0880	Mr. President, on behalf of the HDP group proposal...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0160par0881	One moment, Mr. Star, one moment, sir...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0161par0882	No politics over the dead, no one will. Others gave up...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0162par0883	Get out of here! If you had done it... the grave of 47 of Sheikh Said's friends is still unknown. Take it off... take it off... you're Kurd, aren't you? Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0160par0884	Congressmans, Mr. Ozsoy, I beg you, sir... there's a speaker on the stand. Mr. Star, come in, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0163par0886	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I respectfully salute you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0164par0887	He lost everything for her. He's lost everything, everything!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0165par0888	You have no conscience, no conscience!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0164par0889	You've lost everything!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0165par0890	You have no conscience!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0164par0891	You lost everything outside the palace.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0165par0892	You have no conscience!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0164par0893	Yeah, the funeral says...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0165par0894	You have no conscience!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0164par0895	Now let's go get it together!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0165par0896	You're worthless!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0164par0897	No, let's go together now. Let's go to the funeral...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0165par0898	You're worthless, you're like an appliance, an appliance, an appliance!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0164par0899	You're saying it's blocked. He's lying...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0166par0900	You look the whole community in the eye and you lie.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0165par0901	That's a shame! You've become part of a mechanism!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0902	On behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the HDP group proposal, I have made a pledge. On this occasion, yesterday, we condemn the abomination of terror that took place in Istanbul, the city of our civilization, and ask God's mercy for those who have passed away, our condolences and patience for their families. Those who lost their lives were our guests in our country. In our faith in civilization, in our position, in our acceptance, the guest is in our care. There must have been an attack on our trust yesterday. That's why we're sad as a nation. Here, of course, a political party can bring in a group proposal for the agenda. I think we can agree on the purpose of the terrorist act today. The aim of terrorism is to surrender an agenda in our country, disrupt our nation's psychology, divert our energy. We, as the AK PARTI government, made promises on November 1st, called for support at the continuation of our services, and on November 1st, people continue your service, continue your march of civilization, this nation needs you. And we are doing these services step by step here today. We make laws here every day, together, as lawmakers, to keep our promises, our services, so that our nation can get out in the open. So that's where we have to get our energy. Of course, 10 people were killed in the explosion at Sultanahmet. A member of a DEAS terrorist organization identified as Syrian was killed by a live bomb. We now know that there are 11 injured in the hospital, and we know that one of the 17 have been discharged. Of those 11, nine are German nationals, one is Norwegian, and one is Peruvian. Two of the nine German nationals remain in critical condition, one of them has come out of surgery, and two of them have been followed at the highest level. A week before Sultanahmet's attack, 220 people considered a DEAC member were taken into custody. After the incident, another person was taken into custody last night as a result of the investigation. The Syrian live bomb has not been found among the wanted live bombs. In the Turkish Language Foundation's dictionary, the definition of terrorism and terrorism is defined as (e.g., terrorism) and the definition of a terrorist is described as a deterrent (e.g. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. So it's clear from here that those who organize terrorism, those who put the terrorist first want to intimidate Turkey, they want to terrorize Turkey, they're trying to influence the psychology of our nation. Thus, the aim of terrorism today is to discourage Turkey from becoming a great state. Those of us who are here have to act according to the power of attorney that the nation has entrusted us with. Terror has no religion, terror has no nationality, has no religion. As an AK PARTY, we strongly condemn all kinds of terror, terrorists. Today, those who are using terrorism as a tool are attacking us with the concept of new wars, the concept of new wars, the concept of the campaigny, the war of attorney, in our country, in our region, with DEAS, PKK, PYD, DHKP-C, and so on. Both President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, who are the founders of the EC PARTI, expressed that we are against all kinds of terror, that we curse all kinds of things, that we should all work together in the national and international area. Especially those who are here... to commemorate the religion of Islam together with terrorism, to speak of Islamic terror, to not know Islam, and to insist on it is treason. And to the international public, Mr. President, our Prime Minister has repeatedly warned them not to use terrorism side by side with Islam. In any case, it is our duty to speak the language of our civilization. Our civilization advises us two things in such cases: one, defasid; that is -- this kind of terrorism -- to provide the defi and subpoenaed benefit, to be taken. So today we're dealing with a trial, corruption, separatist terrorism. Then it's up to us to take care of it first, in the language our civilization has taught us. So we have to be together, we have to work together. The solution lies in our civilization code, in our nation's deep memory. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, there is no security weakness in the power of the EC PARTI, there is no weakness in freedom and democracy.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0168par0912	Mr. Orator, how come people get killed with bombs every day?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0913	As was the case before, the state's bodies now carry out an active and powerful fight with terrorism and terrorists, and will continue to operate.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0168par0914	Oh, my God! 100 in Ankara, 11 in Istanbul... how do you say no?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0915	First, our President and Prime Minister, all the EC PARTI staffs; in every field, in every political move, we know that our civilization has rights over us, our people have rights over us, and we know in our responsibility that we are responsible for our civilization, our faith, our geography, our history and our nation. Today's ahval and the condition is that a hundred years ago, those who wanted to divide and break the Ottomans came together. A hundred years ago, they described the Middle East to control the energy lines on Ottoman soil. I strongly advise you to read Niall Ferguson's book "The Formation of the Modern World" by Britannia, because I feel no harm even when I use the definition of the Middle East here. According to who, the Middle East, according to what, the Middle East?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0168par0917	Introduction to the Middle East, class 1st grade class, they're being taught at the university.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0918	We can't refer to the Ottoman land just south of us as the Middle East, which was Ottoman land a hundred years ago. According to Middle East Britain, it is a form described as the East, the Far East, and the Middle East, a definition of sovereignty, and we will not act on those definitions. We have to set out from our own values of civilization and faith. So today they're fighting for the people, for the people's sake. They want to eliminate Erdogan and Ahmet Davutoglu, who have carried out the process of understanding, construction and charity in a march of civilization together with this nation. They want the world to be bigger than five.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0169par0919	Says who?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0920	They want the AK PARTY to give up its promises, projects, dreams on its way to serve the nation.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0170par0921	Yes, Mr. Orator, let's investigate this massacre. What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0922	I'm talking about dirty alliances, their local collaborators. Those who declared Erdogan to be a traitor, those who declared him to be a didictator, those who accused Recep Erdoğan of being a single man, said the same thing to Abdulhamit a hundred years ago.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0171par0923	Who, who?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0170par0924	Well, let's clear Erdogan, and let's do this research, what's going to happen? Let's look into it. What are you afraid of? Let's look into it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0925	If today Erdogan has put an end to that dirty alliance, if he is continuing his struggle with the dirty alliance and is walking with his people, as long as he does not give up his claim, as long as we, as a nation, continue this march of civilization with Erdogan and Ahmet Davutoglu...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0170par0926	Yeah, well, let's look into the massacre.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0927	...the games of these dirty alliances will continue, and our struggle will continue.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0172par0928	I love you, you!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0929	On the day that Erdogan gave up his claim today... just as Abdulhamit did not pass, neither will Recep Erdogan, and they will continue to accuse him like this.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0173par0930	Yes, Mr. Recep made the massacres. Are we saying that? Let's look into it. Why are you mixing it up? What are you trying to protect?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0931	Recep Tayyip Erdogan today will give up his great Turkey ideal, the great march of civilization, the headline of the New York Times will change, the headline of his collaborators in Turkey will change, and they will say...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0173par0932	Oh, the research commission, the research, Mr. Orator!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0933	Erdogan is the most compassionate leader in the world.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0173par0934	Okay, okay, Mr. Recep is very good. What do you think of the research commission? Let's investigate this massacre.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0935	They'll get rid of these headlines. But our bet continues. And the nation has also taken note of those intellectuals who accused Turkey of slaughter.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0173par0937	Yeah, we're not accusing him, we're investigating him.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0174par0938	Maybe he'll be exonerated!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0939	People have a good memory. The people know that he who enlightens him is enlightened, and he who enlightens him knows that he is enlightened.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0173par0940	Let's look into it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0175par0941	We do not make friends with those who enter the city in their boots.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0942	No one will be given a single marble concession at this point, one step back from this march...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0173par0943	Okay, let's investigate, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0944	...to the end of our ideal in Turkey, all together, I hope. I invite you to be responsible in that sense. When we first left, we said everything was for Turkey, everything is for the nation.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0173par0947	Yeah, this isn't the polls.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0948	Today, we repeat the same statement: "Keep on serving the people. " Everything is for Turkey.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0173par0949	What about the research motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0167par0950	Continue to serve, honor and honor. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0176par0953	Thank you, Mr. Star. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, the second speaker is Ceyhun İrgil, the Fellowship of Bursa. Here you are, Mr. Irgil. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0177par0958	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and all our people. I have made a commitment to a parliamentary research motion in Turkey to investigate the massacres of ISIS terror organizations and ISIS live bombs, which may have been massacred by entering Turkey. Dear friends, 10 tourists lost their lives yesterday in our country, in Istanbul, in our country's largest city, in Sultanahmet. Diyarbakir, Suruç, some fanatics were able to put a handle on innocent people who died because of what we lost in the Ankara explosions. Now, with the death of guests in our country, the whole world is watching us, and it's said, "Come, let's investigate this ISIS terror." Let the House of this country investigate this bloody terror organization that harms our country, kills our people. That's all there is to it, that's all there is to it. Isn't that a reasonable, human and conscientious request, folks? My dear friends, in the face of terror, the reputation of our country, the security of our country, it's a duty to investigate this for us, isn't it? Today Turkey, our people, and especially after the death of tourists in Istanbul yesterday, the eyes of the world are on us. The world is watching us right now, wondering what we say, what we say, what we do, what will Turkey's power and Parliament take on terror. My dear friends, when our country will suffer so much in the face of terror, not all parties in the House will be united today and will not act together today? As a matter of fact, all the speakers said that, and so did our friend from the AKP. It's the same thing we've been saying since Suruç, when our friends said it. Let's look into this terror. We say, "Let all Turkish people witness it and watch it now." In the past, the investigation of terrorism in this parliament has been rejected several times by the AKP and MPHP. Friends, you and we don't leave ash on the grill in our words, in the newspapers, and on TV, and neither do you. Love, brotherhood, peace, you're screaming all over the place, "Damn terror!" But the real test is now, today, soon. This isn't the time for words, we're about to see action, we're about to see your fingers. The whole world will see who's real and who's sincere about the fight against terrorism and the stand against terrorism. Friends, there's been a lot of news about joining Islamic extremist groups in Turkey, Al-Nusra, ISIS. There are tens of thousands of turnouts being mentioned in our country, and a lot of information that we've seen in police records or newspaper reports has always come to us as hearsay, so far. We're always spending time in this House with words and polemics. What's said here today is a very simple, simple proposal: let's investigate it. What's the harm in investigating this? Guys, if your kid gets a nosebleed at school, someone punches him, you go to the police, you go to the DA, you go after him. In the centre of this country, in the heart, in Ankara, in the heart of Istanbul, in Sultanahmet, in Diyarbakir; in Suruç, over 500 people exploded with bombs. There are many mothers among you, many parents, many children; how can you object to being investigated? We're just, you know, surprised about it, and we're getting the Turkish public's attention.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0178par0966	The police and the prosecutor are in charge.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0177par0967	What cop?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0179par0968	Go on, go on, go on...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0180par0969	That's it! Oh, my God, he's laughing! I wish those cameras could take a shot and see how they laugh. Yeah, it's a shame.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0177par0970	Yeah, you guys, you call everything the police and the prosecutor in charge. We've seen your police and prosecutors, too.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0180par0971	We saw it, we saw it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0177par0972	You told them all in your time, my dears, my lungs, you gave them cars. Where are they now? How do we know those prosecutors won't be like that in the future today? All right, you can suck it. Guys, what happened?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0181par0974	Let's cancel the police force.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0177par0975	My friend, we say that your only job in the House is not to come here and make small talk, not to raise your hand. You don't even know what you're saying no to, what you're saying yes to. You don't even know what motion you're against here, you raise your hand. He says people are dead, they can't be buried. You're talking about conscience. Let go of me, brother! Guys, it's a matter of conscience, we're talking about the dead.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0181par0977	You were just talking, you were just talking. You were talking a little while ago.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0177par0978	You just throw it, keep throwing it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0181par0979	Then don't say anything else.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0177par0980	Friends, on June 5th -- speakers have just stated -- there's been a lot of massacres in Diyarbakır, Suruç, Ankara, which, coincidentally -- we've given up the investigation of the police, the prosecutor -- you've imposed a gag order on them, you've made a confidentiality order on their files. What's the motive? Guys, you've rejected all the motions for research in the House. Remember, your Prime Minister himself called ISIS angry youth. The prime minister then stated that the live bombs of the entity cannot be arrested until they are carried out. But something interesting happened yesterday, and in less than two hours, you discovered that the live bomb was Syrian, what it was, what it was, how old it was, that it was fragmented, so it was a Lego, which you immediately merged and identified in two hours. In one week, you couldn't identify how many people were dead and bombers in Ankara. Friends, we remember from July 29th -- our friends from the 25th term -- that we would investigate terrorism here at an extraordinary meeting as the CHP Group, and our Group Vice President, Mr. Levent Gök, at that time, gave a historic speech. You can look at the transcripts. I've had these conversations over and over again...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0182par0983	Historical?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0177par0984	Yeah, historically, historically, if you don't understand, drumming... you'll know the rest. Guys, what did you do? With the votes of the MPHP, you have already rejected this investigation.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0183par0986	Yes, we did.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0177par0987	You refused.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0183par0988	We'll refuse again.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0177par0989	Friends, what will Congress investigate that won't investigate?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0184par0990	Go and investigate what is happening in Kandil. Go to the kandil, see what happens.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0177par0991	Friends, then our party sent a delegation to Suruç. This committee has prepared a very serious report. In this report, he put photos of all the killers, showed them to you, and you denied it. There was Abdurrahman Alagöz, who set off the bomb, in Suruç. We said, "He has a brother who is missing." CHP Group, all speakers. We said he was planning an act, you didn't say anything, you shut up, you didn't take it seriously. So, what happened? Only three months later, on October 10th, in Ankara, this fellow came and detonated the bomb, killed 103 of our citizens, injured hundreds, and left without arms and legs. Not to mention those mental traumas. So, who was the perp? Yunus Emre, brother of the Suruç perpetrator three months ago. Friends, you think you're patriots, aren't we patriots? We wish for the good of this country and for the good of the people. So at least listen to the opposition from time to time, because maybe it will help the country. You don't have to talk about it, you know, you're a terrorist organization. We say it all the time; we're against any kind of terror, terrorist organization, we're cursed. Whatever this is, whoever's holding a gun and using violence is not one of us, friends, so don't try to patch it up in vain. Dear friends, our friend from the AK PARTY just described Middle Eastern geography, saying that this is not the Middle East. That's an interesting thing. I'll ask him where the Middle East is. You've made a great contribution to this geography and the pathetic nature of our country in creating the ground for this terror. It's not just us, it's the world's press and researchers. When we look at the environment right now, there are curfews, no electricity in the houses -- I'm telling that speaker who just spoke specifically -- no water, no food, no fire. How do you know? I was there, I was there, I was there, I saw it with my own eyes. There's no medicine, no baby food, no milk; there's constant bans, poverty, poverty and violence, there's dying babies.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0185par0995	You have a problem with perspective, you have a narrow point of view.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0177par0996	What do you need my perspective for? I've been there, I've seen it, you've been here, you've been on the couch. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Guys, whatever the reason, it's our duty...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0186par0999	You can't expect the problem to be solved without being neglected. What's the reason?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0177par1000	Look, you're dead... you're a mother, you're a talker, ma'am, you're probably a mother, and even if you're not, you have a sister. It doesn't matter what it's called, it's a terrorist organization, that's who it is, who's nobody; who's dead, standing there, a 70-year-old woman, a 3-year-old kid. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm there, I'm visiting the family, I'm in the condolence tent, the Prime Minister is making a statement, there's no civilian death." he said: "O my people! Come on, guys! Is my time over, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0187par1004	It's full. Thank you, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0177par1006	Okay. I don't know what to tell you... but we're about to see your hands.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0187par1009	Thank you, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0188par1010	Mr. President, during the speech, Mr. Speaker, we've been asked to mention the name of our party more than once, several times...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0187par1011	I couldn't hear you, several times...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0188par1012	A few times, with the name of our party in mind, I'm going to challenge a misunderstanding, and we're going to have a...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0187par1013	What kind of sentence did he make, Mr. Akchay?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0188par1014	So, our motion to investigate with the votes of the National Movement Party and the AKP has been denied...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0187par1015	Mr. Akçay, if you'll excuse me, I'll have the transcripts brought in, and if there's a taunt, I'll make it necessary.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0188par1016	Thank you, Mr. President, I believe that. But the teasing is very clear...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0187par1017	No, it's just that he's been rejected by the votes of the AK PARTY and the National Movement Party. I don't take a sentence called teasing, but if something is said ahead of that, I'll take the minutes, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0188par1018	The charge was also brought, and why was it rejected? We've responded to similar conversations before, and if you'll excuse us, sir, let's not wait for the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0187par1019	Mr. Akçay, if you'll excuse me, I'll get the transcripts, and I'll do what I have to do, sir. The second word against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal is Umit Özdağ Gaziantep MP. Here you are, Mr. Özdağ. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time has been ten minutes, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0189par1024	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, there is an identity between regimes and states in the Middle East. In a Middle Eastern country, when you destroy the regime, you destroy the state. Because, unfortunately, Middle Eastern countries are organized not as democracies, but as authoritarian regimes, mostly as one party regimes. We have an example of Iraq ahead of us. In Iraq, the Baas regime was destroyed, the Baas were torn to pieces along with the fall of the Baas regime; part of the Baas member terrorist organizations, part of the Baas and Iraqi army officers, who later entered or entered the Iraqi army's intelligence, and some of them formed the infrastructure of the organization that came out today. Basically, after the invasion of Iraq, there is a difference of opinion between the Americans in the matter of dismantling Baas (Baas) and especially the Iraqi army. The U.S. intelligence services, let's not disband the army, because if it disbands, the state structure will be disbanded. They say so, but the American army insists on disbanding, and the result is today's Iraq. The experience of Iraq, for states living in the region, especially Turkey, and Turkey, had to be a guide in shaping its foreign policy; unfortunately, it didn't happen, and Turkey adopted a policy in Syria to ensure the destruction of the regime. However, when I bring this criticism, the AKP's valued spokesman say: "We did not try to overthrow the regime in the early days; rather, we tried to persuade the regime, we tried to take steps to democraticize it. " They are telling the truth, they really did have serious work on it, especially on AKP representatives, especially Davutoğlu, but you couldn't convince them. You don't try to overthrow every regime you can't convince, especially here, if the overthrow of the regime means the country's falling apart, and if this country is your border neighbor, you need to stay further away from it. When we say that, the answer is usually: "How should we meet a leader who has slaughtered his own people? " True, it is difficult to meet a leader who slaughtered his own people, but Omar El Bekir slaughtered 300,000 of his own people in Darfur, and there was no difficulty in meeting with him. If Omar El Beşir had been interviewed, he could also have been interviewed by Assad. So, the Syrians, the people who were killed in Syria, the people who were killed in Sudan, the people who were killed by the Omar El Bashir regime, are they Martians? Moreover, look, there's a center that publishes from London, the Syria Human Rights Watch, which supports the opposition, which says that half of the people who died in the civil war in Syria are anti-government, and half of the people who died in the civil war are opposition. It's true, and it's impossible to say that Assad would have blood on their hands in Syria, but the opposition was clean. Moreover, half of this opposition, even more than half of it, isil and al-Qaeda, al-Nusra, are in Syria. The AKP, unfortunately, did not only tolerate ISIS and Al Qaeda, Al Nusra, but also allowed Turkey to be behind the front lines of the two organisations. ISIS and El Nusra established logistical centers in Turkey, created trade infrastructures, and established terrorist-taking branches. All of this was met with tolerance, ignored because it became clear that the Muslim Brothers and Assad regime would not fall, and instead, El Nusra and ISIS would be used as rams to overthrow the regime. However, ISIS, which adopted the selefi ideology and did not accept Turkey as a Muslim, established the infrastructure of an organisation within Turkey and against Turkey in recent years. When ISIS groups entered Musul, the AKP government thought that we had done so much good, they probably wouldn't attack us. In June 2014, the consulate was raided by ISIS because it wasn't evacuated, and the consulate and the consulate officials were taken prisoner. However, when Ankara asked him about Islam, why did he shoot at us? We are Muslims. You are not Muslims, you are not Muslims. If he had remembered that, our consulate in Mosul would not have been taken that way by ISIS. Now it's much harder to fight ISIS because there are 2.5 million Syrians in Turkey, and within these Syrians ISIS has created its own infrastructure in a strong way. On the day that the United States decided to conduct a joint operation against ISIS, we warned ahead and forth that after this operation was decided, ISIS would start acts of terror within Turkey. I even made a statement to the Samanyol news TV from parliament's garden: ISIS is preparing for a mass attack in Ankara. Ankara police are under pressure, they've been trying to stop it for over a month, but now the police are too tired, so I thought we should be careful. From now on, it'd be the only thing I didn't know, and the police didn't know; it blew up in front of the station for him; but when you make a decision like this, you start operations six months ago, so that ISIS can't answer you, so that it can't act in such powerful acts of terror. Now we're in a more difficult situation because we haven't been able to get intel from Syria since we crashed the Russian plane. Look, a few days ago, he mentioned reports that the President of the PKK had entered Cerablus, and that he had entered the dam below, that we could not confirm. So Turkey doesn't know who is moving in the region just below the border with Turkey, which is 20 miles [30 km] below Cerablus. All of our strategic intelligence elements here appear to have been destroyed, destroyed or withdrawn. Therefore, both Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and ISIS will have new city-based heavy attacks on Turkey in the coming days and months. These are sad things, but such methods are impossible to deal with. Dear lawmakers, standing against terrorism is a moral stance. The MHP represents a moral stance against terrorism. However, when the Parliament on ISIS terrorism wants to investigate, it must put a distance between those who want it and those who want it to. In 1996, the first live bomb attack was carried out by an unarmed band of trumpet troops, and the bodies of Turkish soldiers were torn to pieces and scattered to Tunceli Square. Now, you're going to make a hero out of that bomb attack, and you're going to bless it, and then we're going to come back and investigate ISIS terror. You're going to say, "Let's investigate ISIS terror." It's not acceptable in any way. If you're going to stand up to terrorism, there must be a point where you stand against any kind of terror, so that we can accept it. Therefore, the National Movement Party calls it "No." I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0190par1032	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Talks on the People's Democratic Party Group proposal have been completed. I submit the proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0191par1035	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit01spe0190par1036	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, so I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions in the vote. Those who accept the proposal... those who do not... have the number of decisions enough, the proposal is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0190par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly. Mr. Akçay had a request in the previous session. I told you I'd get the transcripts. Mr. Akçay, I've got the transcripts. The sentences in the report are as follows: The investigation of terror in this parliament has been rejected several times in the past by the AKP (AKP) and MPHP) votes. The AKP MPs, along with the votes of Engagement, have already rejected this investigation. There are sentences in the form of the AKP. Mr. Akçay, where you are sitting, yes, we have refused. You have a statement. Now, for what reason, if I take your word for it again, I'll consider it accordingly. I don't see any bullying here. You've accepted such a claim.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0192par0005	Now, just because I agreed to this doesn't mean there's no bullying, Mr. President. Because some of the Republican People's Party's former, past speakers are being charged with a particular and persistent form of blaming the Republican People's Party's proposal for research in the 25th term, rather than with normal criticism, for reasons which cannot be attributed to the National Movement Party. I, as vice president of the group, would like to make a statement.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0190par0006	Mr. Akçay, now, I don't see the elements of the bullying in Article 69 here, but I promise you from your position for two minutes. I'd like to hear what you have to say, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0192par0007	If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, please, I'd like to express my views from the stand.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0190par0008	Mr. Akçay, I have every respect for the demands of my co-chair friends, but at first I made a statement today. I need to hear from you one of the reasons for bullying in Article 69. Article 69 is very clear: The group of political parties, the government, the commission or lawmakers who have been taunted may ask for words, respond, or respond to a different opinion that he has suggested, and again, these people, these groups, they may be able to explain, respond. I haven't been able to get a reason for any of this from you. If you can tell me such a reason from the speech of Mr. Irgil, I'm willing to promise, but I can't promise because of the reasons you've given me, because there's no bullying here. That's because you accepted that sentence.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0192par0009	Mr. President, you know the sentence has a word and a soul. We reject and reject the Republican People's Party's parliamentary inquiry motion. The speaker, on the other hand, is trying to create an impression that the National Party of Action is opposed to the investigation of terrorism. It's a miscommunication attributed to the National Movement Party, which is obviously bullying. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0190par0010	Mr. Akçay, I'll give you my word from your position, please, because you've accepted this justification from your position. Yes, we refused. Where you call it, the reason for the taunt is completely gone. If it weren't for this sentence, I would have accepted it as a motive, but you can still explain your position according to Article 60. I'm prepared to make you that promise, sir. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. I promise you in two minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0193par0013	Mr. President, frankly, I don't think that's the right attitude, but hopefully we'll be able to discuss this for the time being.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0190par0014	Let's talk again, Mr. Akçay. Let's talk again. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0193par0018	Mr. President, it is the third time before this that some of the most valuable speakers of the Republican People's Party have proposed a parliamentary investigation from the stand... in the 25th term of the Republican People's Party for terrorism and so on -- for their investigation and so on -- in my hands -- and so on -- the death of our citizens in Suruç, Adıyaman and Ceylanpınar have proposed a separate investigation of the People's Party of Peoples and the People' Party of Peoples and other issues. This parliamentary investigation motion was also about the investigation of these acts of terrorism and violence, and they were also accepted here, along with the votes of the Justice and Development Party, Republican People's Party and Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), and we were the only ones who rejected it as the National Movement Party. Because, unfortunately, there was an Imran trail there. In our own way, we had to say no, as per our consistent policies, and we said no. So for whatever reason we said no, we said no to the Republican People's Party's research motion for the same reasons and so on. Today, if the Republican People's Party or any other party brings up a motion to investigate in a similar manner, the National Movement Party will say no again as a primitive, consistent and responsible party. But... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0190par0021	If I had given you two minutes on the stand, you would have used it, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0193par0022	But I mean, let me finish my sentence.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0190par0023	Here, finish your words, I'll turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0193par0024	But in the 25th term, the Nationalist Movement Party did this, and I point out, dear friends: Yes, the Republican People's Party has submitted this parliamentary inquiry motion, but the National Movement Party has issued a motion to investigate those responsible for terrorism. Now, there's a motion to investigate, there's a motion to investigate. Now, my advice to the friends here who are also thinking about criticizing us is, if they want to make their sincerity a little bit more clear about these issues, please, let them make a motion to investigate them, as to those responsible for these acts of terrorism. My final statement is that we, the Nationalist Movement Party, did not participate in demonstrations where the Turkish flag has not been fluctuated until now, or even the ocalan posters have been shown. I'd also like to put that in a parentheses. I salute the General Assembly, thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0194par0028	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday (13/01/2016) there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. Denizli MP MeIike Basmacı and his friends have proposed a parliamentary research proposal for Turkey's Grand National Assembly on 7/1/2016, aimed at finding and finding ways to resolve the post-boycott issues of the marine textile sector in place. lu) To be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, it has been recommended to be taken ahead of the pending motions and to be read in Wednesday's 13/1/2016 presentations and to be held in the same dated joint meeting of its talks. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal and against it, I will make a pledge to two members of parliament. In his favor, the first speaker is Melike Basmacı, Denizli MP. Here you go, Mr. Bassman. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0195par0047	Mr. President, my dear Regents, I salute you. I'd like to start with two questions that confuse my mind and conscience. In our country, there are two ministries with a national reputation and power; one is the Ministry of National Defence and the other is the Ministry of National Education. Unfortunately, the Ministry of National Defense is run by people who are so incompetent that there are tears and pain in the east of my country. In fact, I'm not surprised because after the Istanbul explosion, the dead were not Turkish citizens. There is a Prime Minister in this country who consoles himself. I'm younger than the Prime Minister. It is not for me to give advice, but there is a human being in our religion and in our ethics. Religion, language, race, ethnic identity; they're not choices, they're creations, so they're self-inflicted. Anyway, I like the creation, because of the Creator. Let me just remind him of the event. The other ministry, which carries the declaration of national education and has to transfer its power to the future, is the Ministry of National Education, but today there are no words to describe the evil of its situation. 4+4+4, the inability to appoint our teachers, the conditions of the appointed living, the education of the students, the boredom of the parents, I'm swallowing them all, but let someone explain to us what happened last week. Mr. Secretary says: "A fake degree teacher will be banned from the profession." I don't understand, if the diploma is fake, there's no profession; if there's no job, if there's an appointment, I think it's complicated. I wonder if you don't look at diplomas when you're assigned. Or at that time -- it's very nice, it rhymes, and I like it -- he loved what he had appointed, but now he's explaining whether they like what he's assigned or not -- is that why he doesn't have a degree, Mr. Secretary? In either case, I suggest that the Ministry of National Education be afraid of the power of the national department and leave its post quietly. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And why I took your word for it. On 24/11/2015, after the Russian fighter plane was shot down, Turkish textiles after Russia's boycott on Turkish products were badly damaged, especially the marine textiles were in a difficult position, and the Laleli Market was unable to send products to the market. We, the Republican People's Party Group, have asked for the establishment of a parliamentary research commission, and of course we have submitted it to the Council of Counsellors. The Council of Counsellors, the party representatives, and, once again, the neutral Speaker of Parliament, is established. The Council may decide to open a parliamentary investigation, but it can also be directed here. But it's not the benefit of the public on this board, but it's also been rejected, unfortunately, because it's been taken care of by those who bring the issues. So, investigating the losses of textileists in Turkey has been rejected by the Parliamentary Council of Counsellors. But I'm glad for the first time that I've refused, because this is the first time we'll be able to see in this General Assembly together whether the MPs, the workers, the textile workers, are with the businessmen or are in the shadow of their badges. Dearly beloved, today we have serious problems with textiles and general exports. The firms are calling for a recession and hiring. The export of 2014 was 157.6 billion dollars, while the export of 2015 dropped to 139.7 billion dollars. Do you know why this export fell? The government fell because Iraq, Iran, lost the Syrian market. Do you know why this export fell? He fell because he made bad decisions and increased the euro and lost the European Union market. Do you know why this export fell? He fell because we lost the Russian market in anger and sudden decisions. Do you know why exports have fallen? The businessman was hit by VAT, customs tax, STV and income tax due to the multiples of the floor. But you know what? This economic decline was reflected in the public. How did it reflect? The workers have begun to be removed. How did it reflect? It's reflected in food inflation, bath tax, celibacy tax, intubation tax, intubation to the baby, with the VAT of the severed arm, so everything we've received has been increased and taxed. I know, and I believe that before we look at the party badges, Denizli, who is in charge of textiles, Bursa, the Istanbul MPs will now vote in favour of our investigation by showing that he is with the businessman and the worker. I'd like to say in the words of Mr. Rauf Denktas, that it may have an effect on your decision as well as on the anniversary of your death. Yes, Denizli, the top leader in textiles, should vote in favour of the textile worker and the employer without looking at the party badges of İstanbul MPs, because as Mr. Rauf Denktas said, you will never be able to be fooled in life. You will not step back or step forward in your thoughts. You will not be a man of every era, but you will be a man of every era. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0196par0057	Thank you, Mr. Bassman. The first speaker against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Cahit Özkan, Denizli MP. Here you go, Mr. Özkan. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0197par0061	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, even though I've come here to speak against the research proposal presented by the Republican People's Party, I must say that I've seen this motion in a very sincere way that our naval citizens, unfortunately, have nothing to do with their export issues, their production problems, and unfortunately, our naval nurses, Bursali, Antepli, Adana textile producers, unfortunately, are being abused, and we've seen very well that they're trying to make material for politics here.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0198par0063	Unfortunately bring solutions!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0197par0064	Of course, if you'll excuse me, I was going to tell you about the statistics I got from all the ministries here, but before I got here, as my dear citizen was supporting this naval MP with the opposition to the party, we all listened to the congressman who supported the AK PARTI MP because of his internal opposition, and despite his hard work in the June 7th elections, he put up a big fight for me to be elected MP in the 1st of November elections. However, I would like to point out the problem of nationalism here. Turkey is clearly having problems with nationalism. What is the problem with nationalism? Every time there are betrayals, every time the national borders, national security, national peace of this country are compromised, we are confronted with a sense of opposition, which immediately comes to work and meets with these innocuous centers. In the same way, the rules of engagement -- which you probably know -- are the rules that the Turkish Armed Forces, if there is a threat to the national unity and unity of this country, peace, border security -- are the rules that they live by, and we are thankful to God as the state of the Republic of Turkey, as the Armed Forces.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0199par0066	Get to the point!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0197par0067	I'm coming. I'm a two-and-a-half-month congressman here, and you haven't made your point in two-and-a-half months, so we're on our way, so relax. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] See, we call it the rules of the gangageman. That's why we applied the unity, unity of this country, and the foundations of the Republic of Turkey, just as we followed these rules of engagement.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0199par0070	Well done!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0197par0071	By God, you were not in Çanakkale. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, during a period when the foundations of the Republic of Turkey were laid down in Çanakkale, you were not there to protect this country by giving it 250,000 martyrs! By God, you didn't accuse him of treason.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0200par0072	We were also in Çanakkale, and also in Sarıkamis.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0197par0073	You couldn't stop this country's peace, its unity, and the establishment of the state of the Republic of Turkey. So, let me tell you. Despite repeated warnings, Russian jets have violated our borders, and in these violations, the state of the Republic of Turkey has issued the necessary warnings, as a sovereign state -- what does it say? The government belongs to the free, unconditional nation. It says that we have taken care of the trust of the nation, and we have done it, and we will do it again, and we will do it again, and you will have no worries. You can be with Russia as much as you want.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0201par0075	Oh, that's a shame!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0197par0076	Stay focused on betrayal or terror, and you'll be on your way.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0201par0077	That's a shame. Mr. President, it's a shame.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0202par0079	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0201par0080	He talks dirty, though.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0203par0081	But a government that protects the survival of this country is at work, so don't worry. I also address my fellow Denizli residents, Bursalı, Adana, Antalya textile manufacturers: Don't worry, in this dark period, pre-2002, in the state of the Republic of Turkey, struggling with crises, interest, production problems, we will resuscitate these sectors, again, as we have raised these sectors in the state of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0201par0083	Brother, where do you live?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0204par0084	Who's been running this country for thirteen years?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0203par0085	On the one hand, the state of the Republic of Turkey is growing by 4%, and on the other hand, it's the same rate, but negatively, Russia is collapsing.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0201par0086	Unemployment zero!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0203par0087	Don't worry, we, God willing, will establish both national security and national unity and development of the Republic of Turkey, and its prosperity.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0201par0088	We're flying, we're flying!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0203par0089	What did the Russian authorities do, what did the Russian authorities do when we explained the radio chatter? They said, "Sir, the black box is broken." Who would believe it? Only you can believe it, but our government, which protects the national interests of this country, will not be in the way. Don't mind me saying this. Look, there's an international meeting in France, a month and a half ago, when all the world leaders entered a family photo, there wasn't just one country. Where? In your alliance, the President of Russia, whose faces you made to smile today, was not in that photograph. If the President of the Republic of Turkey hadn't been Prime Minister in that photo, yes, we would have. Those who can't get in there pay for their embarrassment in the international community, and they'll continue to pay for it. Yeah, we talk about politics' nationalization problem all the time. See, this issue of nationalization, trust in a friend, fear of the enemy, but today, the non-national attitude of the opposition, unfortunately, trust in the enemy, gives fear to the friend. So...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0205par0092	What are you talking about? You're being rude! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0206par0093	Wait a minute... wait a minute... what does that mean?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0203par0094	Don't worry, you don't have to talk about it. I'm calling from here to our nation. Our government is being framed by incredible slanders...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0207par0096	See how Naci Hodja looks at you?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0203par0097	...who oppose our national policies, are with Russia and in the unity of the terrorist organization...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0208par0098	Don't be rude! Shame! Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0203par0099	...in a joint way with the focus of betrayal against this national government...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0209par0100	Is that you, Milii?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0203par0101	...our nation understands and sees that you're acting together, and it's for him, which is that we've all seen the AK PARTY governments move on strongly for the past 13 years.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0210par0103	You don't know what you're talking about! Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0203par0104	Yes, I would like to say, as a member of a government who knows that the crisis between this Republic of Turkey and Russia should be shaped in terms of real policy, with a complete sense of interest in international foreign policy.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0211par0105	Come to the sea, to the sea.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0203par0106	Don't worry, as soon as he says -- what Shakespeare says -- let your opinion of the politicians go to the end. You'll see today that it looks like it's against the Republic of Turkey and only to bring down our President and our government -- like when? It's like the Menderes era, like the Özal period...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0212par0107	Come to Denizli.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0213par0108	Proposal Denizli, you have three minutes. When will you come to Denizli?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0214par0109	Fear doesn't help at all.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0212par0110	The seaman's leaving.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0215par0111	I keep telling you, like you said, I'm gonna keep saying it. That's exactly how we feel about your efforts to bring down this government, your departure with all the focus of betrayal, but we see together how this sadness was crowned with victory even on the 7th of June, even on the 1st of November. Don't worry, this issue of nationalism will be resolved one way or another, but I recommend you...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0216par0113	You have the problem of nationalism.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0215par0114	Don't look far for such nationality, nonnationality.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0217par0115	How old are you? You recommend it!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0215par0116	Do you know what I recommend to you...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0217par0117	How old are you?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0215par0118	In the mornings and evenings, read the Identical March, read it once. You can see how we're trying to defend the interests of this country, our approach to the jet crisis.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0218par0119	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What are you talking about? You read that Istrillal March first!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0219par0120	What happened to our oath, our oath?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0215par0121	What's he saying, our literary poet...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0219par0122	Where's the flag?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0215par0123	Let him come to you, to your speeches, to your lines, to your ears one by one. You don't understand when we say "style," "freedom," "national defense." What's he saying?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0220par0124	I condemn this deputy, Mr. President. I resent this deputy. Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0215par0125	Listen... Friend! Don't let the scoundrels...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0220par0127	Shame on you, you!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0221par0128	You're the liar, you're the fraud, you're the traitor to Mehmet Akif.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0215par0129	Let the flesh of thy flesh cease, and it shall come upon thee indecisively. The days he promised you will come when Hakk... Maybe tomorrow, maybe even tomorrow.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0222par0132	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0215par0133	For you, those border violations are three seconds, five seconds, interfering with our soul, our conscience, our integrity.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0222par0135	Down with your soul!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0223par0136	Son of a bitch!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0215par0138	We can never interfere with that.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0223par0139	You're an asshole, you've sold your soul, you son of a bitch!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0224par0141	Listen, listen. Behave yourself! Behave yourself!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0215par0142	That's why you're faced with people punishing you over and over again, you read everything backwards, you keep reading it backwards. I don't listen to you, and people don't listen to you. So, come, with the unity of this country... for the last time, once again, the unity of our nation...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0223par0144	What!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0224par0145	Behave yourself! Behave yourself!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0225par0146	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0226par0147	...coherence, prosperity...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0227par0148	What are you talking about? Come...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0228par0149	I'm coming...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0229par0151	Mr. Özkan, one moment, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0230par0152	...let's fight for him to get up.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0228par0153	What are you talking about? Behave yourself!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0231par0154	What! What!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0232par0155	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0233par0156	Boy, did you see what your lack of style did? The man with no style!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0234par0157	You're a dirty man, you're a dirty man!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0235par0158	You're a child, a child, a child!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit02spe0236par0159	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0236par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume our discussion of the Republican People's Party proposal.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0237par0003	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0236par0004	Mr. Sky, I believe you have a request. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0237par0006	Mr. President, there's nothing acceptable about a young brother who's just tried to say something in his own way to prove that he's a politician, and I'm really sorry to see him, to the Republican People's Party Group, to the entire community. All the words this MP has said have hurt the entire Republican People's Party Group and even the bones of our ancestors. Every word he uttereth hath transgressed, and every word he uttereth is an abomination. First of all, our group has a request to apologize to our friend. We expect your president to grant this request, and we ask for a suitable sentence. The AKP Group must also show its attitude to the person who speaks out of line. Because his words concern all of us, and we demand that this MP be punished and apologized by this Parliament for his concerns. First of all, that's what we're asking for, and we're asking for words about bullying.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0236par0007	Mr. Sky, I'll give you my word on the bullying. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Cahit Özkan, who spoke in the chapter before the merger could, of course, explain his views by using any argument. This is the seat of freedom. As the Court of Presidents, we have no right to interfere, interfere, or shape him, but some of the sentences of Mr. Özkan are not only the Republican People's Party Group, but all political parties...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0238par0009	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0239par0010	We have a demand for words, too. We want words.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0236par0011	...seminating our entire nation. I'd like to express that I'm not comfortable with those words. One sentence was, I took note that you were not in Çanakkale. We had the whole nation in Çanakkale. I mean, I gave it as an example. Mr. Bostanci, I offer it to you as well. I'd appreciate it if Mr. Ozkan could make a correction.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0239par0013	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0236par0014	One moment, Mr. Baluken, I'll listen to you, sir. Mr. Sky has a request for a speech due to a taunt. I'm now fulfilling your request for sarcasm, please, Mr. Gök.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0239par0016	We had an apology before we got into the cross.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0236par0017	There's also the other thing...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0240par0018	Mr. President, I'd like him to apologize first.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0241par0019	We're all going to ask for word if he doesn't apologize.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0240par0020	Because, as for our group -- we have a request for our group, but -- it has affected all members of our group of teasers. Our group has the right to say, separately, to all lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0242par0021	My grandfather sleeps in Çanakkale.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0240par0022	So we expect this friend to apologize first. Let's do this first, see if they do it or not.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0243par0023	Yes, Mr. Sky, I have your request, sir. Mr. Baluken, I'm listening, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0244par0025	Mr. President, we don't think that the example you read from the podium reflects the framework of the entire conversation.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0243par0026	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0244par0027	Almost all of the talk, he accused all opposition parties of being betrayed by the enemy and of having all kinds of dirty relations against this country. The statement in Çanakkale, which you mentioned, that only AKP people fought and died, exposed the entire Turkish community to a great insult in that sense. There's nothing acceptable about it. We all argue that all conflicting thoughts must be expressed freely on the stand. But if there are such harsh insults against the people's will, political parties representing the will of the people, and the entire Turkish community as a whole, there must be an apology here. And we think that your presidential court should be able to implement a disciplinary action on this matter. Besides, after this discussion is over, naturally, he's taunting all political parties at the same time, so we're keeping our word because of the bullying.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0243par0029	Thank you, Mr. Baluken, I'll consider your request, sir. Mr. Akçay, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0245par0031	Mr. President, we just need to discuss the speech of the speaker on the stand in two ways. The first is that the language he uses, the allegations he is in, and the words that lead to severe insults are not acceptable words, but clear blasphemy. For one thing, this must be made up by either an apology or a retraction of your word. The second important issue was that the speaker made some allegations, while making a generalization of all opposition, making these heavy insults and accusations. Therefore, we, the National Movement Party, are an opposition party, but we have nothing to take on the allegations they've been made. But since it is meant to be all opposition, it must be corrected and made clear. I mean, it shouldn't be that easy and cheap, the arguments, the allegations. What's not national, what's treason, and what's the other expression you've expressed? Such recklessness cannot be paid, cannot be answered in this Grand National Assembly of Turkey. That's why I want the word, and that's why I want this speaker to apologize.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0243par0033	Thank you, Mr. Akçay, I'll consider your request. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0246par0035	Mr. President, thank you very much. Like you, other friends here, I also listened more carefully to Mr. Cahit's speech. Yes, there were expressions in his speech that exceeded his purpose. But in these talks, there was no trial, especially for opposition parties here, their collective identities, their corporate personalities.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0247par0038	You're not in Çanakkale. What do you mean, Mr. Naci?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0246par0039	Friends, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0247par0040	You're not in Çanakkale. What do you mean, you cooperated with the Russians. What does that mean?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0248par0041	Let's hear it for Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0246par0042	In general, he spoke of a hostile mentality. Opposition does not remind us of political parties involved either way. When it's called opposition, it's a concept that's connected to a very large environment, with illegal structures that are involved in interesting initiatives, and I'd like to first express it. His intention is this: Of course, when he's called opposition and he turns from the platform with gestures and gestures to the lines of opposition, it's as if he's being told in context. This is where he exceeds his purpose.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0249par0044	So there's nothing in it, Mr. Naci, nothing in it?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0246par0045	Actually, he didn't mention the name for the parties. You'll appreciate that, there were extremely severe expressions, very true.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0250par0046	Falaka's punishment...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0246par0047	Is it possible that if he or we could see those statements himself, or even if we could see them as true statements, we would be able to work under the same roof? Of course not.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0251par0048	So, what are you gonna do now?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0246par0049	We are here together, working together for this country. Our ideas may be different, our approaches may be different, but it is absolutely unacceptable to make any political delegation here look like a group of collaborators against Turkey. It could mean...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0251par0050	Mr. Naci, will you make our friend apologize?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0252par0051	We expect him to apologize, Mr. Naci.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0246par0052	I didn't see any assessment of the party groups here -- although it was a matter of overcoming the purpose -- in the testimony of Mr. Cahit.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0253par0053	You can't do that!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0254par0054	Oh, please.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0246par0055	Dear friends, look, you'll appreciate that there are a lot of different kinds of friends from this bench, friends from power, opposition, who say very harsh words from time to time. Now, if we go back in time in the reports, you've certainly heard a lot about how harsh things are being said about collective identities and parties. In a very vivid way, we just heard it yesterday.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0254par0056	Mr. Naci, will our friend apologize or not? You guys, but look, you're doing the thing. Mr. President, let's get to the point, please.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0255par0058	One moment, Mr. Sky, one moment, sir...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0254par0059	So if you're not going to apologize, the whole group wants a word, sir, we want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0256par0060	Mr. President, it's a good thing you weren't in Çanakkale. He didn't say anything to the AKP.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0255par0061	Sir, let him explain, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0257par0062	Mr. Levent, if you'll excuse me, I'm speaking.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0258par0063	Come on in, guys. Everyone wants one word at a time, folks.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0257par0066	It's not appropriate, it's not appropriate.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0258par0067	Is he apologizing or not?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0259par0068	Mr. Bostanci, go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0257par0069	Mr. President, Mr. Cahit -- I've spoken to him -- he's already going to ask for an explanation and take the stand. Yes, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0259par0071	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0260par0072	He's obviously here to apologize! He's here to apologize!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit03spe0259par0073	I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger. Mr. Group, I'd like to invite the vice presidents to the rear.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0259par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume our discussion of the Republican People's Party proposal. Mr. Cahit Özkan is demanding a statement. Mr. Özkan, please, I'll turn on your microphone, sir. Guys, the electronics are out of order, so they can't jump in fast. Hopefully, the new system will be placed in a position that will serve lawmakers much better. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0261par0009	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in my speech just now, my intention was to make a full political criticism. But I'm afraid that's not how I see it. I apologize to the High Council. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0259par0012	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0262par0014	Mr. President, we've looked at the transcripts. Mr. Niyazi Nefi, our Antalya MP, has a speech that we don't approve of, and neither do we. That's where our friend will make a statement.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0259par0015	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Niyazi Nefi, I'm going to turn on the mic.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0263par0018	Mr. President, thank you. Since I'm provoked by the words of the Hati, I take back what I said to the Hati, which is inappropriate, I request that it be removed from the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0259par0021	Thank you, Mr. Kara. We'll continue the negotiations where we left off. Second speaker in favour of the Republican People's Party Group proposal, Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0264par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate all the dimensions of its problems following the fall of the textile sector when the Russian Federation plane violated our borders. On this occasion, I salute the grand jury. Actually, I made a commitment in favor of the motion. The knowledge was very innocent, and it was a happy occasion for me to have the opportunity to talk about it because the friends who submitted the motion and signed the motion were members of the business world in Denizli. But, unfortunately, I do want to express my regret over what happened in an environment where Denizli had just been discussed. I regret that the problems of the seaman should not be discussed this way. I think it's an effort not to. I'm a member of the opposition party, not unofficial. From Salem, from my grandfather, from my uncles, from Kuvaimilliya. I'd like to express that in particular. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Now, I want to thank my friends for bringing this up. That's not the only problem with the seaman. In the textile industry, before Russia fell into the plane crisis, there was already a problem, about 40 percent of the interaction. What was that? I saw the hallways filled with boxes when I was talking on my factory visits. What did they do? They couldn't send orders because they couldn't get their money. We saw that there really was a problem. The number of bonds protested in Denizli is 8.559 -- I mean last year -- and the value of the year protested is 76 billion 576 million. Now, the number of executive files is 62,000 in 2014, 85 thousand in 2015, along with over 65,000 in 2015. When the economy went bad. In the medium-term programme, although our Denizli minister in charge of exports, the export contribution to the national income was negative, but it was not the AKP government -- I said so here last time -- was a government founded because of constitutional obligation. So, not to the AKP, but to whom? We reflect it on the government of the Minister and the Prime Minister that day. I don't feel the need to subjugate AKP much here. Although there's a real problem with what they've done before, I'd like to express it. Look, Yasar Yakış Bey, minister, Minister of the AKP, may be exported, but the crisis with Russia has narrowed down our maneuvering field in Syria -- there is trouble in the flights and so on -- has forced opposition groups supported by Ankara. I mean, he explains it, he's talking all over the place, and I don't know if he's the reason or not. Now, when we look here, there's a real problem with Denizli. If you say, "What's wrong with her?" Divorce is on its way, and violence is on its way to the ladies. Now, when we look at the numbers and stuff like that, it gets really uncomfortable. Now, there were 3,200 divorces in 2013, 3,700 in 2014. Now, 3,900 in 2015, with what's opened, 7,300 if you add 3,400. Now, is this a good situation, the result of a good economy or the result of a functioning mechanism? Now, we call it executive files in Denizli County. The number of executive agencies in Denizli has also increased to 9. The number of files opened in 2014 is 62,000 in 2014, 65,000 in 2015, 85,000 in continuation. Is that a good result, fellas? We know that there are attempts to postpone bankruptcy in Denizli -- mentioned here a moment ago by our fellow deputies. It's hard to say that I enjoy expressing it in terms of my own science. It's a disgrace, whether it's power or opposition. The AKP people told me that in the 2009 crisis: you say these things, but the banks don't give loans. Why do you say that? Why do you disparage Denizli? What, do these banks, if you love God, give money without looking at the balance sheets? Now we've got a situation. In their motion, they say: "There is no payment, there is no return. There is no business capital, there is no tightness; there is no problem. What's he gonna do when there's a crisis with no business capital? He's gonna run, he's gonna go to the bank. The bank says, "Why should I give you the money that I can't get anyway?" They've got the amount and everything. Now, is that a bad thing to say, to say? But in the business world -- I'm simply saying -- there's pressure, they can't move. That's what I want to say. Now, on the other hand, cases of violence against women: our Minister is here. 2,450 women have appealed to family courts in the city centre of Denizli from the beginning of 2005 to the end of 2005 and demanded a decision to protect their spouse with a bet that he had no life safety or violence. Mr. Secretary, is that a good thing? It's not. Let's hope we don't stop it, all of us. Bring in the suggestions, let's support them, but there's trouble. This is not because the opposition has uncovered the problem, but because of AKP's ineptness for thirteen years, because of its policies. You guys weren't in charge there, okay, but what's happening is... Now, here we go. That's seven people a day, Mr. Secretary. That's not something to be happy about. Like Denizli, the economy in Turkey is one of the provinces we call good. This is really uncomfortable. Now, there is no investment in the sea. Who says there's no investment? He says he's the head of the Industrial Chamber, Minister. You'll take care of it from now on, running away like that. Now, there hasn't been a nail hit since the AKP came to the marines. It means new investment, he says. Everything was done before the AKP arrived in Denizli. The tree did not crash, he says. He's sitting there, I didn't say that. You know him too, don't you, the President of the Industrial Room?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0265par0042	I know him.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0264par0043	He says everywhere, we invest more money in the housing business. He says. There's capital in the sealine; what's going on is taking away, there's zoning, there's... I'm asking you, please take care of it, the perky economy is working. You don't give a zoning rate to the one on the side, you give it to the one on the other side. Why would the man come and invest if you loved your God? The gazebo is organized, Mr. Minister, it hasn't been done in years. He comes in there with an ad, guys, trying to do something.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0266par0045	We did it, the gazebo is organized...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0264par0046	No, it's new, honey. It's empty. Is he lying, Head of the Industrial Room? We'll do it together, Minister, we'll support you here, but bring something. They haven't brought it by now, let me be clear, they're your friends. It's always been the worst incentive. They can't say no. You may be... maybe it's not about you, but you're in the Cabinet, that's what they call it. I'm having trouble getting information from the public if it wasn't for Mr. Governor in Denizli. We're looking directly, but we can barely get it, thanks to him. He didn't used to be like this. Now he's the mayor; he's in your unit, he's in charge, he's in there, he's in charge. How many people did they give coal to in the sea? Give it to me. We're talking about it, he's giving it to us, we're talking about it. Trust me, he's scared now, he can't. I'm asking how many places you've assigned to the TOKI. He's going to give me his assistant, and I'm saying, "Ya, you're going to give it to me and you're going to ask your boss again." He asks, "I swear, I can't give it to you, I'm sorry." I would, but it happened. He says. I did. I don't know what happens to a civil servant. What if we learned from this? There's trouble here, there's trouble in Denizli. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm telling you, for the sake of God, give it up, stop it. With a zoning change, the world goes. Of course! It's a sin. Do you place this world aside from the Hereafter? You have faith... Are we going to stop it, Mr. Secretary, or are we going to be together? I'll bring it up from tomorrow to block the development runt. People from CHP are here. Are you in? [[We've heard the CHP lines!]] I'll vote in favor of the motion. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0267par0057	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. The second word against the Republican People's Party Group proposal belongs to Denizli MP Kazim Arslan. Here you go, Mr. lion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0268par0062	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with respect. Before we get to the point, I've just watched our friend, who's a Denizli MP, speak with regret and regret, as a Denizlilili, but I'm very sorry. And I'm really sorry about that as a Marine.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0269par0064	Mr. Kazim, you're not saying anything to me.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0268par0065	No, no, I'm not saying it for you, I'm saying it for the speaker before you. But, I can't help but notice, I'm truly sorry as a Marine. Yes, I've made a commitment to the research proposal that we've submitted on the problems of the textile industry. Of course, here, I would like to point out that there are a lot of problems in textiles, as a textileist, as an industrialist. Although it is expressed against him, I really want to address the problems of the textile industry, the problems of the industrialist, the problems of Denizli, and the problems of the textiles in Turkey. The textileist has very important problems. Today, the most intensive work is the textile industry. As far as the problems of our textile workers are concerned, I want to make it clear that the problems of our employers, the problems of our industrialists, are much more intense. If we want the textile industry to live in Turkey, if we want it to be strengthened, we need very special incentives and support. Denizli has been one of our cities that has been working primarily in textiles for years and has had a say in textiles, but I want to say that with our Denizli, Istanbul, Bursa, Gaziantep, Kahramanmarash, Adana have also taken a really significant distance in textiles and that the work has come to a full stop, even though it has been continued for years. The textile sector of these provinces is one of the key sources of income. I would like to point out in person that the textile industry is losing blood in Turkey, losing blood in Denizli. I want you to know that. I would like to point out that many businesses can be shut down in time and that many unemployed people can be left in the middle if they continue to be looked at remotely as foster children. Now, I want to ask the state of the textileist in this situation: Do you really want to support the textile sector, do you want to keep it alive, or if you've taken it out, what sector do you want to replace it? During this period of power in our naval province, 34 factories were shut down, and few new ones were made. The growth has almost never happened, and our friends, our industrialists, who work in the textile industry, have no enthusiasm, no excitement. So I'd like to state the situation of a textile industry that is in place, even going to shrink from time to time. So, if we want to keep the textile industry alive, if we want to produce it, if we want to make businesses grow, if we want to increase exports, there's a great need for new incentives and support. The largest charge of textile industry is in the field of energy. Although the price of raw oil barrel was down to about $160 in 2002, it was down to $40 today, the price of energy, the price of fuel, unfortunately, has not been reduced. And the decline in prices is not in a situation that really works for our industrialists and textiles. I want to point out that there is a tremendous need for energy support for production and exports so that the textile sector can live and compete, and I want to say that there is an absolute need for energy support in the natural gas, because I've traveled through many world countries, and I want to say that the price of electricity in Turkey has changed between 12 and 14 cents, in China, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, and Turkey. So I say we have to use energy in a way that is more expensive than 10 cents -- in a more expensive way than in the country. Now, my dear friends, as we talk about these things, I'd like to point out that the industrialist, the marine industrialist, who upsets and when he talks about them, is not at the point where the industrialist is really finished, but at the point where he's getting smaller, when he can't grow up, they can be really difficult at the closing point of time. Members of parliament, I say that in order for problems in the textile sector to be overcome, these work can be done in a better way by setting up private organised industrial zones in textile industry, building infrastructure, if there's a demand, if there's a demand, the decontamination facilities can be built and given to textiles. Again, I'd like to reset the VAT. On the energy used in textiles and industry. I propose that TRT be removed from the 2 per cent of its participation in electricity. I'm saying the down payment on textiles and industry should be lifted. The stamp tax must be cancelled. I say that the textileist and the industrialist's debt to the state is to be relieved of their debt to each area through VAT refunds, and thus, the VAT must be paid. The incentives must be done at every point, at any point, to increase investment, production, employment, exports, without any distinction. If the state isn't investing today, if it's selling its assets, then it should open the way for the private sector, give it the necessary incentives, supports, and create a market where it can easily compete. It would be right for incentives to be in infrastructure and fixed investments and to avoid issues that affect the cost, which cause unfair competition. My dear friends, today our exports are usually reduced by 10% and 16% in Denizli. It shows that it's clear that the exporter from the sea can no longer export enough, can no longer work, can't make much, can't make a lot of money and can't grow any more. To your knowledge, I salute you all again with love.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0270par0078	Thank you, Mr. lion. Talks on the Republican People's Party Group proposal have been completed. Now, I propose to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0271par0081	We were in the majority this time, Mr. President. We were in the majority, so if there was more attention, the gym would be looked at.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0270par0082	Sir, we saw it, I looked it up.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0272par0083	Mr. President, the clerks didn't get along, so count again.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0270par0084	We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. The Committee for Assembly Research, Established with the aim of determining the measures needed to investigate and strengthen the Family Institution with the Unsurlars, whose Family Consolidation Is Negative. I'll have the political party groups read the list of candidates shown for their membership and put them to your votes. The Committee for Assembly Research to Be Established in the Purpose of Investigating Divorce Events With Unsources -- whose Family Association Needs to Be Reinforced [[10/2, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18]] [[10]] [[4]] [[2]] [[1]] I submit the reading list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, members of parliament elected to the Parliament Research Commission on Thursday (January 14, 2016) at 13 p.m. I request that they meet at Assembly Research and Investigation Commissions Assembly Hall 511, which is next to the 2nd floor KİT Commission Assembly Hall, where they will be elected president, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk. The meeting of the commission has been announced on the day and time also on the plasma screen. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will continue the talks of the Law and Budget Commission Report (Isparta MP Surajya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Group Group Deputy Chair and Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; 35 MPs who are ranked in the 1st place in the draft of the Military Law and Some Laws. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Congressmans, yesterday's merger completed negotiations on the entire bill. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers 1 to 10. I present to you the speakers who wanted to speak on behalf of the groups and individuals in the first chapter: Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group; Faruk Çaturoğlu on behalf of Justice and Development Party Group; Zonguldak MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat, Mersin MP; Bkent Kuğoğlu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Ankara MP. On behalf of his subjects, Bkent Kuşoğlu, Ankara MP; Salih Cora, Tripoli MP. The first word is Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0273par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, I'll keep singing. Because we're seeing another bag of laws, and right now we're trying to cook another bag of law for you in the kitchen. We go up and down at the same time, and it's after 7:00 again, we start the law. That's how some friends look at it, and they said up there, "You're blocking it, that's why it's happening." Our friends here saw why the wasted part of an hour of arguing was gone. I mean, it's not a healthy method of law making, let's say it again. On the one hand, we're not going to do the torba. We're going to continue to discuss the fourth bag within a month. I mean, we have to give it up for once. And what's interesting is that every law, including a couple of laws, comes back from the Supreme Court, comes back from the Supreme Court, and they're all brought in and shoved in, and they all have to be mixed up with a couple of harams. I mean, it's necessary, all the parties promised, all the things they said in their affidavits, but there's always something going on between them. You have to give that up. We need to take radical structural measures. Otherwise we'll keep making bags like this and patching them all up. We need to make that determination first. And the ministers are here, the members of the party, the members of the group are here, and we're hoping that you'll end this as soon as possible, but since it's back-to-back, we're going to have to share it over and over again. And then there's this weirdo, and before anyone else gets here, there's another bill or offer. While he's waiting for a bill or a proposal, which we now call a government proposal, friends, because the government is preparing, and because it's not, he's having a few of our friends add two more items and transfer them as an offer. I'm telling my friends, but I don't think they're interested in any of this stuff, it seems, conversation, conversation.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0274par0141	We're listening to you very carefully, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0273par0142	I'm making constructive criticisms so this doesn't go on.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0274par0143	Sir, we're listening to you very carefully.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0273par0144	Now, let me give you an example, and maybe it will draw their attention to the fact that in Article 1 of this law...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0275par0145	You wrote a book.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0273par0146	We'll write another book, it looks like Osman, so...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0275par0147	You wrote a book for him. I know, I read the book.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0273par0148	There is, so we're going to write another one, so at this rate, there are four laws. Now, first of all, Mr. Osman... our friends from the Foreign Affairs Commission... who brought in the military for a year... have nothing to do with what's on the bill and what's coming to you from the Commission. It's not like this: the title is right, it's military-related, it's military-related, but dear friends, if you want me to read one of these, look. So what does the teacher really say? He may be listening, not listening. The purpose of what is coming is that those of Turkish citizens who carry out all the following conditions, by applying for military branches through their foreign diplomatic missions, as much as 1,000 euros or more, are considered to have done military service on the basis of the application. What were the conditions here? It's very innocent, it's our citizens who live there, it's a dual citizenship -- let's call them Turks, they're re-entering citizenship, it's a long story, our friends talk about it, but it's an innocent thing -- it's a clause that came to encourage them to enter citizenship, to solve their problems there, and then all of a sudden, what happened? For everyone, work abroad has been reduced to a thousand euros for those who remain abroad. Now we're asking, well, we're saying, well, we're lowering it to a thousand euros, so who's making 5,000, who's making 10,000, who's making 6,000, and why is it now a thousand? For one thing, this has to make sense, or why did we do it? Come on, we get that, in normal circumstances, when we say we're going to solve that citizen's problem, something else is being brought back here, so it's a thousand euros for everyone. So, what happened to encouraging them? I mean, I don't think there's anything humiliating about a military thing being discussed with money and amounts. It's not right for our citizens to enter citizenship and do this stuff, and when our proposal comes, our friends will talk about it, but at least, since we call those people... we'll encourage them, if we get a thousand euros from the others, then let's not get any of them. Plus, we don't solve our citizens' problems just by solving the military problem. We need to make a different legal arrangement that we're going to handle all of this, like any other matter. Just after him comes the 2nd article, and the freak continues. And there, he says to him who had previously made a contract to deposit his money, and to him who had invested his money: "The extra payments they made will not be returned. Why? I mean, what are the previous people going to say to you? Won't it be unfair to those who serve five thousand, six thousand, 10,000 euros? Come on, we've given up on him, he's in bed now, but he hasn't left yet, and we're confiscating him so he can't be returned to their money, which is a little unfair, my friends. The motive is innocent, but you have to return it to those who have already paid for it. We don't think that's true. Other than that, there's an arrangement for the Mining Law here in chapter one. Here, the arrangement for public companies, previously neglected in the bag, is envisioned to be done in the same way to the private sector. Okay, so the support here can be given about cost increases, but while that law is being discussed here, unfortunately they weren't taken into account when we said these things, but since they're in the private sector, maybe they're not in the public market, but... in that case, instead of thinking about them, let me remind you what you were thinking about, instead of adding it to article 13,,,, 13,,,,,,,,,,,,,? What has been added here as Congress? Since some companies were unable to pay the price difference from the Public Contraction Act, you placed a private, private arrangement with the company as his second joke. However, the damage caused by the private sector was to be compensated at that time. But because our friends promised something at the time, you did it again, as Osman said in the book, to set a price difference in public tender legislation, which is a part of the book -- the generality of the law of the law, and so on, but they're not, and now you're bringing it in as a special arrangement. And we're asking: well, what's it going to cost, so once you've done an impact analysis, it's gone again. There's Law 5018 standing by, there's Orders of Prep -- it's out in your day -- it's not in accordance with any of the clauses, I swear. He's back again, he's not sleeping. Friends brought it upstairs; last time, when this law came in, they brought in a clause. Yeah, well, they have their reasons, so the IRS brought us a motion. Well, let's see, we thought we'd take a look at it, and it just started reading, Mr. President. The Civil Code violates 35. Mr. Hawk is there, our former Speaker is looking at both law and... he knows that. They didn't listen to the old one, they didn't listen to the new one, Mr. President. We gave it to Mr. Cemil Cicek. In the previous bag, where we wrote your book, there are 48 articles that violate the Civil Code 87. The Civil Charter passed from above 35, and here it passed contrary to 87. Now, we shouldn't be doing this. Of course, my friends pulled it back, but what that arrangement brings, what I'm critical of there, is that we've victimized the citizen. We had a long discussion as the law of authority was passed here. We've already ruled out Code 666, and there's been a lot of misdemeanor in it. Now that our citizens, our officers have won this in court, they have won the individual application to the Constitutional Court, and when their cases are in their favor from the Court of State, they bring friends now: let's make a new legal arrangement. I mean, something has happened that has become an appeal for decisions that have been made by the Supreme Court, by the Supreme Court, by the Supreme Court, by the Court, by the Court, by the State. The interesting thing is, I say, what if the members of this Supreme Court -- you've been in power for 13 years -- after the Constitutional Court changed the law on the Constitutional Court, after the Constitutional Court changed? That's it. We need to put an end to these injustices. And in order for all of this to be arranged, we need to take all of the structural measures together, and we need to make these arrangements in the relevant commissions. On this occasion, hopefully, this bag of legislation -- it's being forced up there -- will be the last, after the budget, the bag of laws -- is now the premiered, there is no such thing, but we say it's not -- it's not going to come. To solve all structural problems together, I give all of you respect, not to some hurtful rhetoric, not to secular politics, but to direct our country's economic, social problems.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0276par0158	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Faruk Çaturoğlu, Zonguldak MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Chaturoglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0277par0163	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation with love and respect. I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group over the first chapter of the draft Law on the amendments to some Laws and Laws. I salute you all with love and respect. Dear MPs, I strongly condemn yesterday's offensive attack on Sultanahmet Square. No matter where terror comes from, no matter where it comes from, it's terror, and there's no way terror can be forgiven. I also ask for the blessing of all of our mineral martyrs who have ever been killed in a mining accident in Soma, Ermenek, and all of our mining sites, especially in Zonguldak, the capital of mining. I'd like to say a few words about the procedural debates that were held here before the precious preparation entered into the original discussion of the arrangement. The delivery of regulations in the form of a bag of legislation is rightly criticised by the opposition. Some of these critiques include us, but why are these laws in the form of bags, what is the escort of this, and why is such a necessity required, and I'd like to say a few words about it. First of all, it is imperative that the AK PARTI governments, from 2002 to November 1st, restrict their commitments to our constituents, their commitments to our citizens, to make them a government programme after the election, and especially in the final election, after 1 November, the government programme was announced by our Prime Minister himself, and that they were immediately brought to the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There are similar reasons in other matters. Another has been held for the first time in the history of the republic twice in a row this year, and has been held almost in 2015, making it important that some arrangements be brought to the General Assembly immediately. Another thing, dear friends, is that there seems to be something about the concept of lawmaking of the ruling party in this House and preventing opposition parties from doing so. The solution, dear friends, is to change the Civil Code to ensure that the laws of this country, for the good of this nation, are immediately passed within the framework of reconciliation. If we can't make these changes, dear friends, this bag of laws is inevitable and will continue to come. The democratic level and prosperity of our country has increased by reforms on constitutional, legal and institutional levels in recent years. Many chronic problems from the past have been developed from a cumbersome economy and state structure to a more efficient and rapid public administration with a dynamic and competitive economy based on production and competition. Thus, many problems have been solved that have not been solved for many years. Without a doubt, social, economic and political reforms require a continuous government. This bill contains regulations for the implementation of issues envisioned during three months in general from the 64th Government Programme and the Action Plan of 2016. In this scope, the reduction of military costs from citizens living abroad, the introduction of the Turkish Republic's identity card to citizens, arrangements for the protection of biometric data; also with the bill, there are regulations in some laws such as the Mining Law, the Law of Turkish Armed Forces and Law 5510; the public share is less than 50 per cent, and the Stock Exchange organises issues concerning determining the control bases of companies that are being processed in Istanbul. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I especially want to focus on the 6th article of the bill on the 10 articles in this first group. This is the law on coal businesses. As you all know, most of our current deficit stems from energy imports. We depend on more than 50 per cent of natural gas and on more than 50 per cent of natural gas in energy production. Our Energy Ministry has recently conducted a series of studies at the point of reducing this external dependence on energy. First, resources and resources are being tried to increase the country's diversity and local resources are being weighed down. As we all know, two thirds of the world's fossil resources are coal, and Turkey has coal mines run by different institutions in various basins. In this regard, studies are being made to prioritize domestic coal production. In connection with businesses operating in the underground coal sectors previously, changes have been made under Law 6592 and Business Law 4857 have been made, their working hours reduced, their working days reduced, and the 9th article added to Mining Law 3213 has been estimated to receive at least 2 minimum wage in subterranean mines. Again, these public cost increases were met with the interim Article 29 (29) added to Mining Law 6592 in February 2015, with which the Council of Ministers was authorized, and the Council of Ministers supported a number of formulations, but those supports were not enough. However, underground coal companies operating here in the private sector have not been included in this arrangement. Now, with the 6th article of the law regulations that we're going to make, we're also taking over the private sector, and by authorising the Council of Ministers with this arrangement, it is recommended that the work be done at the point of resolving their victims with this arrangement, which was previously inadequate for redevance enterprises, which had no place in private mining businesses. Dear friends, after the Soma accident, as you know, there have been fewer workers in these mines. This has the effect of various financial obligations and other issues after the accident, and many businesses have been closed in this context. Now they can be reopened, provided that our national resources can be evaluated, some of the production costs from the cost increases will be met by authorization to the Council of Ministers and Article 6 of this arrangement. To energy...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0278par0178	Mr. Chaturoglu, your time is up, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0277par0179	Can you give me an extension?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0278par0180	We don't give extensions, we don't have one, you know.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0277par0181	Is that so, sir?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0278par0182	Yeah, sure.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0277par0183	Then I'll go ahead. In this time of our most intense need for energy, the withdrawal of companies producing coal from local resources has increased our dependence on imported coal. In addition to the public, which has previously been thought to cover costs increases, the private sector has been met with costs increases and the development of all underground coal companies...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0279par0185	Faruk, it's okay, your time's up.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0277par0186	Is it? Is it over?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0280par0187	Thank you, Mr. Chaturoglu.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0277par0188	Well, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0280par0190	Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat, Mersin MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Firat. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0281par0194	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I salute you all. Today I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the Military Code. And on behalf of my group, I salute the High Council. A while ago, we had an incident that upset all our MPs. This is not just a speech that offends or offends opposition lawmakers, I believe many of our MPs have experienced the same sadness within the EC PARTY. These events have happened before, unfortunately, not too often. In a way, however, he has been apologized for the intervention of the relevant MP or the deputy head of the group, and our Deputy Speaker has been very fond of speaking with the members of the group. However, I would like to ask that the fellow who gave that speech in some way excuse our MPs. You know, for a new constitution study, political parties form a joint delegation. In my opinion, of course, there is no way to claim that the Constitution of 1982 is a constitution that suits this country in any way. But again, according to my personal blood, not just the Constitution, but the absolute freedom of two fundamental laws, which are the 82-products of the Political Parties Act and the Election Law, the absolute democratisation of the Law or its laws. If we want to use this Assembly as an active force, and we don't want to repeat the events that have just happened, and while some friends or other opposition parties are trying to pass a law in a blind fight, the main problem is the Political Party Act, the Election Law. Because every MP who comes here represents all of Turkey, the MPs who represent all the citizens in Turkey. But if you look at the Law on Political Parties, which was brought to 82 coups, and look at the processes that followed, you'll see that the parliamentarians who created the legislature don't come to these ranks through members of their own political party, but through their real members and by a struggle. But when he comes here between the leader's lips or his pen will write, then the party or party leaders' judgment is revealed. Then it results in the interrelation of the law and the law and the pressure of one another, especially the execution, to create a pressure on the law. This concludes the fact that the 82 Constitution and the laws following it have not been changed, even the opposition parties, did a study on it and did not bring it to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which I have just tried to explain. So especially with a lot of experience, friends with no Parliament experience, young friends, sometimes, unfortunately, they can get out of control to get notes from their viewers. In that respect, I ask all my fellow lawmakers to excuse our friend in the incident just now. I'd like to make one more point in particular. Today, the Near East, you can call it the Middle East, no matter how geographically you describe it, this region is being restructured. Long ago, whether we wanted to or not, especially after the First Gulf War, the region is in the process of restructuring, and they are now in the final stages. In such an environment, this Parliament must account for Turkey's external problems and internal problems in our country. If it's not done, there's a saying again from the March 1st that I said on behalf of the AK PARTY, that either you're going to be an actor at that table or you're going to be a card at that table, it's our choice. Now, there's actually a movement in our country involving civilians, an armed movement. Hundreds but hundreds of children, women, old men are dying. The people there are our citizens, people like you, me, who carry this country's birth certificate. If you or we as the government don't respect those people, if we try to discipline them with hunger and their dead, believe me, we will divide this country, and the environment today is headed that way. I want to warn you one more time. I talked about this in 2008 at the Central Executive Board, and I repeat today: we are at a very critical point, both inside and outside. We have to keep our unity and unity in peace. Otherwise, I'd like to express my regret that we won't be able to go beyond being cards at that table that was set up. Dear friends, my time is getting shorter, but I believe that I salute you all separately because I have the opportunity to express myself, whether it's short or simple. We don't have to love each other, but we have to respect each other. By comparison, I believe that if we conduct our studies, we will be able to serve this country in a more comfortable environment -- the 1st, 2th, 3th, 3th -- we will have the opportunity to capture the presence of that Assembly. My respects, thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0282par0205	Thank you, Mr. Firat. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bkent Kuşoğlu, Ankara MP... Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Kusoglu, you also have a request to speak for yourself. That's why I'm combining the timeline for the two students. Your time is 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0283par0211	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I made a promise to my group about the Law Bill, whose number is 60. I wish you well now. First, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to start with a joke. My friend from the ruling party, the Plan and Budget Commission, just told me something. I had to tell that joke on him. Now, they sit down with Dursun in Tripoli Square, and they chat. There was a tourist at the time, and I think he's going to the Sumela Monastery, but he doesn't know the way. (...) They couldn't answer. (...) He asked German, asked French, asked Spanish, asked Italian; in five different languages. The foundation said: "Ya, the man has embarrassed us." Look at him, the five-tongues. He said, "Why should we be embarrassed?" What's with the five-tongues? He couldn't explain a problem. Now, we're at the Plan and Budget Commission in the morning, and we're trying to explain it all the time here, and we can't talk about it, and we can't talk about it, and we're embarrassed, and we're embarrassed, but... Well, this is the wrong way to make a law, my dear friends, it doesn't work like this, it doesn't work like this, it doesn't work like this. This is not the way to live, to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The 5th draft law came to the Plan and Budget Commission, one of which was a temporary budget, four of which came as a bag of law; from many different laws various provisions, substances are changing. They're all being discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission, and they're all being considered as the basic law here. There's no way we can pull this off, make a law like this, realize what's going on, and there's no way that the judge, the prosecutor, the lawyer, and the citizen who's doing this can't figure out what it is. That's not an understanding, and that's no way to make a law. The bill is coming, the relevant public enterprises are coming from the government -- they need to have opinions, they don't have opinions, they don't have opinions of relevant public institutions, they don't have professions or NGOs, they don't. If that's not in the bill, what's the rest of it? In connection with this meeting, there is an offer signed by 35 lawmakers with the first signature of a group of vice presidents from the ruling party. The reason, the reason for the bill and the proposal, the actual motive and the reason for the substance, there's no difference in one letter. So that's a motive, a law proposition? Is that ethical, is that true? Who can say yes to that? Is that an understanding? You're making an offer, think about it, the bill that comes in is the same as the general reason and reason of the substance, and so are the materials. And it's being processed. Is that possible? There's no explanation, there's no logic, there's no right side to that. Well, that can't happen, so maybe the vice president himself didn't notice, but unfortunately, that's the case. And these two proposals aren't combined into a single text on the Plan and Budget Commission. They're doing re-matter claims, they're doing substance abuses for two different items in the proposal. We claim that the Constitution is contrary to the Constitution. One is contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, one is against the Constitutional Court's will, and that is not taken into account. There are experts, there are speakers, there are constitutional experts, there's an apartment called Laws and Decisions, not even with these, it's not discussed, it's not considered. So how do we make a living? What quality are we trying to provide? Is this gonna work? He just told me, my friends, no impact analysis. How much does it weigh in the budget, how much does it weigh? There's nothing to do with any of this. However, what we have brought in is quite rightly -- there is a new public financial legislation, which should be appropriate. We say it all the time, but I'm afraid it can't be fulfilled. Mr. Chaturoglu, my friend from the commission, says, "Okay, this could be wrong, it could be the law - but why are we doing this?" Once we promise the citizen in the election, we have to do it. So let's do it, so not in three months, but in five months. You do it, we'll support it. Something that's wrong isn't supported, we're supporting the right ones. Not in three months, not in five, but in the end. As a result, the citizen wants these things to happen, the citizen wants peace, the citizen wants stability. It's not just those little promises, it's not the little promises you get to pick here. Regarding the citizen's future -- a friend of mine, who had just spoken before me -- wants to hear good things about the future, wants to see the future well, wants to be at peace. Turkey needs unity, integrity; it wants us to deal with its side. Yeah, we're gonna do this, but we're not gonna mess up the law just because we promised you to choose. The rule of law is essential. Mr. Chaturoglu, you must have said that unfortunately. Yes, we're turning them upside down, we're breaking the law, but we're doing this because we promised you to choose. We can't break the law just because we promised. Voter condemns that, voter doesn't want that. Mr. Çaturoglu also said that the opposition blocked the law. What law, for God's sake -- this is my second term, officially my third term -- which law has blocked opposition so far, and has not left? Right, there's not a single one, not one of them has been stopped. I mean, there's no such thing as opposition blocking. There's an absolute power, there's a huge majority of them, all the laws he's ever wanted, all the laws, all the unnecessary laws. Therefore, it is not right to take refuge in such a reason. We have to do whatever it takes to make a law. Yes, as Basal said, we can't explain our problems. Now, dear friends, let me come to this law. That's the first ten items in chapter one. There are important provisions among them, provisions related to the military, the population, the Population and Citizenship Law, and changes are being made about them. We also have concerns about them, and we have expressed them in opposition. We'll tell you when the clauses arrive, but there's a very important ruling, a disgrace, a scandal, and I want to share it specifically with you, a cost-enhancing sentence on the Mining Law. You know, in 2014, we faced a tragic disaster in Soma, 301 of our workers died, unfortunately, the biggest mining accident in the history of Turkey, and after that changes were made in the Mining Law. We said, "No more killings like this, let's make some changes." And with the changes we've made, we've doubled the minimum wage, and we've reduced the working time in the mines, underground, from 45 hours to 37 and a half hours, all of us, this Parliament has done it. Of course, there's been a rise in costs, but there's been a lack in the bill, in fact, in the law proposal, about the costs being paid. This amendment in Article 29 -- we are doing it in addition now -- has only been covered by a public license, a license of TKI and TTK, but a job in the private sector, a redevance business. However, there's a mistake there: there were 186 mining businesses in early 2014, 16 of which were owned by the public, run by agreements made by TTK and TKI, and the licenses of the remaining 170 mining companies were owned by the private sector. This 170 mining enterprises were taken out in a hurry for people only owned by the public, but run by the private sector, and there were huge losses of labor in 170 mining businesses. Eleven thousand and a half workers working, and it's down to 5,000 and more workers working here. Many mines have been closed, there's been trouble. Now we're going to redefine a Mining Law to make up for it. Why? Because, on that date, it was removed in a hurry, even for someone else at that time. What kind of people was he taken out for? Dear friends, not a year has passed, and I've made a motion here last semester to ask about our Energy Minister. I'd also like to give you a brief piece of information on that motion. Now, after the Soma disaster, we got some information. I also spoke to the Minister of Energy at the time, and it's been confirmed. I made a motion, I asked him in a letter, I asked him about these issues in the Ministry of Energy, and then I wrote a letter to the commissioners about the situation and so on. I mean, I did a very detailed study and prepared my genome. The point was simply: Two companies -- especially two companies -- signed with TİKI (in Soma) -- then extended their contracts on the same day, on the same day. Coincidentally, they both have a contract extension on the same day, just before the mining accident, the Soma accident, but the contract comes with an extension board decision; there is a Public Contracts Act 4735, which is in line with it, which is not more than 20 per cent, it has to extend contracts and it has to be in accordance with its own direction, and it has to be with the board's decision. These are not in question, just the general manager is preparing a protocol on the extension of the term, which is extended to these companies, and they are given the authority to extract more coal than the original contracts, and there is a $2 billion job here at least $2 billion -- that is, with today's money. There's a huge corruption, and these companies were then given this excuse again, and they were added to the cost difference law. Look, do you know how one of those firms managed to run this stuff during that time? $180 million was paid to these companies, to these companies that were favoured. One in particular -- $100 million, 99 million, 960,000 lira -- was made for one of these companies. 100 million liras paid in addition. However, the minimum wage was already a profiting company, even twice as much, because it had to produce 1.5 million tons, and it was producing 5.5 million tons, 6 million tons, 7 million tons, and it was producing abnormally. He was making illegal production, disregarding the health of the worker, disregarding the safety of the work. For him, there's a lot of production. Now, based on production, we pay the cost difference. But why did we bring this law? We're bringing this in so there's no job loss, but what do we do? It's for production. In private sector companies or TTK companies, production is not much, but in private sector firms, which have a large majority of the production contract with TKIEST, they are making huge differences. This firm received close to $550 million this year. Costs -- I don't mind -- about 100 million liras. Look, it's about $100 million. There's an anomaly, there's an injustice, there's an unfair gain, there's a illicit gain, and there's another one today. Why are we making this law? So the workers don't come out. So we have to figure out the cost per worker, we have to support it, but we keep it, we encourage production again. However, the production was wrongly done. It's done too much already, it's not considered occupational health. According to the worker, it needs to be produced and encouraged, and our support should be for the workers. Unfortunately, it's the same mistake here, another company being favoured. There will be another loss of employment, another disgrace, another scandal, one of my dear friends. I offer this especially to your attention, to your attention again, to your consciences. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0284par0231	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Second speaker on behalf of Salih Cora, Congressman of Tripoli. Here you go, Mr. Cora. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0285par0236	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the first chapter of the underlying Law Proposal 60. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we have made historical reforms and investments during our government. In particular, we have eliminated a number of crude, obsolete, and no longer functioning practices in public institutions and institutions, replacing them with many projects that fit technology and standards of the age. Each time, we have eliminated all of the practices that have been subject to the complaints of our citizens, causing many difficulties and obstacles. In particular, by removing a number of practices where our citizen was brutally victimized at the gates of the state, we actually turned the doors of the state into e-state doors. With electronic government applications, many previously used paper procedures have now been done electronically and have been given a lot of conveniences. With both e-government applications and online applications, we've redesigned from scratch in many institutions. The consumer information system, which has been implemented by our Ministry of Customs and Trade, or simply known as the TÜBIS, is a faster and more efficient method to meet consumer demands. Again, Turkey's first and most important public safety telecommunications project, JEMUS (JEMUS) and it has been greatly facilitated to coordinate military operations in public affairs, social events and natural disasters, and again with the Gendarme Integrated Communications and Information System Project. In the same way, many of the transactions on the deed with TAKBIS are now set up so that it can be easily done by the online system before the citizens can go to the property offices. As the FATIH Project begins to implement, we will also remove the book load on our students' backs in training. The registration process of the SUSBIS and the zero vehicles will be provided electronically from authorized vendors without asking the owners for documents. Along with the DAP Project, over 2.5 million documents were electronically scanned and indexed along with the digital archive system. Again, with the UYAP system, one of the most important of them, along with the National Judicial Network Project, judges, lawyers, prosecutors and citizens have made significant progress in carrying out justice services and accelerating the judiciary, and it continues with success. Dear friends, these things didn't happen easily. With the constructive reforms we've done in every field, we've established more viable and sustainable systems today. Now, we're going to add another one to these. One of the laws discussed in our commission is to switch to biometric ID cards. New biometric identity cards, developed by TÜBITAK, followed by the Department of Population and Citizenship Affairs, will now be part of our lives. With our new chip biometric ID cards, we will save time and energy by reducing the workload of many institutions. The new biometric identity cards, which bring a lot of innovation, will now have a more modern look, and will be able to move with the size of a credit card. Thus, the prospect of destruction, weariness, and weariness will be reduced, and the material burden, which has often been renewed, will be somewhat eliminated. The countries where our citizens can travel without visas will be allowed to travel with only these new identity cards without passports. It will no longer be possible to fake a missing identity card, provided high-level protection with vascular and fingerprints and palm security cards. Biometric identification cards, which will begin to be used with developing technology, will provide many conveniences in all areas by offering them to the service of our people. I think the law that's being discussed in this sense is in the interest of society... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...as I express my views in this regard in favour of the law, I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0286par0249	Thank you, Mr Cora. Talks on the first part of the proposal are completed on behalf of groups and individuals. Now, I'm going to do a question-and-answer procedure on the department for 15 minutes. I share 15 minutes of time equally between questions and answers. Yes, I'm starting the question process. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0287par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many laws have been changed within the current 60 rows of law? My second question is this: I tried to come to you and explain to you in medicine; Law 210 says that the price of the birth certificate is $8.00, and here is used as a symbol of the wallet of the population; and it is referred to in the following article in Article 8 (in Article 5490) and in the Law of Population Services (in Law 5490). So the use of the concept of the identity card, the concept of the identity wallet, in a law laid out by the law, raises a confusion in the practice, and why don't we correct it? In other words, it is said in Article 3 of the bill: The price of the population wallets is 8 TL until December 31, 2016. So, how much is this going to cost after the 12th month?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0288par0258	Mr. Ok.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0289par0259	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Minister a particular question about the Balıkesir region where I've been chosen. Kepsut and Dursunbey districts of Balıkesir, forest villages, rural neighborhoods, as it were called, almost no children left in our villages, so our villages are completely empty. What kind of work do they have in these forest villages to keep the villagers in place? In particular, forest villages such as Kepsut and Dursunbey are in poverty and poverty. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0290par0262	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0291par0263	Mr. Secretary, unemployment is booming in Bursa. The unemployment rate across Turkey is between 10 per cent and 11 per cent, and the rate is very high in Bursa. In recent times, the rate has increased with the migration of Syrian citizens. Syrian immigrants are considered a cheap labor force, which leads to the expulsion of current employees. In parallel with unemployment, crime rates, suicides and divorce cases are also increasing greatly. Do you, as a government, have a solution plan for Bursa? Do you have any work to improve employment?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0290par0264	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0292par0265	Thank you. My question is to the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you are well aware of the geographical structure of the Black Sea. As a result of heavy snowfalls and long rains, the Black Sea, unfortunately, has many landslides in our landslide. In our Giresun, there were landslides and landslides in Giresun, as a result of the rapid melting of snow last week's snow. One of the landslides took place in Çanakçı district, Düzköy village, Karamağ neighborhood, while five homes were buried in the ground, while 20 houses were evacuated on the grounds of a landslide risk. The previous day, Bulancak district, the landslide in Kovanlık district, has been damaged by a citizen of ours, and the route between the district and the city has been closed for four days. It's confirmed by the governor that this route won't open in a month. Fortunately, these landslides never lost their lives. However, it has affected the lives of our citizens in a negative way, causing them financial harm. In this case, I'd like to make sure that the negativity is...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0293par0269	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0294par0270	Thank you. On the 4th anniversary of his death, Denktas, the insufferable defender of Turkish Cypriots, codenamed to "Toros" (Torros). And what happened to the Cotton Dam, which you said, you laid the foundation between Mersin Tarsus and Çamlıya and their counties, and I will open at 13.13 p.m. on October 2013? When do you plan to open? In addition, in my constituency, a company that pays $722 billion a year in taxes to the state, which has 50 trillion euros per year, has been seized for a small debt of only 83 lira, and all its vehicles and accounts have been seized. Our friends here are describing the beauty of the e-state. What will you do to correct these mistakes? He says thank you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0295par0275	Mr. Karbük...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0296par0276	Thank you, Mr. President. Although 2015's central budget deficit was set at $21 billion at the beginning of last year and extra $33 billion off interest, such was passed through the 2015 budget, last week's deposit was announced in cash, and the treasury balance was reported to be $17.1 billion short. Since the treasury's cash balance figures are roughly parallel to the budget deficit, isn't that what the budget deficit figures are supposed to be? So what's the real budget deficit? So the national income rate of the central budget deficit does not rise from 0.7 per cent to 1.7 per cent, as reported? The statement shows the difference between the budget deficit from parliament and budget grants. On the other hand, in the 2015 start-up budget, non-interested spending was listed as $418.9 billion, but when the treasure was made in cash, it cost off the interest of 497.4 billion...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0297par0279	Mr. Kara...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0298par0280	Thank you, Mr. President. I have two questions, number one: Public hospital average in Antalya province is below the Turkish average. There are still no public hospitals in our districts such as Aksu, Kepez, Iconium, and Landing. Do you have any work on this? Second question: we have a very intense demand coming to us. The insurance premiums and the premiums for the locals have gone up too much, we can't pay it, our business owner says. Do you have any work on getting the raises back?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0299par0283	Mr. Bay... Mr. Tor...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0300par0285	Thank you. My question is about my election circle, Heromarash. Mr. Secretary, my election circle is Kahramanmarash, with forest and water potential in front of our country. In particular, it would be no exaggeration to say that there are untamed forests in the central, Andirın and Göksun districts. There are great mountains here covered with forests like paintings. The heromarash also has a suitable climate for forest growth. Even so, some forest plants have been planted in recent years, but they are not enough. In particular, the northern counties have large vacant sites. Would you consider giving the heromarash a special consideration for the tree plant of the forest? Can you make an effort, do you have a plan? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0301par0289	Mr. Fit...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0302par0290	Thank you, Mr. President. The Izmir Çifli Training and Research Hospital, opened just before the June 7th elections, was still a clinic in the 8-10 clinic room for eight months. It has also been announced that this hospital will be employed at another educational and research hospital. Is there another example of a hospital opened in this position? The doctors of İzmir Alsancak State Hospital have been unable to look at many patients quickly for nearly two months, and performance revenues are also dropping. How many minutes is it considered that physicians should give a patient a time of humanity and science? The 30-year pension of a physician is $2,200. Is it considered to correct this shameful situation? In the same way, will the value of our nurses, another important part of the medical team, be given to them? The additional indicators have been upgraded from 3,000 to 3,600, and...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0303par0296	Yes, Mr. Secretary, I give you my word, sir. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0304par0297	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, thank you. Mr. Tanal, of course, we've just met with you in particular, is there any difference between an identity card and a birth certificate? But there's a substance somewhere that says there's an identity card, and we think maybe he can figure it out. In that respect, it would be a good thing to take him into consideration. Nine laws have been changed by this law, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0305par0300	Sir, ten.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0304par0301	Balıkesir MP Mr. Ok... We support the forest villagers. In particular, I went to Balıkesir several times last year, three times. In particular, indeed, we need to raise the forest villagers in that area. We've got 28 action plans for that purpose, and I'll give you that information about the jungle villagers. Once, we don't just plant pines and so forth in broken forest areas like we used to, especially almonds, walnuts, peanut pines, even olives, we've just started working on olives. Because I really agree with you, so people in that area need to make a living in their place. In fact, it's a good idea for all the MPs to know that we're planting the most affordable species in the corrupt forest areas, and you're in the neighborhood... of course, elsewhere, we're drawing parcels and handing them out equally. Three years of maintenance is all for the Ministry and its income belongs to the citizens for forty-nine years. I'd like to stress that in particular. I mean, you have to keep it in place. Mr. Aydın, of course, right now industry, agriculture, tourism is especially important. We have prepared a natural tourism, mountain tourism master's plan for all of Uludağ and Bursa to reduce unemployment in Bursa, not just winter tourism, but permanent tourism. For once, we'll develop tourism. We also build all the dams and ponds that can be built for agriculture in Burma. As a matter of fact, we built many dams and ponds. We want to improve agriculture. I think his industry has already improved enough. So we want to increase employment, reduce unemployment. Mr. Bektaşoglu, the matter of the landslide is very important. I mean, I know the area pretty well myself, we've been there many times. In fact, I came up with this issue at the AFAD Supreme Council meeting -- and I'm a member of the Supreme Council in AFAD. So it's not just our Ministry's issue, it's a matter of many municipalities, private administrations, major cities and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, and all the ministries. We'll discuss this matter alone at the next AFAD meeting. If you guys have any advice, please let me know, we need to take care of this together. However, we have now done a study of avalanches and landslides in some areas, Tripoli and Rize. Hopefully, I'll present it to you, and we'll have a meeting with AFAD. We'll open these roads soon.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0306par0306	The hive road hasn't opened in a month.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0304par0307	Okay, I'll follow him, Congressman; you're right, I'll follow him and I'll see the governor. Let's get him open, and we'll back him up if we have to, sir. Thank God there is no loss of life, and we are glad for him; thank God he has not lost his life. Sir, Mr. Lightning, as you know, we build several dams, ponds, such as the Interrogation Dam and Cotton Dam to Mersin. In fact, we solved the water problem of Mersin Tarsus with the new lines of Jesus. Construction on this Cotton Dam is now moving rapidly. There's a problem with the contractor. I give you my word that you will either question or finish the Cotton Dam.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0307par0309	I have a question about e-accession.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0304par0310	Mr. Karbüyük, for once, in particular, you know, we're really Turkey about Maastricht Criterians, and especially in terms of the non-national rate of debt, we're a country in the best position in the world. In that respect, we're doing very well this year when you actually look at other countries, even European countries, in the open. I mean, we thought it was 7 in a thousand, but you didn't mention 7 in a thousand, you mentioned 1.7 in a thousand. I'll see to him with the Treasury Department, of course. We'll answer you in writing, and I don't have those numbers in my head right now. But in economics, I'd like to say that we've closed this year very well -- I mean 2015 -- so we've closed the business in a very convenient way. When we look at other European countries, even Japan, our situation is extremely good, and it's very flattering. Mr. Kara, you specifically mentioned bed capacity in Antalya Province. Sir, we've traveled a great distance in health all over Turkey, no one can deny that. There used to be wards, and now hospitals like five-star hotels have been opened all over Turkey. There may be some missing, of course we'll complete them, so I wrote them down. What county...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0308par0312	The one with the money is leaving.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0304par0313	Sir, his room is not important. We've moved from the ward to a particularly modern system.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0309par0314	Mr. Secretary, Kepez has 500,000 populations, no public hospital.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0304par0315	I'm also a man who knows Antalya. I'm sorry. As a person who walks from Gazipaşa to Finike, I say: Antalya is much better in health than before, there is a university hospital.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0309par0316	Is there a hospital in Kepez?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0304par0317	Mr. Tor, in particular Kahramanmarash, we've started a really big mobilization campaign. This year, we've declared a farming campaign, especially in some areas. Hopefully, we'll plant the open areas in Kahramanmarash. In fact, if there are areas that you recommend, together... let's work together to make Turkey more beautiful, to leave a greener Turkey for future generations. In fact, if there are any areas that you would recommend...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0310par0319	Mr. Secretary, I'm going to turn on your microphone, sir. Finish your words.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0304par0320	You specifically mentioned northern counties. So wherever they're missing, if there's an open area, let's plant them. But here's the thing: in the woods, we do the wooding right away in areas that belong to us, but some areas have been declared a mera in the past. We can't interfere with Mera, but we've signed a protocol with the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. We said, "Let's divide the ceremonies into 3/; let's keep them in bestiality; let's keep them in that merch; let's keep them corrupt; if they're used in livestock, let's reform both our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism; and let's take them out of the steep, stone, rocky places that can't be used as a mera; let's give them to us, and let's give them to us as a tree. That's what's happening in a lot of cities right now. They're probably areas that look like mera. If you'll point me in the right direction, we'll follow up on the area, the county, as far as he's concerned. Thank you very much, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit04spe0311par0323	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm taking a break from the merger until 9:15 p.m.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0311par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal No. 60. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of the Law to some Laws and Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Satiya Sadi Bilgiç and Vice President of Justice and Development Party Group Chair Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs, 35 MPs, and the Law Proposal for Changes in some Laws, shall be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Attor Bihlun Tamaylıgil Mahmoud Tanal Ancient Durmaz Tulip Bornt Kuşoğlu Selin Sayek Böke MADDE 1-21/6/1927 and Article 1111 of Article 1 of Article 1 of the Military Law have been changed in the following way and its third joke has been dismissed. "As a worker, or as an employer or as an employee, or as an artist, except for periods of time spent in the country, in total, for at least three years in foreign countries, under the Law of Reserve Officers 1076 and Reserve Military Officers, who are subject to the Law of 1076, are subject to the service of military service in accordance with documents which they are bound by Turkish consulates to prove their status by the end of the year 38," he said. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first amendment of Article 1 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. Argi Erdem Mehmet Günal Erhan Usta Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir Mustafa Mit ADDDE 1-21/6/1927 and Article 1111 of Article 1 of Article 1 of the Military Law have been changed as follows, the following joke added as a second joke and the third joke removed. "The law, which is found in foreign countries for a total of at least three years -- except for periods of time spent in the country -- as an employer, or as an employer -- has been allowed to live or work -- and is subject to the Code of Reserve Officers 1076 and Reserve Military Officers, in accordance with documents that prove their status by the end of the year 38, is to apply for military branches through Turkish consulates, which they are bound by the Turkish consulates, and in accordance with the regulation of 1,000 euros or recipro." "Those of Turkish citizens who carry out all the following conditions are considered to have done military service by applying for military branches through our foreign diplomatic missions in which they are engaged. A) Being born abroad or living abroad with a foreign residence and/or working permit to live until the age of law enforcement, or becoming a citizen of another country until the age of law enforcement. B) you have lived in a foreign country for at least half the age of your application. C) To complete at least five years of legal training in a foreign country until the age of a tyrant. ) Still living abroad as of the application date." Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first article of the current 60 rows of the Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Erol Dora Dilek Öcalan Berdan Özturk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0312par0042	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0311par0043	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0313par0044	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0311par0045	On the motion that the Commission and the government disagree, Mr. Erol Dora, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0314par0048	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 1st amendment to the Military Law and some laws. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the amendment to Article 1 shall go to organise fees from citizens living abroad for exchanges and military service. However, this arrangement does not provide a permanent solution in any way. In the current case, most of society does not benefit from foreign currency or the possibility of paying military service from time to time. Honorable MPs, there are millions of citizens in Turkey who do not want to serve and are forced to be armed. Such regulations are presented only as a solution to the military issue with the populist approach of current political power. The fundamental problem, as we have stated, is to make it possible for citizens who do not want to serve in public service, to be forced out of the state of military service and to have a right to conscientious rejection in the eyes of the European Court of Human Rights. It is a concept of 19th and 20th centuries when the concepts of the military, the nation's state, and the national sovereignty are decisive in international relations. Therefore, in recent years, some countries in the European Union have chosen to give up their mandatory military service, while all of them accept conscientious objectivity as a right. Dear lawmakers, it is not a secret that thousands of military-age citizens each year strive to delay this obligation as much as possible, while citizens whose economic situation is good hope for alternative exemptions, such as paying military service. On the other hand, we observe debates about the beginning of mandatory military abandonment in Europe, the adoption of conscientious objectiveism in all Western countries, the adoption of protests by international organisations to Turkey, the reorganisation trends of the Turkish Armed Forces, and the rising of practices in Turkey behind the age of mandatory military and conscientious rejection, and in light of global developments. Dear lawmakers, the right of citizens in all European Union countries today has been guaranteed in the laws. Again, near all of these countries, citizens are given the opportunity to serve alternative public services as alternatives to military service under arms. In these countries, conscientious objectors offer custody services in hospitals, civil society organisations, education and charities, immigration offices, rehabilitation centers, fire departments and rescue organizations. It is clear that democracy is restricted to individuals and communities in countries with mandatory, non-alternative and long-term military practice. In another way, in a state-personal relationship, the state's obligation to military service for its own demands and interests is to bring individual freedoms into a restrictive mentality. Dear lawmakers, military service in many countries has been restructured in line with transformations in the armed forces. While some countries move to professional service, the military term in some countries is shortened, while the number of chartered soldiers in the armies is relatively increased. With democracy's development and freedom demands rising, the state-society and state-personal relationship must also experience transformation. This transformation also tends to extend rights demands in favour of democracy and freedoms. An important phase of this trend should be the restructuring of the military institution. When we examine our Constitution today, it also seems that military service is not necessarily necessary. In this respect, as the European Court of Human Rights has made, it is clear that the right to conscientious objection is a universal right, and that we can only be content with legal regulations to recognize it. In view of these, today, in our age, in the 21st century, the European Court of Human Rights says that it must be removed from being mandatory with legal regulations, with respect to the General Assembly, again.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0315par0057	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0316par0059	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0315par0060	As you submit the motion to your votes, you've been asked for a sufficient number of decisions. So I'm going to call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first amendment of Article 1 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. Altruism (Istanbul) and its companions ADDDE 1-21/6/1927 and Article 1111 of Article 1 of Article 1 of the Military Law have been changed as follows, the following joke added as a second joke and the third joke removed. "The law, which is found in foreign countries for a total of at least three years -- except for periods of time spent in the country -- as an employer, or as an employer -- has been allowed to live or work -- and is subject to the Code of Reserve Officers 1076 and Reserve Military Officers, in accordance with documents that prove their status by the end of the year 38, is to apply for military branches through Turkish consulates, which they are bound by the Turkish consulates, and in accordance with the regulation of 1,000 euros or recipro." "Those of Turkish citizens who carry out all the following conditions are considered to have done military service by applying for military branches through our foreign diplomatic missions in which they are engaged. A) Being born abroad or living abroad with a foreign residence and/or working permit to live until the age of law enforcement, or becoming a citizen of another country until the age of law enforcement. B) you have lived in a foreign country for at least half the age of your application. C) To complete at least five years of legal training in a foreign country until the age of a tyrant. ) Still living abroad as of the application date." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0317par0074	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0315par0075	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0318par0076	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0315par0077	Mr. Arzu Erdem, MP of İstanbul who wants to talk about a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0319par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I salute the High Council. This week, White Cane Blind Week. I strongly advise you to attend the Traveling event in the Dark. A mother who couldn't see what a difficult obstacle the visual barrier was. He asked me if I had a child and I said I had one. He told me I had one, but I never saw my child. I said, "You see with your heart." My wish is that the consciences of those who can see and can't see move to open their eyes. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the First Amendment, the First Amendment, and the First Amendment. Dear MPs, in order to increase the prosperity and peace of our beloved Turkish nation, to meet expectations and demands of our entire nation, we have given every kind of support as the National Movement Party, and we will continue to give it. Those living abroad who have the criteria set in the bill have been envisioned to reduce the price of 6,000 euros or foreign money, which they must pay to make it look like they have served military services, to foreign currency, or to foreign currency, for 1,000 euros. The ruling party argues that it has made this arrangement in order to keep our citizens living abroad in the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey. As a matter of fact, this is making our country difficult in the international arena. For our citizens of the country living abroad, the priced military was 10,000 euros earlier. This has been reduced to 6,000 euros and will now be reduced to 1,000 euros. This gradual decline first confuses, seems inconsistencies. Rather than fear of losing its citizens, it can be viewed, unfortunately, as an arrangement of voter anxiety. However, the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey is not something that can be bought and sold with money, it is a glorious, honorable identity. We all know what sacrifices our nation has made on its path to independence, and that it has finally come to power with the Instance March. We also know how a whole nation, with its seven-to-seven women and men, defeated the enemy, thought invincible by the spirit of unity and unity. We all grew up with heroic legends written in Çanakkale and Anatolia. I have those feelings, and I'm honored to have them. We, as the National Movement Party, insist and express our faith that we will not violate our homeland as our economist did not abandon its homeland to the enemies. We must keep that faith, unity, and unity. I was also born abroad and spent a period of time living there in love with the country, the nation and the flag. Even though I was able to, I didn't become a German citizen, and I'm sure all of our brothers living abroad have the same feelings as I do. Such costs in exchange for citizenship are not deterrent, nor are they decisive. These different prices also create injustices between those who have paid high prices before and those who have benefited from the last low price. Those who have paid by now will not be repaid for their differences. I want to ask you: What was the crime of those who paid 10,000 euros? Isn't it another injustice when we're trying to correct injustice? Of course, we have many Turkish brothers and sisters who are having problems abroad. While struggling with economic challenges, they, on the other hand, have to live in longing, far from home. One of the major problems of these brothers is, of course, military service. We, the National Movement Party, would like to make this arrangement equal in the name of our nation. Our wish is that this arrangement, which will cover 575,000 people, will be done equally and fairly in the name of the representation of the common interests of our beloved nation. I end this by saying to all our brothers and sisters abroad that we are their voices and hearts, and that as the National Party of Action, we will also be the contenders for the solution to all their problems. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0320par0092	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of the Law to some Laws and Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Satiya Sadi Bilgiç and Vice President of Justice and Development Party Group Chair Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs, 35 MPs, and the Law Proposal for Changes in some Laws, shall be changed in the following way. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends MADDE 1-21/6/1927 and Article 1111 of Article 1 of Article 1 of the Military Law have been changed in the following way and its third joke has been dismissed. "As a worker, or as an employer or as an employee, or as an artist, except for periods of time spent in the country, in total, for at least three years in foreign countries, under the Law of Reserve Officers 1076 and Reserve Military Officers, who are subject to the Law of 1076, are subject to the service of military service in accordance with documents which they are bound by Turkish consulates to prove their status by the end of the year 38," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0321par0101	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0320par0102	Do you agree? That's what I figured.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0321par0103	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0322par0104	No, no, no. That's not true. I mean, was there pressure, was he back?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0320par0105	Dear lawmakers, since the Commission does not have a majority, cannot attend according to our Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0322par0106	Sir, would that happen? It's his will.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0320par0107	Sir, such a sentence is not true according to the Civil Code. The commission's representative can only refuse according to Article 45 of the Civil Code. The majority of the Commission must be here to be accepted.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0322par0108	Mr. President, you're leading, Mr. Speaker has joined.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0323par0109	Maybe he was going to call the Commission.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0322par0110	I mean, was he under pressure or was there a threat? Why did you break your promise?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0324par0111	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0325par0112	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0324par0113	Mr. Aytuğ Atici, Mersin MP on the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0326par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment on the 60th draft of the Military Law and on the motion we made regarding the 1st Amendment to the Amendment of some Law and Law. I salute the lawmakers who keep their promise, so that they can protect their honor and honor. Dear friends, I'd like to ask you a question: would you believe the Prime Minister if he made a promise? Normally, everyone has to believe it, love it, love it, like its ideas, dislike it, is the Prime Minister of this country, and when he makes a promise, you have to believe it. However, the Prime Minister has broken his own credibility by failing to keep his promise. It's none of my business, he knows, he can damage his own credibility, but it's damaged the dignity of the prime minister's office, and it's caused the politicians to lose confidence. Our people have been strongly accusing politicians of lying. That's what we're worried about. Remember what the Prime Minister said: "There will be no more bags of legislation." So, what happened? Almost all the laws, the law that we're talking about right now, have come to us in the form of a bag offer, and I regret it. I mean, if the Prime Minister does that, if the President does that, it doesn't really matter what other politicians do, the public has lost their trust. Now, what are you organizing with item 1? You're saying that if the total pays 1,000 euros in the foreign country for at least three years, it will be considered a military service. There are two things that bother us here. One: why is the currency a euro? Why? If you don't use the Turkish Republic's currency, why do you use the euro? You don't trust our currency? You don't trust our economy? I thought we had a strong economy, the state of the Republic of Turkey was a powerful state, so why don't you trust our currency? Actually, you're right not to, because you know as well as we do that the economy isn't going well. When 6 zeros were thrown out of Turkish lira, let's all remember that you had drumming, that's the economy. At the time, remember, $1.1 was equal to 1 euro. In fact, banks didn't even charge transactions to change the currency. It's only been 12 years. At the end of 12 years with AKP governments, now 1 euro is still equal to 1 dollar, but 1 euro or $1 is more than $3. I don't have to say anything else about it. You admit that our economy is not strong and you don't trust our money. The second thing that bothers us is that you're getting paid military service abroad, domestically. And those who can't pay it, you send them to their deaths. Well, that's what's bothering us. The Constitution says that the public service is the right and duty of every Turk. It can't do without money. It doesn't say that. If you try to get paid soldiers to do military service for those who don't have money or want to do military service, you have to find solutions, you have to make solutions, so you have to make equality, but we all know what you understand about equality. What can you do? You can get students to do military service during summer vacations. You can make a long-term payment. You can get community service instead of barracks. If he's really poor, you may never get paid, but you're making the distinction here as usual. I mean, you're causing citizens to get emotionally separated from the government, and you're wasting it. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0327par0124	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. Members of parliament, there are four motions on Article 2 of the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the interim 53°th clause added to the Military Code 1111 with the framework 2 of the current 60 rows of the Bill of Law. Coshkun Çakır Ramadan Can Osman love Look Abdurrahman Öz Hüseyin Özbaır Gökcen Özdoğan Enç FROM those who applied for foreign military foreign service prior to the time when this clause was in effect, those who carried out the terms specified in Article 1 of the article were considered to have paid for the foreign country in accordance with the regulation of 1,000 euros or more. Those who have not applied for foreign currency until the end of the year when this clause is in effect, until the end of the year when they are 38 years old, and who have been removed from the service of foreign currency due to non-payment due to non-compensation payments, are considered to have carried out a regular military service during the application of 1,000 euros or payment of foreign currency, which will be specified until December 31, 2017. The extra payments made by those involved in the above jokes are not returned. Now I'm going to have two proposals that I'm going to make read in the same way, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of Article 2 of the Law Against some Laws and Laws Act 60 and the amendment of some Laws (1/414) and Isparta MP Satiya Sadi Bilgiç and Vice President of Justice and Development Party Group Chair Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs to some Laws. With all due respect. Murat Minister Bihlun Tamaylıgil Lale Karabık The Ancient Durmaz Mahmut Tanal Selin Sayek Böke The following temporary clause has been added to Law 2-11. FROM those who have applied for foreign military service before the date of the application of this clause, those who carry the terms specified in Article 1 of the article, the foreign country, which is specified in the regulation, or as much as 1,000 euros, has paid for its military service, according to the fact that they have paid for it. The extra payments they make are returned to them. The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Günal Erhan Master Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir Mustafa Mit Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 2 of Law Bill 60 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Erol Dora Dilek Öcalan Berdan Özturk Commission Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0328par0165	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0327par0166	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0329par0167	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0327par0168	Is there anyone who can talk to you about the motion that the government and the Commission disagreed with, or should I give you a reason?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0330par0169	Berdan Ozturk will speak.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0327par0170	Mr. Berdan Ozturk, Ağrı MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0331par0174	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on my party's proposal for the 2nd amendment of the bill. Dear lawmakers, when a legal arrangement is made, when a change is made, it has to be fair, and it has to be done equally to everyone in the same situation. In this article, when we look at it, let him who has money not serve, but who has no money go and serve. It's a completely unfair arrangement, it's wrong, it doesn't apply to law and conscience. There is only one way to resolve this problem, so that the government will recognize the path of conscientious rejection, and the Assembly will step in that direction. What's a conscientious rejection? When we look at a denial of conscience, in its simplest sense, people's moral preferences can be different, they can have different political opinions, in the same way, people may want not to serve because of their religious beliefs; that is their right. Therefore, the institution of conscientious rejection must be judged under the freedom of religion and conscience. As you know, both in the Constitution and in the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as in the Convention on Civil and Political Rights, there is a right to conscientious rejection, religion, and freedom of conscience. In this regard, I would like to stress once again that the appropriate arrangement is the right to a conscientious refusal. Those who do not wish to serve the armies, who are the warkeepers, should not be forced to wear a uniform and be given weapons. Because in this way, the citizen has the right to express his desire to live in a free world, without an army, without borders, without a state, in accordance with his political views and religious beliefs. Taking orders and giving them, obeying them and ruling them, not wanting to be part of a militant structure, not wanting to use violence or killing people, you can't drive citizens to the front for the interests of a bunch of people. You can't say, "Go, be a martyr." You all know very well that in the form of a military nation, a military nation, a man who doesn't do military service, a institution that you reproduce every day in everyday life, with a mind that smells of a manly mind, and a mind that smells of repetitiveness. The recent history of this country is filled with the destruction of the custody regime. Dear lawmakers, the resistance developed by the state against the right to conscientious rejection has to do with the desire to create a militant society from the bottom up, and it has to do with the ongoing medium-density war in the Kurdistan. In particular, in this dirty war over the past 30 years, the mandatory military exercise has been the key to the survival of the war. The war with poor, hardworking people's children, who have always been driven to the frontlines, has been tried to be kept to a sustainable and bearable level of martyrdom. I ask you: Why do poor, hardworking children always die in this war? In this dirty war, how many of the children of the lawmakers have drunk the sherbet of the witness, the children of how many ministers, the children of the generals, the children of the rich, the children of how many rich have been allowed to drink the sherbet? We know that you're all terrified that your children will drink the testimony you've advised their children to drink. The children of the ministers, the screaming MPs, the high-ranking men who operate behind the desk, pay high prices for their military service. And as you know, that's how they do their military service, the price they pay is in dollars, in euros. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Energy Minister wants to be a martyr. Let him go, let him go, let him go, let him go, let him go, let him go, let him go, let him go, let him go, let him go, let him go, let him go, let him go, let him go, let him go, let him go, let If you're so interested in fighting, why don't you send your children there? You're so patriotic that your patriotism is all about preaching and getting paid to serve. They didn't say it for nothing, so the rich pay the price, so our soldiers pay the poor. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0332par0185	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0333par0186	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0332par0187	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, there's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there is a sufficient number of decisions, the motion is not accepted. Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are the same, I'm going to process the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law Proposal be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Erhan Master Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir Mustafa Mit The following temporary clause is added to the Law 2-11. FROM those who have applied for foreign military service before the date of the application of this clause, those who carry the terms specified in Article 1 of the article, the foreign country, which is specified in the regulation, or as much as 1,000 euros or so, has performed military service, according to the fact that they have paid for it. The extra payments they make are returned to them. The signatures of the other motion are: Murat Minister Tule Karbük Ancient Durmaz Mahmut Tanal Yakup Akkaya Bihlun Tamaylıgil Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0334par0207	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0332par0208	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0335par0209	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0332par0210	Kamil Aydın, Erzurum MP of the Commission and the government disagreed. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0336par0214	Dear President, I've come to give you a speech in accordance with the motion we've made to the relevant clause. First of all, I salute all your preparedness. Sir, as with all political actions, we strongly recommend that the government stay away from bilateral policies related to a very serious structure such as the Turkish Armed Forces, such as the national defense. The content of the concept of military service abroad or abroad, even at some cost, has been variable from time to time, with some political debates. I mean, before that, sir, everyone will pay. What is Mehmet's sin? What will Mehmet give? How do we turn around and do the service of Bedelli? What do you want to do, 20 or 15? Until yesterday, again, we've noticed that the structure we've always heard from the mouth of authority has been turned on by a series of hurtful expressions. What was it? From a Turkish Armed Forces who clean their intestines, from the Karton army statements, it's not a place to lie down. We've arrived at the national and domestic point today from derogatory statements. We mean from tradition to future. Yeah, to say that, look at the 46-year history of the National Movement Party, there's a lot of consistency between its rhetoric and its actions. For it is always a move that first puts the interests of the country and the nation first, and the day is not conjunctural. Now, the history of the Turkish Armed Forces being placed on a national and domestic platform is particularly ancient. If you look at the name of Joseph Has Hacib, which you can't even pronounce, Kutadgu Bilig, there are some recommendations for the elders of the state. Here is a very detailed description of the army, the armed force, and many years later, after many centuries, Mustafa Kemal. Therefore, our request today is in this context. We want to re-establish a structure that prioritizes peace, peace, security inside and out. After we've said that, there's a few of us that have come to see some of our troubles. Sir, not only do we have the incentive to send our fellow colonels to retirement, but we have some problems that have actually turned into a bleeding wound in our Turkish Armed Forces. I'm particularly familiar with the Malatya rally, especially with the various political debates of our senior staff, Mr. Prime Minister. On October 28th, he had an additional indicator at the Malatya rally. While we were called, many of our fellow experts complained that we had never received a fee for 2200 additional indicators because the inhibitor within the same structure, sir, was blocked by some of these substances. So we've never been able to get to the first degree, to the first degree, so we'd like to see these brothers and sisters, who are really struggling hard right now, who are willing to put their lives on the line against terror. Otherwise, the situation that is reflected in their salaries, which is caused by this additional indicator, is around $100 in the rankings. Another problem group: Again, we have fellow civil servants working for the Ministry of National Defense or the Turkish Armed Forces. On paper, there is a condition that is subject to 657, but the application has a bisected structure. These friends in particular state that their 232 and 233 are inhibitors. No service descriptions. They're referred to as officers, but they have to do whatever work they want within the institution they're in. These, if necessary, sir, are being tried in military courts, even though Article 145 is a blocker. Another thing is that they have been restored to their rights, and if there is a military service, they've only had a five per cent share of housing -- from 55, 45 per cent officers and sergeants' use -- along with other experts and civil servants. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I want these to be corrected, and I want to reassess the conditions of the disability, and I really want to reassess the definition of "gazity" to be reassembled into a broader, more inclusive, non-victimal structure. I salute the entire grand jury.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0337par0226	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. About the other proposal in the same context Murat Minister, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0338par0231	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly. German poet Goethe says: "I am afraid of ignorance, but I am more afraid of organized ignorance. This is what we live in. Ignorance has been organized, it's the work of half-ignorants who have contributed to the organization of ignorance, the symbol of civilization, the bomb that was detonated in Sultanahmet Square yesterday, and from many beautiful countries to our beautiful country, our beautiful souls have fallen into our ancient land, and I begin with my first speech, bowing down before the memory of this roof. Dear friends, the bomb that went off earlier in Sultanahmet is the continuation of the ignorance bombs that exploded in Suruç, Diyarbakır, Ankara Station, Egypt, Beirut, Paris. Good people in the world stood up for the Paris massacre and did the right thing. In our own geography, in our country, and in our neighbors, we watch the killings like a series of movies. We took his death, his pain, and everything became ordinary. We divide our dead, we race our pain. This is worse than death because the spirit of society is abandoned to death, to despair, to fear. Most of the people who died in Sultanahmet were Germans. Therefore, I would like to continue with a quote from Willy Brandt, the symbol of social democracy. When he received the Nobel Peace Prize, he referred to the painful period of Germany and said, Willy Brandt: "A good German cannot be a racist." Now, I want to repeat from this stand as a social Democrat brother, as your friend: Good people cannot be racists, good people become brothers. Good people of my country, overcome fear and come out. You're more than that, your voice can easily silence and suppress the voice of the wicked. Again, the famous work of the famous German registrar Fasswinder was called: "The Spirit of Fear is the Earth. How fear gnaws at the soul, how it makes a man erod. In this time when fear began to eat our souls in our country, let us, as representatives of the people, not let fear descend into our souls. This is a friendly, perhaps naive wish for my friends, and also for you, my fellow vice-principals. The times when the word "peace" is often used are when tensions and violence rise. It doesn't take a psychologist to understand that governments who can't make peace in their own inner world are relieved by channeling their anger into society. Unfortunately, our geography is experiencing this dire situation. These days, the word "peace" is beyond the language of writers, politicians, intellectuals in our country and in the language of the people. It's extremely meaningful and valuable. We must break down the wall of fear, and listen to the people who cry for peace. The biggest mistake a politician can make is that he always thinks he's right. Whereas right and truth seem to be separate from every spectacle, and politicians who think they're the most right, the most indispensable, are the ones who make this world a prison for humanity. Here is Hitler, Mussolini, Stalin and many others. Let justice and the people decide what's right. For him, everyone must reassess the concepts of righteous war, righteous violence. We have to tell society again that such jargons lead to violence, hatred, hatred. Dear friends, the language between individuals, especially the representatives of the nation in this Parliament, must be the language of peace, dialogue, tolerance. If we don't do this, we don't have the right to expect it from society. We're role models for this community. Let's not waste peace and virtue on this stand for a few seconds of applause. Isn't the word "coven" just a bunch of righteous people? The level of conflict of ideas becomes hope, and the conflict of people becomes network. In modern times, no state, no society, no peace is my concern. Our side is clear, we are on the side of peace. The growth of peace is in the land of humanism. This land, our Anatolian, is the motherland of humanism, and we only have to reach out to the fruits of the trees of humanism that His Majesty, His Majesty, Jonahs, and many wise men sow. The third eye must come into play where reason and reason are not enough. That third eye is the eye of the heart in our culture, dear friends. If we don't show the ability to keep our eyes open, I'm afraid we'll get used to the smell of blood. It would be a disaster for mankind. Dear friends, regarding the law, I would also like to add that the provision that those who have applied for foreign currency in order to benefit from military rights is not right to return the extra amount they have paid. It means that the government is forced to take a price that it doesn't deserve from a citizen based on the law. Thus, the principle of equality of the Constitution is violated by two people in the same situation. This is an approach that will also be dangerous for legal safety and reduce the security of our citizens against the state. Dear friends, I salute the Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0339par0242	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the interim 53°th clause added to the Military Code 1111 with the framework 2 of the current 60 rows of the Bill of Law. Coshkun Cakir (Tokat) and his friends FROM those who applied for foreign military foreign service prior to the time when this clause was in effect, those who carried out the terms specified in Article 1 of the article were considered to have paid for the foreign country in accordance with the regulation of 1,000 euros or more. Those who have not applied for foreign currency until the end of the year when this clause is in effect, until the end of the year when they are 38 years old, and who have been removed from the service of foreign currency due to non-payment due to non-compensation payments, are considered to have carried out a regular military service during the application of 1,000 euros or payment of foreign currency, which will be specified until December 31, 2017. The extra payments made by those involved in the above jokes are not returned. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0340par0252	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0339par0253	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0341par0254	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0339par0255	About the commission's recommendation, the government's motion...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0342par0256	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0339par0257	I'm reading the reason: Since they did not apply for military service until the end of 38 years of age or did not complete their payments, it was intended to allow those who were removed from military service by exchange to be granted military service by paying for 1,000 euros or more regulations. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit to your votes the amendment to the motion that those who don't accept... those who don't... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the third article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of the 60-line Military Law and the amendment of some Laws be changed to (50) of Article 3 (50). Mehmet Günal Kamil Aydın Nuri Okutan Kadir Koçdemir Erhan Master Erkan Haberal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of the Law to some Laws and Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Saziya Sadi Bilgiç and Vice President of Justice and Development Party Group Chair Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; on some Laws Adjudgation Proposal of the Law shall be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Selin Sayek Böke Tulip Yakup Akkaya Erkan Aydın Mahmut Tanal MADDE 3-21/2/1963's ranking of Precious Paper Table (6) added to Precious Papers Law 210 has been changed in the following way. "Six. a) due to birth outside the legal notification period Turkish Republic ID card 5 B) Turkey's Republic of Turkey for change C) Turkey's Republic of Turkey due to loss Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third article of the current 60 rows of the Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Erol Dora Dilek Öcalan Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0343par0297	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0339par0298	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0344par0299	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0339par0300	Garo Paylan, İstanbul MP for the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Paylan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0345par0304	Mr. President, lawmakers, the most important item in the bag law is the identity card of the Republic of Turkey. We'll have new ID cards. We've discussed it a lot in the commission, and we've decided that ID cards shouldn't be part of this bag of legislation, but unfortunately it did. Now, there's a piece of string on the ID cards, the house of religion. The house of religion, in my house -- as you can see, it's probably written differently in a few people in this House, and everybody writes "Muslim" -- I write "Christian" in it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0346par0306	That's what our council cards say.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0345par0307	Ever since I was a kid, when I went to a government office, they'd look in front of an ID card, and here's a name they don't understand, Garo; they'd turn around, Christian, and so I've been discriminated against dozens of times.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0347par0308	Shame on you! That's not true!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0345par0309	If I have to do a job in one day, it's not done in a week or ten days, I've been discriminated against many times.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0347par0310	Does that kind of bullshit suit you?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0345par0311	Now, what we call democracy...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0348par0312	Look, that's what Lausanne does. This isn't discrimination.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0345par0313	If this is going to be a democratic country... not the rights of the majority, but the rights of the few, the rights of the reduced, and the risk of their discrimination is reduced, this will be a democratic country. We've made a motion to remove the religious house, but it's been rejected by AKP MPs, on new identity cards. That's why we became prisoners in the ECHR. In no country of the European Union has an identity card, there is no religion in it, but we are strongly inclined to protect this religious house, for a reason we are condemned. Look, what kind of discrimination does religion cause? This was brought to me after the decision of the ECHR. And when you leave this place empty, they look at the face of the other person, which means they're atheists, like public servants. Let me tell you, apart from this religious dynasty, we have another practice from the Agency of Mahsusa. You know, when you say that the people in Lausanne, the Agency Mahsusa, he applied the genealogical code for the reduced ones in Lausanne, and the genealogical code is still being implemented in the Republic of Turkey. My blood code is the Armenian blood code of two hundred and forty-eight, one of the Greeks, three of the Jews, four of the Suryani. Why does the government keep the generic code? Because when we look at his applications, he's applied the genealogical code to the property tax. My grandfather's assets, my grandfather's assets, who tried to stand up after the genocide, were once again taxed ten times as much as his existence, and the practice of genera code, for example, was used to mark and loot doors on 6-7 September 1955, and the family code is still in effect. Our government should not be dealing with the religion of its citizens. There were religious organizations in the Ottoman Empire, as you say. People used to go to religious organizations, like we go to the Patriarchy, we apply, the Patriarchy baptizes and records a child. Why is the government recording our people in the religious context? Weren't you the one who said, "Let the state withdraw from the field of religion, and let the field of religion be set free?" But look, what you're still defending is that the Court of Religious Affairs is my red line. He can say, he can speak, he can speak. Why? Because he's top-notch. The government has a religion, and it counts it as the original, and it's the red line about the others. From that point of view, as a government, we need to remove the religious house, starting with ID cards, we need to withdraw from the field of religion, and we need to leave the religious area to religious organisation. No more religious digits, no more generic code, no more discrimination, no more discrimination in public offices. We have a motion to this effect, and we're waiting for your support in the moving materials, regarding the religious dynasty, and in the coming days, the application of the genealogical code. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0349par0322	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0350par0324	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0349par0325	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, so I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of the Law to some Laws and Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Saziya Sadi Bilgiç and Vice President of Justice and Development Party Group Chair Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; on some Laws Adjudgation Proposal of the Law shall be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Erkan Aydın (Bursa) and his friends MADDE 3-21/2/1963's ranking of Precious Paper Table (6) added to Precious Papers Law 210 has been changed in the following way. "Six. a) due to birth outside the legal notification period Turkish Republic ID card 5 B) Turkey's Republic of Turkey for change C) Turkey's Republic of Turkey due to loss Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0351par0340	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0349par0341	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0352par0342	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0349par0343	Erkan Aydın, Bursa MP about the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0353par0347	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. I have made a commitment to the first section of the 60th Amendment. There's a fire in the market, and now there's gas on the fire with money to pay for birth certificates. In a country where unemployment, poverty, an avalanche of poverty, a country where workers, an officer, a tradesman, a farmer sheds blood, the government brings forth the air of spring. There was a minimum wage increase on Christmas, and we all supported it. Not enough, we said 1,500, as CHP suggested. The government said $1,300, and passed the law. The next morning, we got up, tax rates were raised, needle to thread, everything went up. What happened? He was sentenced to minimum wage, tight income hunger. The numbers reveal a bitter painting. According to the statistics of the Turkish Statistical Institution and the Ministry of Labour and Social Security statistics, the minimum wage amount of $3.75 per person for three meals is only $1.25 per meal. The poorest 20 per cent spend only 33.7 per cent of their income on food and so on in order to survive. With a wife who does not work and a two-year-old minimum wage minimum-paying monthly income, she has to feed both her husband and her children at 15 lira a day for food. According to TÜİK price statistics, the average rent rate is $666 as of November 2015, whereas only $418 is available for minimum-paying rent and other housing expenses. Under the conditions where a single municipal bus ticket is $1.79 on the average of Turkey -- which is much more in large cities -- the daily share that minimum wage can only be set aside for transport is $3.5. With this income, you can get a one-way ticket. In the last four months of 2015, the hunger limit of a family of four was $1,450 and the poverty limit was $3,966. So the new minimum wage is also below the hunger limit. Now, that's not enough, an identity card is imposed at $8 per person. Unfortunately, the government sees a direct right to citizenship as a revenue pen. According to the bill, the chip card will be distributed to the public at $8 by the end of the year. That's $32 for a family of four. Can a citizen be asked to pay for an identity card, which is a birthright in a social state? Those who can't pay for this will live without an ID card? It's been known to cost around $5 a chip card to distribute. So each citizen will receive more than $3.00. The money our 76 million citizens will pay in exchange for their ID cards is $598 million. Given the cost of the card is $5.00, the citizen will receive an extra $146 million. I wonder where this money will be spent. So I ask you, where are you going to spend the extra income from identity cards? According to Articles (a) and (b) jokes, identity cards of the Republic of Turkey for birth and identity cards of the Republic of Turkey for change have been raised from 8 TL to 15 TL (95 per cent). Dear lawmakers, a significant part of Turkey's population lives in rural areas, with heavy regional and geographical conditions. Many villages, especially in winter, are blocked. Given this rural area, there's no way he can register a newborn baby on time. Not within legal time, there are families who don't make birth certificates for months. Especially in the southeast, it's almost a dream to get a birth certificate out during the days of curfews, violent fighting environments. Now, the government gives another punishment under these difficult conditions, a 95 percent increase in natural rights. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the low-income, minimum-payers have no food, no firewood, no coal on their backs, no coat on their backs. What do you got? It's just a birth certificate. Now the government sees it as a revenue portal. Now I ask you, what will those who can't pay for an identity card do, that the Republic of Turkey will be denied citizenship? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll tell you what's going to happen: as in the game of Saint Nesin, he'll live and live, and his life will not be in the record. Many of our citizens deserve to live humanely. I salute your High Council.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0354par0364	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of the 60-line Military Law and the amendment of some Laws be changed to (50) of Article 3 (50). Nuri Okumutan (Isparta) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0355par0371	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0354par0372	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0356par0373	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0354par0374	Nuri Okuttan, Isparta MP about the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Reader. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0357par0378	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the underprivileged law bill number 60. I salute everyone with respect and respect. Basically, we're talking about an extremely important electronic identity card issue. Since I've been in the profession, entrance exams... a vocational exam in the boardroom has been taken. We're here to discuss the bill of an application that we've encountered on the sub-laws, which we've applied as both governors and governors in the profession, and that we consider a target. From this point forward, I'd like to say that I'm extremely happy, that this is a stage that must be celebrated, to be congratulated, to be absolutely congratulated. And I would like to point out that we support the bill on this electronic identity card. However, the issue is extremely important, and it's important in terms of its budget. After this law passes, we're dealing with a budget that covers about $1 billion, which is just a budget for changing identity cards. We don't include in the electronic identity card system the system for harmonisation of tax ID numbers in other institutions, such as social security ID numbers -- and ID numbers in other units. If we include that, we're discussing a matter of billions of dollars in economic dimensions, but before that, it's important. It's about turning the identity card into a direct identity card. A serious state, a modern state, and a state that says "Development." A state must at least pay attention to two issues. We give ID; we identify the citizen, we establish a relationship with the citizen. Two records need a lot of attention. One of them is land; we have to keep good inventory of all the land within our country, we have to keep good records. What are these records? The deed and the cadastro records. On the other hand, we have to keep good records of our citizens, the citizens living in that country. If we keep these records good, we'll be able to establish the right relations between the citizens and the state, we'll be giving good public services, such as safety, prosperity and education, health care, and we'll be able to maintain interagency relations, the state's efficiency, the public order. Unfortunately, in this seriousness, we don't see the government's side. I'd like to point out from the draft of the law to the delivery of the bill and that there are serious errors in the House until this is assessed. I've made it clear from the top about this draft of the law, and we support it, but we'd like to contribute. That hasn't been assessed in the Internal Affairs Commission. I'm a member of the Internal Affairs Commission. Look, roughly, it's a $3-4 billion job. I'd like to discuss this budget there, ask questions. Now, why has this bill been out of the ministry for over a year? Why does it come up now, such an important bill of law is judged in such a bag of law? I'd like to question that intuitive side of it. Right now, the Local Register Office is supplying us with the population wallets, giving them to the county managers, handing them out to our citizens for $8. Now, how much will the next card be distributed for and by whom? Who's gonna buy this? How will he be tendered? And I'm running out of time, so maybe we'll consider other things. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Here, when we consider the population of about 80 million, it's expected that there will be a card cost of around 10 dollars, only when it comes to the state -- how much is it going to be given to the state -- that's another -- that's $800 million. Every year, the new birth, the renovation of records, the changes in civilized circumstances, the chicken that lays the golden eggs. I'll tell you about it in my other talks, hopefully, if it comes up. I salute everyone with respect and respect.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0388	Thank you, Mr. Reader. There's a suggestion about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Akçay, I give you my word.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0359par0391	Thank you, Mr. President. We propose that our motion on Article 3 shall be changed to ▪115. I'd like to put it on the record...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0393	Yes, Mr. Erkan Akçay has requested that the motion be processed by replacing the proposal's reference to ί15/30/. I'm asking the commission, do you see fit? Do you agree?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0360par0395	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0396	You're giving it credit, of course.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0360par0397	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0398	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0361par0399	Mr. President, we agree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0400	I submit to you the commission's recommendation, the government's motion to vote...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0362par0401	Mr. President, the Commission and the government are under pressure.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0402	...in such a way...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0362par0403	Mr. President, but the Commission and the Minister are under a lot of pressure because they're deciding by looking at the vice president. I mean, please, this is...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0363par0404	Mr. President, how many times have you interfered with the President and the Minister?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0405	Dear friends, look...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0363par0406	So you have to consider the Commissioner's will.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0364par0407	First we remove the pressure on the President of the Commission and the Minister, so let them decide with their own free will.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0408	Dear MPs, I, if the Commission is making a mistake, according to the Civil Code, I have to correct it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0364par0409	But it's not one, it's not two; it's three, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0410	The majority of the Commission must be here in order for the commission to attend.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0365par0411	Then warn them, and let them read some things concerning the Civil Law.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0412	Without it, I agree. It is not possible for the Civil Code to say. The 45th article of the Civil Code is very clear on this matter, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0366par0413	Mr. President, if there was a new clause, we'd need a commission, otherwise we don't need one. I mean, it's clear, it's the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0414	Sir, it doesn't matter.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0366par0415	No, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0416	According to Article 45...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0366par0417	The Civil Code says it's clear. If there was a new clause, you'd be calling in the Commissioners, the Commissioners...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0367par0418	That's right, there's no need for new material, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0419	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0366par0420	I mean, that's not how it works.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0368par0421	Mr. President, let's continue.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0422	One moment, sir...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0369par0423	The Commission's majority of amendment proposals are not required.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0424	According to Article 45 of the Interior Charter, the commissioner is tasked with rejecting any proposal for any change in the commission text, which is not possible according to the Interior Charter. In order for him to participate, the majority of the commission has to be here, so the number that we're saying is enough for the meeting needs to be here. Without that number here, the commissioner, the spokesman, I agree. There's no way to say it. I have to call to remind you of that. That's what I do. I'm making sure it's in accordance with the Civil Code, sir. I submit the motion to your votes in a different way: those who don't accept... those who don't... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the amendments in this direction: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. Members of parliament, there are three motions on Article 4 of the same property. The first two proposals I'm going to read are the same thing, I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the terms of Article 4 of the Law of the Military Law and the amendment of some Laws to the number 60. Mehmet Günal Kamil Aydın İsmail Faruk Aksu Kadir Koçdemir Erhan Master Erkan Haberal The signatures of the other motion are: Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Mahmut Tanal Tule Karabıyuk The Ancient Durmaz Yakup Akkaya Bihlun Tamayligil Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of Law Bill 60 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Erol Dora Berdan Özturk Ayhan Bilgen Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0370par0450	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0451	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0371par0452	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0358par0453	Ayhan Bilgen, Kars MP. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0372par0457	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the fact that military law-making processes are open to civil accession is actually being discussed in international public for about 40 years, and there are mechanisms for this. But unfortunately, in our country, not participation in law-making processes, there's no way we can even have civil supervision of almost actual practice. Although these mechanisms are actually mandatory in the contracts where Turkey is a party, unfortunately these responsibilities are not being fulfilled, but other control mechanisms are being made impossible to implement. Civil participation in law-making processes is, in fact, an essential part of democracy. Of course, while military work is a technical or specialized aspect, it is essential for the political institution to measure how society looks and how it approaches in this process, if society's benefit is essential to the process of law-making. I'm afraid we don't even have the courage to measure, or even learn, how society is approaching the subject of forced military action today, how society looks at the subject of civilian suspicious deaths in the military, what concerns of society, what fears are in the military, and we can argue that while we're defending it, we can argue that we don't have the courage to wear down institutions. On the contrary, the fact that these institutions serve the community is exactly the reason for their existence. There are very serious institutions in the world about this, institutions for monitoring practice. For example, in the United States of America, there are mechanisms for police monitoring. There are civilian monitoring mechanisms in Israel for monitoring checkpoints. In Liberia, Argentina, Malaysia, in many countries around the world, there is serious work on it, legal rights, legal rights to NGOs, and even a serious status known to civilian institutions who oversee military bureaucracy, who monitor police, domestic security units. Of course, if you have a policy mind that perceives it as a security weakness, if you have that kind of management culture, then you wouldn't have the courage to discuss it or talk about it yet. On the contrary, if Turkey manages to open civil control of the military bureaucracy's internal security practices or the actual practices of internal security units, if it can open direct law enforcement channels about it, allow the work of NGOs about it, if it allows it, I think they see these two concepts as the opposite of each other, both for human safety and for freedom, for more serious gains about peace, but unfortunately in Turkey, those who are still talking about the balance of security and freedom concepts still see them as the opposite of each other. However, the concept of security is no longer discussed in the context of state security in the world. This is an ancient mentality that reflects the state mentality of the 1930s and 1940s. The concept of security is now discussed in the context of human safety, social security in the world. Even if you're based on human safety and public safety, you have to believe that society is capable of controlling its own safety, that's the minimum requirement of democracy. In Turkey, there has been a 3.5m-euro project under the interior ministry in recent years, but now, let alone the need for this project, we're going through an environment where even lawmakers -- we're leaving civil society organisations, human rights organisations aside -- that doesn't allow them to see this control function, its role. Both the Geneva contracts and other agreements that Turkey sided with directly connect the security bureaucracy as a result of Article 90 of the Constitution. Today, I hope this House realizes that even though the road to civil law is closed for what the security bureaucracy has done, one day the trial in front of international law will wear down these institutions even more. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0373par0461	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they demand it, I'll make a separate commitment to the motion holders or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the Law Proposal of some Laws and Laws (/414) in accordance with the Laws and Laws Act No. 60 of whom have been held, and 414 of Isparta MP Satiya Sadi Bilgic and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair and Chair of Justice and Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs to change some Laws. With all due respect. Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu (Bursa) and his friends The following temporary clause has been added to the Law of Precious Papers, Article 4 ▪ 210. (Temporary Article 3-31,12,2016) The price of $5 worth of paper from the population wallets will continue to be made under Article 1 of the Law. The signatures of the other motion are: İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the Commission agree with two proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0374par0474	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0373par0475	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0375par0476	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0373par0477	İsmail Faruk Aksu, İstanbul MP for the motion that the Commission and the government did not attend. Here you go, Mr. Aksu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0376par0481	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding Article 4 of the Law Bill 60. I salute you all. Turkey is part of a geography of risks as much as the opportunities it offers it. Thus, Turkey's regional and global activity will be proportional to how much it assesses these opportunities and how much it can eliminate threats, and its ability to increase its well-being by ensuring its citizens' peace and security will depend on that. However, the AKP's governments have failed to read the internal and external developments in good health and have been able to assess opportunities and threats and have taken no steps to establish a peaceful and secure future for the Turkish nation. The domestic and foreign policies implemented have led Turkey to a country that imports terrorism, and instead of dealing with terrorism, cities have become weapons and bomb warehouses. Every day, the news of the martyrs and the momentum of terrorism have developed as a result of these wrong policies. As a matter of fact, since July 20th, the progress and the process of resolution confessions have shown all of us how thin the line between ignorance and betrayal can sometimes be. Dear lawmakers, there have been significant increases in IT crime in recent years. In this environment, how will security be provided for information on chip cards where all personal and economic information will be loaded? How will this arrangement avoid becoming an area where personal data can be exploited? The bill did not include issues that would satisfy such hesitations, nor was any special arrangement made. Again, the bill does not improve financial rights in accordance with the workload of employees working in population and citizenship. For civil servants who work for the population and citizenship services, there must be a special amount of work due to the conditions of their work. On the other hand, the population business has become a professional business. Therefore, the ministry needs to create an appropriate staff system. In addition, the bill does not compensate for the lack of personnel in these units. In this framework, we see that the shortages are necessary for our citizens to receive more effective services and for serving officers to work more efficiently. With our recommendation, I propose that a lack of this bill be met, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0377par0487	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. About the other motion, Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu, Bursa MP. Here you are, Mr. Kayishoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0378par0492	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 4th Amendment. First of all, as a person from practice, as a lawyer, I see that we still have not overcome the difficulties with lawmaking techniques, and I hope to avoid the chaos of terminology. In many articles in the bill, the bill was prescribed to replace the law's letter with the identity card, but the 4th article I was talking about was used with the ibuprofen wallet, which was re-inscribed in the temporary article. Now, it's March 19, 2015, the headline is: "He became a courthouse for £3, he committed murder hours later. " A 20-year-old kills a 7-year-old child in an argument over a change of $3, and he seriously hurts someone. Again, on March 3, 2013, he killed his friend for £5, and in other news, they killed the taxi driver for £5. We see a lot in page 3 news. Unfortunately, Turkey took the lead in income injustice with power's practices, so poor people commit murder because of these small numbers that mean nothing to someone, and the government does nothing to reverse it, they don't make promises. There are 17 million poor citizens in our country, and it hurts our hearts to say that poor people can't change their identity or that they'll have to reduce their daily obligations in exchange for the price of amendments. Now, about the changing of identities. Wouldn't it be better if your authority to regulate a citizen's daily life and your power to shape everything into schematics, to fill our time here with them, to bring the rights to social rights, health care, education, to our great Assembly? Wouldn't it be better if you brought in the law proposals we presented as the Republican People's Party Group, instead of the shape of the identity that the citizen doesn't care about, to solve his real problems, his burning problems? Today, there are countries that don't give their citizens ID cards, but give them freedoms. Bring it, and let us change the Law of Choice, and let not the will of the citizen be outside this great assembly. Bring it in, change the Law of Political Parties, remove the leader's sultan, free the will of lawmakers. Bring it in, we'll free the press, and the public will have the right to hear the truth. Let us lift up the judicial courts of peace, lift up the Civil Security Act, lift up the mandatory lessons of religion, consider the houses of worship, and lift up the house of obligatory religion, which is in our identities. Bring him back, give him back the corporate personality of the villages, remove the general health insurance. So, when we organize all of this, then the identity of a citizen becomes meaningful. The bond of citizenship between the state and the individual is established in an environment where people sleep peacefully at night. Can I go home safely today? What if you change the shape of your identity in a country of anxiety? Is your life going to get better after these identities? People get jobs when they change ID cards? If there are arrangements where people learn transparently where their taxes are going, the citizen feels valuable. Otherwise, the price of a valuable paper on a schematic card doesn't make the citizen feel valuable. What happens when most of the taxpayer's taxes, the value of paper prices, go as a salary to the perverted religious fetishists, and you make those identities out of gold, what if you're equipped with state-of-the-art technology? That's why we want to point out that we're against these charges. It may not mean anything to you, but in a family of 3 children, the identity card of 5 people will be 40 lira. These 8 liras will come out of 17 million poor citizens, totalling 136 million, will cover the court's six-month expenses. If you save a little there, I think our citizen won't have to pay for it, I salute you all. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0379par0503	Thank you, Mr. Kayishoglu. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Mr. Akçay, I believe you have a request. Here, I'll turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0380par0510	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Garo Paylan, the deputy who was just speaking on the stand, states that my grandfather's assets were once again the property of my grandfather who tried to stand up after the genocide. In this talk, the expression and expression of genocide exceeds. Of course, what does the speaker mean, it needs explanation, but as you know, in some countries around the world, is it or isn't it not the so-called genocide allegations that some enemies of Turkey have expressed? This statement belongs to the speaker. If that's the expression, it's never possible to accept it. We reject that statement with absolute and utter disregard. We're interested in their views, as well as the other members of the group, and especially the speaker. Genocide is out of the question. There is no court order. These are a series of false allegations and slanders by some of the enemies of Turkey. But the truth is, there is one thing that is based on documents, and it is that, at that time, the massacres of the Hnçak and the Tasnak gang are at stake. And this Armenian Hnçak is documented and registered in state archives, where 518,301 people were killed and killed by the Tasnak gangs, and I'll put that as a note. In particular, if there were events in 1915 -- I'd like to put it in parentheses -- it's in the archives of the state, and it's in its records, and it's in the records of the killings that occurred during the relocation of the settlements, and it's still in the documents of the state. That's all I have to say for now. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0381par0515	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0380par0516	As president, of course, you need to make a correction...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0381par0517	Mr. Baluken, do you have a request, sir?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0382par0518	No, let the other group of vice presidents speak...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0381par0519	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0383par0521	Mr. President, thank you. I reject Mr. Paylan's statement of genocide. During World War II, the concept of genocide came to light as a legalized concept, as a result of Nazi practices against Jews. It's either used as a genosite, or a holokost, or a solution in terms of the solution. Basically, the Armenian genocide claims have been expressed as a political speculation after the thanks of this legal concept, as well as a past, I'm sure. After the legal acceptance of jenocytin from the Nazis, there have been other areas of political speculation. The environments that want to gain a new position and political power by drawing some kind of power out of here have applied to this concept. Those who talk about Armenian genocide have sought a legal cover rather than the interests and works of historians, by the power of politics and by some parliaments, who have not known what has been happening in history, but by trying to make decisions from parliaments that are in place based on the situation of powers. Has there been a recent history in Turkey where Mr. Paylan felt like a painted bird? It's possible, it's possible. The property tax is correct, and it's highly criticised in property tax novels, historical books. Again, the house of Ataturk was burned down in Thessaloniki. The issue of people being thrown into the streets in İstanbul was discussed, and it was manipulated by a number of secret states. Let me complete the missing part: in the 1930s there was also a tax work for the Jews in Thrace. Yes, these are painful examples of our recent history, and they have been criticised many times since then. However, when we look at history, my history is clean. There is no social community, no political community, that can say. In fact, one of the immediate examples of the descendants of Mr. Paylan is the Hodja massacre in Karabağ. There, unfortunately, was a dramatic massacre. Here's the thing: for Turkey, let's, yeah, talk about what happened in the past, let's discuss it. Only Mr. Paylan doesn't say that, other various circles are doing these analysis of recent history and putting a future in front of Turkey because of the great dream of the establishment of democratic Turkey, with the honor of a historian. We, of course, expect Mr. Paylan to also -- as a representative, do an extremely honorable task here -- to participate in the construction of democratic Turkey, to express criticism about the past, and to say three words about what was done for that positive, reasonable, partnership, liberal and democratic Turkey. Because such positive assessments will also serve as a rhetorical mission in Turkey's march towards the future, which will investigate people's partnership, unity -- no matter what its origin, whatever its faith. Mr. Paylan, I haven't actually heard such evaluations, I listen to criticism, but I don't listen to anything about positive words. In fact, even his presence here should be considered a positive for democratic Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So, when we're doing these evaluations, I think it's better to be merciful, to have a conscience, to take into account the historical history of many countries around the world, maybe to do a comparative analysis -- all of this may not be done here, but it's in the human mind -- and I think it's better to talk about it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0384par0531	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0385par0533	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it is our duty and duty to create a society that, as a nation, we can all look to the future safely. There are many painful events in our history, and the traumas, the sadness, the pain, can continue today, of course. What matters is that the only condition to be a strong nation is to overcome these sufferings, to overcome the traumas, and to ensure that everyone, regardless of any ethnicity, is that I live in Turkey. In these historical issues, historians should be the key to uncovering the truth, especially by working in archives. But it's up to us politicians to create new beauty over the pain that's happened, and to open our arms to everyone we know who's been through these sufferings, and to make everyone feel that we're going to live much happier and freer in a beautiful Turkey where there's no such pain. In this regard, I think it's important that, looking ahead of Turkey, there will be no more pain in the future, no more pain in the future, and the building of a solid, hugging society from those pains will be more important, and our feelings on this matter will be expressed by the feeling of hugging each other as a strong nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0386par0538	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0387par0540	Mr. Garo Paylan will speak.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0386par0541	Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0388par0543	Mr. President, the Armenian people are one of the ancient people of this land; they all know it; the Kaiserians, the Sivasians, the Tekirdağians, the Malatians, the Antalyans, the Izmirians, they all know it. A hundred years ago, one of the five were Armenians in this land, and we lived together as ancient peoples, but today we are under a thousand to one. It's been mentioned in the rule of sword residue, and we're in no condition. A hundred years ago, the Armenian people were eradicated and destroyed in this land by a state decree. In these cases, my family, my grandfather and his family -- my grandfather is an orphan, orphans by mother and father -- so I live in this land, orphaned by sword scraps. My bloodline is broken. So in Malatya, we are one of three, and today we are not in Malatya.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0389par0544	Our grandfathers are orphans too.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0390par0545	Our grandfathers were slaughtered, too. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0391par0546	Congressmans, let's hear it, sir, let's hear it for Mr. Paylan, please...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0392par0547	Mr. President, he's expressing his thoughts, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0393par0548	My grandfather did not see his father, nor did one of the seven brothers survive.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0391par0549	Congressmans, Mr. Paylan is expressing his opinion, let's hear it, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0394par0550	Our grandfathers were dragged down the street by the Armenians!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0395par0551	Now, it's important to understand guilt, it's important to face a crime. We've had a terrible disaster.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0396par0552	Where do 25 percent of Azerbaijan live?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0395par0553	If the people of this land had been able to face that great crime a hundred years ago, if they hadn't gone over that crime, if they could have named it...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0397par0554	The President of the United States couldn't say what was said here!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0395par0555	Look how well you say it. It's after World War II. If only we could all name our suffering as the people of this land, they wouldn't call it that. All over the world, Armenians are not yet able to pass the law because they can't face crime, because they can't face the great disaster that happened to them, because the crime is denied, ignored, crushed, and the crime goes on as long as it's denied. Mr. Bostanci mentioned that the pogrom, the property tax to the Jews, the events of September 6th, Hrant Dink; all of these crimes are actually the continuation of the great disaster we have not faced. For example, a hundred years ago, two thirds of Diyarbakir Surici were Armenian and Suryani. They were expelled from there a century ago. Today, that mentality continues because crime continues as long as crime is not faced. Today, Diyarbakır Sur is in the same mindset. I wish this council could talk about this and name this crime...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0398par0557	What's that got to do with anything? Intimacy, intimacy!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0397par0558	What are we listening to here? We're gonna listen to a story for an hour!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0399par0559	Mr. Paylan, please complete your statement, sir, please complete it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0397par0560	You're running for President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, give me the right to your presidency!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0400par0561	If this crime could be named, then we could all call it the name of that crime and talk about it...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0399par0562	Mr. Paylan, please...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0397par0563	We're in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and no one can say "I am a thief." That's no way to behave!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0400par0564	And if the Armenian people mourn in this frame, we can all get better together.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0401par0565	The translation room was given to the Armenians, named after the faithful, and why was it suspended? Wasn't he loyal, Mr. Paylan?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0402par0566	Thank you, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0403par0567	Mr. President, he'll take it back, sir, he'll take it back!
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0404par0568	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0402par0569	Mr. Akçay, you have a request. Here you go, sir. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0404par0572	Thank you, Mr. President. My grandfather's estate, my grandfather's grandfather, who tried to stand up after the genocide, says, "We learn with joy that his grandfather -- and his speech -- has lost his life. He may have suffered losses from relatives or great-grandfathers in those things. But the confrontation is an insult, an inquisition.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0405par0574	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0404par0575	Those who want to face the Turkish nation, the Republic of Turkey on the international platform first have to face the massacres of their own grandfather, Hincçak, the Tasnaks, so that such a legal situation will occur.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0406par0577	When they were young, they stripped their skins in Upper Karabağ.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0404par0578	I mean, we can talk about this for hours, and there's nothing wrong with talking about it. Now, it's been destroyed, it's been broken. It says...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0407par0580	Please wrap it up, Mr. Akçay, please finish what you're saying.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0404par0581	I'm completing it. According to U.N. documents, 817,873 foreign immigrants are in question, according to November 1922, and 118,198 Armenians are registered in Turkey, and 131,175 Armenian populations are registered in various parts of Turkey. They were also discussed by experts on the subject.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0407par0583	Mr. Akçay, let's wrap this up, sir, the matter has been discussed enough, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0404par0584	There's no need to oversell these numbers, it was like this and... Now, there's a great benefit in being careful and avoiding provocations.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit05spe0407par0586	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0407par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 60, where we left off. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Congressmans, there are four motions on the 5th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the declaration be replaced by colonels seeking to retire until February 29, 2016, in the first sentence of Article 39, which is added to Article 926 of Turkish Armed Forces Staff Law, with Article 5 of the current 60. Coshkun Çakır Ramadan Can Haydar Ali Yıldız Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Your love Look Hüseyin Özbakir Gökçen Özdoğan Enç Hakan Çağoğlu Abdurrahman Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 5 of Article 5 of the Law Against some Laws and Laws Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Saryya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair and Chair of Justice and Development Group Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; We propose and recommend the amendment of some Laws. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamaylıgil Tulip Dursun Çiçek Selin Sayek Böke Mahmut Tanal MADDE 5. Turkish Armed Forces 926, dated 27/71967, added the following temporary clause to the employee code. "Secondly, from the colonels seeking to retire until February 29, 2016, as of August 30, 2016, as of the year 2016, A) To those who will complete the 30th verb service year, the pension is 5.5 times the total monthly amount, B) To those who will complete the 29th verb service year, pension is 11 times the total monthly amount, C) To those who will complete the 28th verb service year, 16 times the total monthly amount of pension, They are also paid as pensions by the Social Security Agency without tax, and they are transferred from unemployment as of August 30, 2016, according to Article 50 (a). Of these, retirement is not implemented if they demand to be promoted to a rank of rank as of August 30, 2016. In computing their term of service, the 14th and 109th Articles require that officers be evaluated along with graduates of military school, who have completed higher studies and higher studies than the Academy of Harps. The personnel in this situation can continue their membership at the Army Residency Agency each month, according to the Law on Military Aids, dated 3/1/1961, on which the maximum operational service year of their precedents is completed by 31 August 30th, after which they have been retired. Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5 of Law Bill 60 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan The signatures of the other motion are: Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Erkan Haberal Mehmet Parsak Deniz Depboylu Desire Erdem Does the Commission agree with two proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0408par0049	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0407par0050	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0409par0051	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0407par0052	Is there any talk of a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with? Here you are, Mr. Haberal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0410par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I was going to make a speech about the Military Law, but after today's talks, I wanted to share with all of you here a story that I myself have witnessed and I would like to make it into the transcripts myself. When these Armenian claims came into question, around 2005, Turkish scientists came together and said: politics can't solve this. Only scientists can solve this. So let's sit down with the Armenian scientists and figure this out. How do we solve it? Let's open the archives. Let Turkey open its own archives, let the government of Armenia open its own archives. Let's sit down, let's compromise. For this, permission has been taken from the state of the Republic of Turkey and from the State Department of Foreign Affairs. Armenia, Armenian religious leaders in Turkey, met with Mesrob Sir, asked him to be a mediator, and then the state of Armenia refused to accept it. Although the state of the Republic of Turkey has agreed to open all archives on these allegations, the rulers of the state of Armenia have not opened their archives, they have refused. In particular, Mr. President, I wanted to tell you about it. Dear MPs, I'd like to start by saying that my words have no political concerns. We personally and as a party have no real expectations except for the Turkish Republic and the Turkish nation. But it is incumbent upon us to hand over the flag and the land for generations after us as one. As the National Movement Party, I would like to announce to the world that we will not spare any sacrifices to pay this debt, that we will keep our eyes open, that we will shield our chests. The only nation in the history of the world who has written military in glory is the Turkish nation. When the nobility of their creation combined with the honor of Islam, this nation wrote the unforgettable epics of military history. We will not allow our country to be swept away in an atmosphere of hostility, conflict and strife along with our hero soldier. We're gonna stick together to national values and the idea of living together, and we're gonna shout out to the friend and the enemy that we're not gonna split up. The National Movement Party will not leave Turkey unattended. He will support the government to the end, as long as he is sincere in the fight against terrorism and hypocrisy. Dear MPs, whatever we're saying, whatever we're offering, whatever we're trying to do, it's for the benefit and benefit of the Turkish nation. Human rights and respect for their freedoms are in our hands, but our rights and freedoms are under constant armed attack. I'd like to ask the lawmakers, who we trust with their conscience, who we trust with national sensitivity: how much longer do we tolerate terrorist organizations and terrorists? What are we waiting for to say it's enough? What could be more, more disastrous in this country? If the representatives of the terrorist organization dare to act under the roof of this Veteran Assembly built at the expense of the blood of hundreds of thousands of citizens, then Syrian terrorists will come, live bombs in Sultanahmet Square, bleeding our country into blood and chaos. Dear lawmakers, promoting the pensions of our colonels through a change in the Military Law is not a healthy procedure and method. First of all, the issue would have to be discussed at the Armed Forces' view, at the relevant residency commission, at the National Defence Commission. Terror in our country and... I'm out of time. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0411par0066	Thank you, Mr. Haberal. Abdullah Zeydan, Hakkari MP will talk about the other motion. Here you are, Mr. Zeydan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0412par0071	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion we made on Article 5 of Law Bill 60, which has been discussed. I salute you all. After all, how can we protect the rights of colonels and soldiers, not only to increase their salaries, but to protect the rights of all our people, the soldiers, the police, the civilians, and all of our people? How can we stop the blood of a brother and sister? We need to talk. Bombs are going off in all Turkey today, curfews in Kurdish provinces continue, human rights are being taken away, very severe human rights violations are being committed. It also appeared in the press the other day, with armored cars and electric poles being turned over, and it shows that it's being done to make it difficult for the people there. Again, yesterday at the age of 70, Panzers crushed and killed our uncle, Haci Hasan Khan, who was a pilgrim. In the face of these unlawfulities, the government has blocked all good-willed calls. There have been similar government approaches in the past. President Erdogan of the former Homeland said: since the day he came to power, how many thousands have the government ruled in Southeast Anatolia, across our country? Shall I tell you? This government doesn't kill by judgment, it kills without judgment. That's what they call them. People in the southeast were slaughtered without trial. Yeah, no one's guilty in any of this? Yes, there may be, there may be. You find them, you judge them, and then you judge them. Unfortunately, the same illegal practices continue in Turkey and Kurdish provinces today. Dear MPs, we have a very beautiful proverb: A plague is better than a thousand advices. What happened in Turkey today has all happened in the past, and it turns out it didn't give Turkey anything. It has cost the lives of 50,000 of our people, and it has turned out that it is not a solution, that the process of resolution and peace has begun in the past. I'd like to share with you a conversation by the current President in Ağrı. It's not much to the press, but right now, it's also a post on the wall of the AK PARTI County Mayor of Şemdinli, which I went to before 2011. That's exactly what the soldier's mother, the mother of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, goes to her son's grave, reads a Fatiha, a Yasin, and the congregation prays for both funerals, it's the blood of a brother. Dear friends, in the first five years, the democratic steps taken by the AKP from 2002 to 2007 were greatly met by Kurds and all the peoples in Turkey, and were able to produce two deputies in Hakkari. In 2008, the governors of the congregation launched anti-public attacks on Nevruz, three of our people were massacred in Turkey's southeastern province, and our elderly mothers were brutally cobbled in the van, and political arrests began in 2009 under the name of the security policy, and the MPs in that time supported the practices of the AKP (AKP) and oiled the bread of the congregation. They made the AKP like that in Hakkari, and they made a mockery of the people's will and were forced to appoint an external MP to Hakkari. Then a lot of congressmen who knew what had been done was wrong couldn't speak up. If they'd have been able to brave the Prime Minister in those days, I'm sure they'd be the people the President cared about the most today. The same thing is happening today. I'm sure there are friends inside the AKP who see that what happened today is very wrong. Today, those people have the courage to express their views in order for this process to end immediately. Everyone knows that 11 million people today signed for the freedom of Kurdish leader Mr. Abdullah Ocalan, and that it is my will. The government must meet with Mr. Ocalan for dialogue and negotiations as soon as possible and open the path to democratic politics. Dear friends, last but not least, Mr. Naci Bostanci just mentioned it. You can't live your life outside of Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...lost, he said he was not a citizen of the Republic of Turkey who fought against ISIS's terrorist organization. But I've been informed today by the Hakkari Human Rights Association that the families who were Haqkari and who lost their lives in Kerkuk, in Şengal, against the wild terror organization, have been prevented from entering the land of their own country. And in that respect, I wish to be shown the necessary sensitivity. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0413par0083	Thank you, Mr. Zeydan. I submit two motions of the same nature to your votes...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0414par0085	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0413par0086	I'll call the number of decisions, the number of decisions I need. Those who accept the motions... those who refuse...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0414par0088	So we didn't have a vote when we asked, Mayor. Now, it's not a fair decision.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0413par0089	There are enough decisions, the motions are not accepted.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0414par0090	Mr. President, then let's not ask at all, I mean, we didn't have the number of decisions when we wanted them to, but they kept on waiting, so there's no point in us asking for the number of decisions, so you didn't define them for a while.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0413par0091	Mr. Baluken, our clerk friend on the right said there's enough to decide.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0414par0092	But he has to be neutral there.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0413par0093	I waited for Mr. Azba to count, and when his count was over, he returned to me, saying that there was enough to decide. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 5 of Article 5 of the Law Against some Laws and Laws Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Saryya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair and Chair of Justice and Development Group Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; We propose and recommend the amendment of some Laws. With all due respect. Dursun Flower (Istanbul) and his friends MADDE 5. Turkish Armed Forces 926, dated 27/71967, added the following temporary clause to the employee code. "Secondly, from the colonels seeking to retire until February 29, 2016, as of August 30, 2016, as of the year 2016, A) To those who will complete the 30th verb service year, the pension is 5.5 times the total monthly amount, B) To those who will complete the 29th verb service year, pension is 11 times the total monthly amount, C) To those who will complete the 28th verb service year, 16 times the total monthly amount of pension, They are also paid as pensions by the Social Security Agency without tax, and they are transferred from unemployment as of August 30, 2016, according to Article 50 (a). Of these, retirement is not implemented if they demand to be promoted to a rank of rank as of August 30, 2016. In computing their term of service, the 14th and 109th Articles require that officers be evaluated along with graduates of military school, who have completed higher studies and higher studies than the Academy of Harps. The personnel in this situation can continue their membership at the Army Residency Agency each month, according to the Law on Military Aids, dated 3/1/1961, on which the maximum operational service year of their precedents is completed by 31 August 30th, after which they have been retired. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0415par0107	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0413par0108	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0416par0109	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0413par0110	Is there a speaker, Mr. Gök, about the motion that the Commission and the government disagree?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0417par0111	Mr. Flower, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0413par0112	Mr. Flower, here you are, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Flower, you've been speaking for five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0418par0115	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. The need for security is an important need for human life as much as the need for feeding. In fact, the importance of this need is evident only in an environment of insecurity. To understand the importance of this need, you have to ask the Syrians, the Iraqis, our citizens who are caught between the security forces and terrorists in the area in which the fight against terrorism is taking place, the people who have been violated in Suruç, Ankara, İstanbul. In this scope, it is not possible to repay loyalty and humanity's debt to those who pay their country's debt to meet the need for security, to the security forces who work at the expense of their lives, only by attending martyrdom. Making legal arrangements for morale and motivation to give them an honorable life is one of the main duties of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, I'm talking about an arrangement with the colonels. An arrangement of about 1,075, or 1/6, of 6,500 colonels. Of course, they had proposed that this arrangement be taken from the ages - the High Soldier Shura - and they had debates. Instead, the selection of a humanitarian method based on initiative, based on resignation by petition, and the reward for the motivation of pension-seeking personnel in this matter -- with a bonus -- with a pension bonus -- should be used in the science of human resources management. Thus, although it contains positive elements in this regard, this arrangement is a temporary arrangement, and the result is a suspicious arrangement. It is also an inadequate amendment, given the fact that other senior colonels who have earned the rank of senior colonel and deserve retirement and the colonels who have a service period of under 28 years have taken advantage of this legal arrangement, that their incentives, bonuses are reduced by 50 per cent despite the General Staff's offer, as well as the collapses of senior staff sergeants in the same regard. Despite everything, it's more humane than in the past tense when hundreds of soldiers were forced to retire by the conspiracy cases of an organization called the parallel structure. In this case, the additional indicators concerning the experts, the duty compensations of petty officers, as a responsibility to the security forces fighting with their lives during this legislative year, are the legal issues that must be held, especially in the case of protecting the rights of personnel who have been cut off from the Turkish Armed Forces. Of course, the fact that this law is temporary -- it's already in its title -- is the greatest weakness that it doesn't involve a systemic and continuous arrangement, but again, it's the best way for the staff to leave the initiative to themselves. It is the request of the staff to double the number on the basis of the incentive clause, which is based on the incentives in this regard, as offered by the General Staff. In this matter, it's your high council's honor. I salute everyone with love.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0419par0121	Thank you, Mr. Flower. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration be replaced by colonels who are seeking to retire until February 29, 2016 in the first sentence of Article 39. Coshkun Cakir (Tokat) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0420par0128	We commend you with the proper opinion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0419par0129	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0421par0130	Mr. President, we agree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0419par0131	Any word on the commission's recommendation, the government's motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0422par0132	Motive...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0419par0133	I'm reading the reason: It was proposed that the decision to retire from unemployment to pension provisions should be made by the Supreme Military Sura, which has completed 28, 29 and 30 years of service as of August 30, 2016. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit the clause to your votes, which has been altered by motion: those who do not accept, those who do not accept, the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 6th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that some Law and Law Orders Act No. 60 and amendments be made in accordance with the Law and Law Law Act (1/414) and Isparta MP Satiya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair and Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and that the Law Proposal for Changes in some Laws shall be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Jacob Akkaya Ancient Durmaz Selin Sayek Böke Tulip Carabinieri Mahmoud Tanal Ahmet Akin The following joke has been added to Article 29 of Mining Law 3213, dated 6 ▪ 4/6/1985. ▪ Under Article 2 of this Law, Article IV. In Articles 41, 53 and 63 of the Business Law of 4857, 10/9/2014, and 6552 can be supported by the changes in the costs of the Law, which are made by the Law, issued by the Law, and by Article 9/5/2003, and by which private legal persons are licensed. These supports are covered by funds put into the Ministry budget. The procedure and the basis for meeting costs increases and the implementation of these procedures and bases are determined by the Council of Ministers on a joint proposal from the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and the Ministry of Finance. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the 6th amendment of the proposed bill be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Baki Simsek Mehmet Günal Kamil Aydın İsmail Faruk Aksu Argin Erdem The following joke has been added to the interim Article 29 of Mining Law No. 3213, dated 6 ▪ 4/6/1985. ▪ Under Article 2 of this Law, Article IV. In Articles 41, 53 and 63 of the Business Law of 4857, the amendments made by Law 10/9/2003 and 6552 can be supported by the costs increased by the additional 9th article of the Law. Supports are given by consideration of the amount of production. Support per ton cannot exceed 20 Turkish liras for 2016. This amount is increased by augmentation rate every year. Support can be given for at least three years. The amount of support can be differentiated between businesses, depending on labor density and the cost of production per ton. These supports are covered by funds put into the Ministry budget. Other procedures and foundations for the cost increases are determined by the Council of Ministers at the Ministry's proposal. Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0423par0162	Now, Mr. President, I'm sorry. There's an offer on mining. Who are the bureaucrats here about mining? No minister, no bureaucrat. So there's the Minister of Family and Social Policy and there's soldiers.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0424par0164	There's a government.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0425par0165	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0423par0166	I don't get it. I mean, in my mind, we'd ask for an explanation, like us bureaucrats. Anybody home?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0425par0167	Mr. Tanal, the government is here. If you demand an explanation, he will be directed to the government, and he will make the necessary statement, sir. Now, I've stated that I'm going to read the most anti-matter motion and process it. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 6 of Law Bill 60 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Berdan Özturk Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0426par0177	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0425par0178	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0427par0179	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0425par0180	About the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with, Mahmoud celadet Gaydali, Bitlis MP... Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0428par0184	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group over Article 6 of the 60th Amendment. This article is about adding jokes to Article 29 of the Mining Law. This joke is: The law, which produces liniyet and stone coal, can be supported by private legal persons to pay for the costs of subterranean mining enterprises, which they operate as licenses. This law is more like a cover law than a bag law. In the Employment Act, privileges are also favoured when it is necessary to keep the Labour Safety Act in the forefront and to arrange for people to work in a safe and healthy environment. In particular, after the Soma mining disaster, the Occupational Safety Act would have to be one of the most important laws to control. Unfortunately, the ruling party quickly issued the Homeland Security Act instead of the Occupational Security Act, creating curfews and inhuman oppression today in Şırnak, Sur, Cizre and Cizre. Today's agenda should not be about the bag or the cover law, but about the emergency problems of the country returning to the fire site. What the public expects from us parliamentarians is that people have the right to safety and human life, which is vital. Unfortunately, we've also messed up our priorities. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0429par0188	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the 6th amendment of the proposed bill be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Article 6 of Article 6 of Article 4/6/1985, and Article 3213 of Mining Law 3213, the following joke was added to Article 29/3. ▪ Under Article 2 of this Law, Article IV. In Articles 41, 53 and 63 of the Business Law of 4857, 10/9/2014, and 6552 can be supported by the changes in the costs of the Law, which are made by the Law, issued by the Law, and by Article 9/5/2003, and by which private legal persons are licensed. Supports are given by consideration of the amount of production. Support per ton cannot exceed 20 Turkish liras for 2016. This amount is increased by augmentation rate every year. Support can be given for at least three years. The amount of support can be differentiated between businesses, depending on labor density and the cost of production per ton. These supports are covered by funds put into the Ministry budget. Other procedures and foundations for the cost increases are determined by the Council of Ministers at the Ministry's proposal. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0430par0197	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0429par0198	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0431par0199	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0429par0200	Mr. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa... Here you go, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0432par0204	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're discussing an important item. Yeah, there's the government, there's the government, but there's no ministers, and there's no relevant bureaucrats. The units related to the Turkish Coal Company mining office should be here. Please read the statements from the Turkish Coal Company Director's reviews on the Soma disaster of the research commission, which make the hair stand up. Later, in his statement to the press, he told the former Minister of Energy that he was too smart to relieve me. E, we've seen the attitude and behavior of the Minister and the Prime Minister, which suggests that he's too smart to remove himself. Dear friends, the mining disaster that took place on 13 May 2014 in Turkey has created a public sensibility for mining, and after this tragedy, we, together with the joint participation of the opposition in the Grand National Assembly, the Plan and the Budget Commission and the General Assembly. In short, the work period was reduced from 45 hours to 36 hours. Later, on April 4th, there was a change in that again, and that was 36 hours and 37.5 hours, and the daily working period was 7.5 hours. The overtime fee had been increased, and the annual sabbaticals had been increased, and important arrangements had been made that the minimum wage for workers could not be less than twice as high. These arrangements also increased the costs of private mining companies, especially when we considered that the minimum wage would increase by around 30 per cent in 2016. The regulation of the draft law on the basis of this 6th article will also show that the cost increases of private mining companies will be met. However, since the Department of Energy has not been here, we also understand that there has been a very non-serious arrangement. It is not clear how much support these private companies will be given, nor is it clearly stated, and the Council of Ministers is given open-ended, almost infinite authority in this regard. Which makes us all anxious, whether we want to or not. In fact, it's an arrangement that puts the Council of Ministers in a difficult position. Our fellow members of the National Movement Party Plan and Budget Commission have worked on an estimate of their own efforts, providing $17 for 1 ton of production in public businesses -- companies that work in the form of redevance -- and the public, private sector businesses are expected to have 95.5 lira support for one ton of production. The commission also provides the basis for the information given by relevant bureaucrats, which is estimated. In the event of this clause's legalisation, the central management budget will be issued to private sector mining companies on an unrestricted scale, which is not true. In our proposal, we say that the amount of production in this support should be taken into account, and we think it would be better to determine this amount of support by taking into account the maximum number of three years -- and also, considering employment -- and the cost of production per ton. Dear friends, parallel to this... now, we're out of time. However, 2,831 workers were fired from the mine that had been hit in Soma, on December 1, 2014, with cell phone messages, and even though they were promised by the government... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and even though there was a legal arrangement on this matter in April, they still haven't received their severance pay. A week before June 7th, a week before the elections, they took a portion of their compensation by twenty and then left it to drag. We are again drawing the attention of the government, and we demand that these compensations be paid immediately. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0433par0214	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of the Law to some Laws and Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Saliya Sadi Bilgiç and Vice President of the Justice and Development Party Group, Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and to the amendment of some Laws. With all due respect. Ahmet Akın (Fishesir) and his friends The following joke has been added to Article 29 of Mining Law 3213, dated 6 ▪ 4/6/1985. ▪ Under Article 2 of this Law, Article IV. In Articles 41, 53 and 63 of the Business Law of 4857, 10/9/2014, and 6552 can be supported by the changes in the costs of the Law, which are made by the Law, issued by the Law, and by Article 9/5/2003, and by which private legal persons are licensed. These supports are covered by funds put into the Ministry budget. The procedure and the basis for meeting costs increases and the duration of implementing these procedures and bases is determined by the Council of Ministers on a joint proposal from the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and the Ministry of Finance. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0434par0224	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0433par0225	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0435par0226	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0433par0227	Mr. Ahmet Akın, Balıkesir MP. Here you go, Mr. Akin. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0436par0231	Mr. President, I have made a promise to tell you our views on the motion we made regarding the 6th Amendment in the bag bill of 60 rows under discussion. I hereby salute the High Council. Article 6552, which was released during the last legislature, is also an additional amount of rights provided to our workers in mining businesses by the state to provide support for the cost of some additional rights. As it is known, this law was passed after the Soma disaster on May 13, 2014, when we lost 301 miners. Therefore, I give you once again the honor of the lives we lost in mining business accidents, particularly the Soma and Ermenek catastrophes. This arrangement naturally brought additional costs to mining businesses, providing additional opportunities for the minimum wage in mining businesses, which will not be less than twice as much, but will be paid by at least 100 per cent more work fees. Now it's said that some of these costs should be paid by the treasure. Yes, it will, but how much of it will be covered? The matter does not regulate it, but gives the authority to regulate it entirely to the government. Regarding this, our objections have been expressed in opposition to the Commission's report, particularly in violation of the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, business accidents have been routineized in our country by the AKP government, connecting and naturalizing the body. Studies show that at least 1,730 people died in our country's work killings in 2015. The more important it is that our mining enterprises can continue to operate, contribute to the economy, the more important it is the safety and safety of our workers who work there. Therefore, if a public support is to be provided, it must first be supported by those investing in labour health and safety measures. We know that the main causes of the catastrophes are unintended work health and occupational safety measures, investments and inadequate audits in this area. Turkey, unfortunately, is the country where the deaths of the most workers occur in Europe. Compared to Europe, we also see that we are the country with the weakest control network. According to ILO data, in 2013 the number of auditors per 10,000 workers, for example Romania, was 1.9, and we only had 0.3. Unfortunately, our miners are paying with their lives the cost of neglect in mining, which is the largest industry in mortal business accidents. In mining businesses, he leaves only profit-oriented activities, labour health and safety to the secondary. Therefore, what needs to be done first is to take care of the health and safety of workers in modern standards. We know the AKP government doesn't care about that. I'd like to give you a number from a few studies. We know that China and the United States are the two countries that produce the most coal in the world. When we compare the number of workers who lost their lives per million tons of coal produced by these two countries, it's obvious that the situation is dire. According to this 2012 study, 5.46 workers in our country lost their lives during the production of 1 million tons of coal, 0.34 in China, 0.02 in the United States. My dear friends, I think it's possible that these two countries are different from us, that death in the mines isn't connected to the outside. We also know that the prime minister's advisors who kicked the painful miners who fell on the ground were not rewarded and were not crowned. Dear MPs, as it is known, a significant portion of the workers we lost in the Soma disaster is from Balıkesir. Warpeli, Ivrindili, Dursunbeyli, Bigadic, Kepsutlu, Balian residents were among them. When we went to these counties, we saw that the graves of the miners we lost in Soma would be built. I hope that promises will be kept, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0437par0242	Thank you, Mr. Akin. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who do not... the motion is not accepted. I submit the sixth item to your votes: those who do not accept... those who do not... are accepted. There are three motions on the 7th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and (e) that the first joke (e) of Article 10 (e) of Article 570 of Electronic Signing Law No. 570 (E) under Article 7 (E) under which Article 7 of the Law shall be adopted. Mehmet Günal Kamil Aydın Erhan Usta Kadir Koçdemir Erkan Haberal Mustafa Mit νe) Informing a person of the use of the certificate to keep the restrictions predicted in the law, the conditions for the solutions of discrepancies and the safety of electronic signatures are the equivalent of hand-signed signatures, prior to the surrender of the certificate, Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 7th Amendment clause of the Law Against some Laws and Laws Acts (/414) and Isparta MP Sariya Sadi Bilgiç and Vice President of Justice and Development Party Group Chair Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 lawmakers to Make Changes in Some Laws. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Musa Pine Senal Sarıhan Tulip Carbage Mahmoud Tanal Selin Sayek Böke The first joke (b), (e) and (f) of Article 10 of Article 5070, dated 7-15/1/2014, has been changed as follows. /b) By identifying people with qualified certificates by official records or by remote identification card of the Republic of Turkey, The specifics of the use of the certificate to keep the restrictions predicted in the Laws are to inform the person who demands that conflicts are the equivalent of hand-signed signatures and conditions related to solutions and secure electronic signatures, prior to the delivery of the certificate. f) To inform the certificate's certificate not to allow anyone else to use the signature creation data in response to the signature verification data found in the certificate, Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the 7th article of the current 60 rows of the Bill of Law be removed from the draft text of the bill. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0438par0272	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0437par0273	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0439par0274	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0437par0275	About the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with, Mizgin Irgat, Bitlis MP... Here you go, Mr. Irgat. [[Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Applause]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0440par0279	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when my predecessor, dear Garo Paylan, took the stand, we watched the events, the talks, the really manly system, the tone of voice, and the insufferability. First of all, we've seen once again that the House is still at this point, that it has not even shown patience to listen to historical reality. On this basis, the next wish for political history in Turkey, not only in Turkey, but in Ottomans, Iran, Syria, Russia, and all the archives in the Middle East and in the world, is to be looked at by independent commissions and to submit them to parliament, and to share them in public, clearly. Yes, at the beginning of the problems in this country, the Armenian issue, the Kurdish issue of denial, and the sexist, economic unemployment that we are experiencing today, and all of our political problems that are being discussed as a unity, all of them real, all of them very important issues that are waiting to be resolved. So, here today, on behalf of my party, I've been promised a change in Electronic Signing Act 5070. What the AKP's been doing for 13 years is making it look like it's actually doing something, re-resolving the old system, in fact, in order to restore its authoritarian, repressive system, re-cooking it to the public. So even though this system may seem to be a change in society's life -- a very modern, innovative, intelligent identity card -- in fact, we see it as a repeat of the old system, the 90-year-old republic's history, the system. One of the most important examples is that we can explain the part about tagging. The tag system here has been in Turkey for years, and in the Turkish system, we all know that the tag system, which we all know is obvious, has been passed by this system, through this law. At the same time, the freedom of religion and conscience, even though ethnic emphasises have been explained by a verdict that we are actually condemned to in the European Convention on Human Rights, we see that these emphasises have not yet been moved back to the point where this liberal field should really be. This bill, which bears serious violations at the point of basic rights and freedoms, must not really be adopted. The fact that people's handprints, fingerprints, and personal data are collected through biometric data in a system is a very important indication that the 90-year system is having self-esteem issues with its own citizen. So this practice, which has serious dangers, is really a very serious question in the minds of all of us, in private, and in the minds of the lawyers, at the point of where and how to use these data. So it's a very clear sign that the 90-year crisis of self-esteem is being carried out by the AKP government, which is actually standing in front of us right now. We, the HDP, believe that if a problem is really to be discussed in this country, if the identity issue is to be discussed in this country, it should be discussed here, not in a bag of laws discussed with military laws, but as a fundamental law clause, and one historical background at a time. Because, really, there is a 90-year-old identity problem in Turkey, a problem of religion, conscience, and security. So we consider this to be the biggest violation of the law, of the bag of laws, of karma, of the actual infrastructure, of the debate that is being debated here without the necessary debates in society. Here, the storage of this data... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do each citizen actually know why these data are stored and where to use it? The answer to that question is, in fact, one by one. So we think that fundamentally, such an important law should be discussed on a more fundamental agenda and with its historical background. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0290	Thank you, Mr. Mizgin Irgat. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 7th Amendment clause of the Law Against some Laws and Laws Acts (/414) and Isparta MP Sariya Sadi Bilgiç and Vice President of Justice and Development Party Group Chair Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 lawmakers to Make Changes in Some Laws. With all due respect. Senal Sarıhan (Ankara) and his friends The first joke (b), (e) and (f) of Article 10 of Article 5070, dated 7-15/1/2014, has been changed as follows. /b) By identifying people with qualified certificates by official records or by remote identification card of the Republic of Turkey, The specifics of the use of the certificate to keep the restrictions predicted in the Laws are to inform the person who demands that conflicts are the equivalent of hand-signed signatures and conditions related to solutions and secure electronic signatures, prior to the delivery of the certificate. f) To inform the certificate's certificate not to allow anyone else to use the signature creation data in response to the signature verification data found in the certificate, Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0442par0302	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0303	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0443par0304	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0305	Anyone want to talk about a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0444par0306	Motive...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0307	I'm reading the reason: A change is recommended to make the material text understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and (e) that the first joke (e) of Article 10 (e) of Article 570 of Electronic Signing Law No. 570 (E) under Article 7 (E) under which Article 7 of the Law shall be adopted. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0445par0316	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0317	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0446par0318	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0319	Anyone else want to talk about a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0447par0320	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0321	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to clarify the sentence by correcting the disparity of expression. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There are three motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose the change of the first joke (h) in Article 3 of Population Services Law No. 5490, which is held under Article 8 (P.S.) Law No. 60 and Amendment in some Laws. Mehmet Günal İsmail Ok Kamil Aydın Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir Erkan Haberal ▪ Valuable papers: Turkish Republic identity card, international family wallet and blue card Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that some Law and Law Orders Act No. 60 and Amendments be made under the Law (/414) and Isparta MP Satija Bilç and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair and Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; on some Laws Make Changes, and on the following way, we propose and propose the amendment of Article 8 · Global Voices of the Law (Isparta MP Sadi Bilç and Justice and Development Party). With all due respect. The Ancient Durmaz Yakup Akkaya Selina Doğan Selin Sayek Böke Bihlun Tamaylıgil Tulip MADDE 8-25/4/2006 and the 1st (h) and (r)bents of Article 3 (h) of Population Services Act 5490 (h) were replaced as follows, and the same joke was added to the following one. ▪ Valuable papers: ID card, international family wallet and blue card I.D. card: The identity card of the Republic of Turkey, which shows that the person is a Turkish citizen and is registered in the family register Biometric data: Fingerprints, vascular prints, and data from the person obtained from the ellipse to ensure identification and identification through electronic systems Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Law Bill 60 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0448par0357	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0358	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0449par0359	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0360	Anyone else want to talk about a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0450par0361	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0362	I'm reading the reason: The arrangement envisioned a change in Population Services Law 5490. This arrangement should be discussed in the Protection of Personal Data Law Bill, which is expected to be presented as a fundamental law to Parliament in the coming process, while this bag was in the draft. The introduction of the relevant arrangement as a fundamental law and a participatory understanding of the issue will also correspond to the spirit of the burden of law enforcement that we take on. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0451par0366	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0367	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, so I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All in favor...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0451par0369	Yes, it's been accepted, Mayor. It's all gone, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0370	Yes, the motion has been accepted.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0452par0372	Mr. President, you didn't ask for those who didn't agree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0373	Sir, I'm sorry, there's been a mistake, I didn't ask for the rejects.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0453par0374	Mr. President, members of the EC PARTY Group have joined.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0375	Sir, I made a mistake not asking for the inadmissibles, so I'm going to vote again, and I'm going to vote again, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0453par0376	But, Mr. President, when you asked if it was accepted, the MPs from HDP ranks and AKP ranks were mostly involved.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0377	Right. Well, look...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0454par0378	You didn't ask for those who didn't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0455par0379	Let's do it again, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0380	Now, I must ask those who do not agree again, but we all know the outcome. So, if you'll excuse me, sir, I'll repeat the vote.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0456par0381	But it's a little subjugation of the MP's will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0457par0382	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0441par0383	It's not, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0458par0384	The vote was incomplete, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0459par0385	I mean, the Presidential Court needs to respect the will that comes out here.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0460par0386	The vote was incomplete, Mr. President, and you didn't ask for those who didn't agree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0458par0387	Dear President, there's been a lack of president. Let's go back to 13, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0461par0388	Dear MPs, the relevant clause of the Civil Code is clear on this issue. I repeat the vote. I submit the motion to your votes, and once again, those who say yes, those who don't agree, I have stated that I will look for a sufficient number of decisions. The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that some Law and Law Orders Act No. 60 and Amendments be made under the Law (/414) and Isparta MP Satija Bilç and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair and Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; on some Laws Make Changes, and on the following way, we propose and propose the amendment of Article 8 · Global Voices of the Law (Isparta MP Sadi Bilç and Justice and Development Party). With all due respect. Selina Doğan (Istanbul) and her friends MADDE 8-25/4/2006 and the 1st (h) and (r)bents of Article 3 (h) of Population Services Act 5490 (h) were replaced as follows, and the same joke was added to the following one. ▪ Valuable papers: ID card, international family wallet and blue card I.D. card: The identity card of the Republic of Turkey, which shows that the person is a Turkish citizen and is registered in the family register Biometric data: Fingerprints, vascular prints, and data from the person obtained from the ellipse to ensure identification and identification through electronic systems Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0462par0401	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0461par0402	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0463par0403	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0461par0404	Mr. Selina Doğan has asked for a motion that the Commission and the government did not agree with. Here you go, Mr. Dogan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0464par0408	Mr. President, Congressmans, good evening, everyone. I think it's a twist of history that my first speech on this stand has coincided with the argument that's been going on here for the last two hours. So I don't want to leave this bench without a word or two about it. First of all, I'd like to propose a style regardless of the definition of events in 1915. As Mr. Millitarian Movement Party's deputy leader has shown unfortunately, I believe that if we can remove this issue from the level of public insult to another and discuss it in a more human way, we can look to the future with much more confidence, as our representative of the group states. Because, Congressmans, as you think this is about, it's not just about the Armenians, it's not just about the Turks, it's a matter of Turkey. So, not in other parliaments of the world, but it's a matter that needs to be resolved under the roof of the House. Otherwise, every April 24th, we're just going to have to drop the whole thing in a hurry. I believe that none of us wanted it, and finally, I believe, was at an Erzurum rally in 2015, and the Prime Minister made it very clear that it was a human crime. I'm done talking about this right now. And I'd like to continue my words by condemning another grave explanation that marks this day. You know, Sedat Peker, a registered mob leader, had held a rally to support the ruling party before the November 1st election and had promised voters that there would be lots of blood in this country. As a matter of fact, it did. Since the November 1st election, even before, there has been a lot of blood in this country, but Sedat Peker probably hasn't been satisfied with this blood, and today he's expressed a fantasy by targeting 1,100 academics who want peace, who invite peace in this country, and he's expressed that they want to take a shower with their blood that will flow out again, and by this time -- the spokesman of our party, as far as I know -- even though the People's Democratic Party condemns this statement -- there's still no explanation from the ruling party. Now I ask, who is Sedat Peker? In what capacity can he use these words? Is there any difference between those words and ISIS mentality? Will there not be a reprimand for the power that claims to have fought ISIS? Now, I'd like to go over what I've been promised. The 8th article of the bill, which we have discussed for the past two days, and the 9th article, also included an arrangement for biometric data. The new identity cards will contain biometric data. What is the biometric data? If we look at electronic systems, the fingerprint taken to ensure that identification and identification process is specific to the person obtained from the vascular print and the ellipse, so it's personal data that we express closely in the law. Well, is there a law in our legislation about protecting personal data? There isn't. Only in Article 20 of the Constitution, which guarantees that personal data on the protection of privacy will be protected, but it is still not legal. Therefore, as my deputy, I have no conscience that such intimate information about the bodies of our citizens should be submitted to the savings of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and its officials before the legal legislation on their bodies is completed. It also concerns all lawmakers present because our immunity will end one day. I'm sure none of us would want to be touched against our bodies. Thank you, good evening.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0465par0414	Thank you, Mr. Doğan.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0466par0415	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0467par0416	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0465par0417	Just a moment, sir. Mr. Akçay, Mr. Bostancı, I'll listen to you, I'd like to proceed with the motion first. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Akçay, Mr. Bostanci, if you'll excuse me, there's another motion on the item, and I'll do the procedure, and then I'll listen to both of you, sir. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose the change of the first joke (h) in Article 3 of Population Services Law No. 5490, which is held under Article 8 (P.S.) Law No. 60 and Amendment in some Laws. Erkan Haberal (Ankara) and his friends ▪ Valuable papers: Turkish Republic identity card, international family wallet and blue card Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0468par0426	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0465par0427	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0469par0428	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0465par0429	Mr. Ok, who has asked for a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with, please come in, sir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your speech time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0470par0432	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all with conversation. I am honored to be a member of the great Turkish nation that has been blessed by the Prophet. I'm highlighting this in particular. There's nothing to be ashamed of in the past, in the past of our profession, and it's the greatest honor for me to be a member of such a glorious service. I'd like to highlight this in particular. Honourable lawmakers, our government makes many laws; of course there are laws within which we believe are in the best interests of our nation, which we believe are done in good faith. But the same laws have been changed over and over again, so to speak, cooked and cooked, and brought before us in front of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In particular, a government is being massacred in public. Being a member of Turkey's KAMU-SEN is a major crime by the AKP government. If you are a member of Turkey's KAMU-SEN, regardless of what your commitment to this Republic of Turkey is, even if you feel in your heart what it is to serve the law, this nation, the AKP government, especially the members of Turkey's KAMU-SEN and the national education community. A friend of ours named Kemal Girgin, a principal at a school in Balıkesir. One of whom has been awarded two times as director of the year, from the hand of Minister of National Education Nabi Avcı. But with these laws, unfortunately, the so-called successful school principal, who received two years in a row as his manager, was suspended during the same government period and during the same Minister period. Sadly, despite the consequences of the courts, our friends are not being reinstated. I would like to remind you of a scripture that Allah has commanded in the Qur'an: Surah 58: Surely Allah commands you to give to the owners of the trust, and to judge between people with justice when you judge. How excellent is the admonition that Allah gives you. Indeed Allah is all-hearing, all-seeing. Believers, be steadfast in God's cause and bear witness in justice. Your hatred for a community, yes, I draw your attention - do not let it force you not to act justly. The scripture continues. Here are the verses of God, when the laws, the Constitution, the human rights, the whole thing is clear, unfortunately, no friend of ours, who is a member of the KAMU-SEN of Turkey, should be served by the government, which you have created, and it is a major crime... and I am ashamed to point out just now that a member of the education army, a school administrator, a friend of ours, is serving in Ayvalıklık, and unfortunately, even though the National Minister of Education Nabi Avcı. I don't want to take up any more of your time at this time of night. Knowledge of the signs is not enough; it is necessary to have faith in them. Hopefully, I hope so. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0471par0441	Thank you, Mr. Ok. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. Come in, Mr. Akçay, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0472par0447	Thank you, Mr. President. The speaker who was just on the stand on behalf of the Republican People's Party has made an unfortunate speech, referring to the previous discussions and referring to the misfortune of my speech as Deputy Director of the National Movement Party Group. What's unfortunate here is that a nation is accused of genocide and insulted. This is not a matter for such an international team to enjoy. Here, the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation are subjected to slander and slander. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we will continue to react accordingly to these blasphemies and slanders, as always, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and in other platforms, and the Turkish nation will express its work, its views, all over the world. It is one thing for a nation to speak in a manner that is sinful or enjoined by good intentions. I don't want these arguments to go on any longer, but I don't want anyone to doubt that we'll continue to insist if he insists. No one can accuse the Turkish nation of genocide, nor can anyone accuse the Republic of Turkey of genocide. In addition, what the AKP ministers, the Prime Minister, and the current President will say will connect them. Of course, Mr. AKP, we don't know what the deputy leader of the group will say. I'm just finishing up here for now. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0473par0453	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0474par0456	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Dogan continued the debate at last session. In terms of understanding what's going on in history, historianship has improved in Turkey, and there are many different historical approaches besides official historianship, which need to be taken advantage of. And we know what happened in history, who was innocent, who wasn't, who was really suffering, who was on the side of pain, we know the arguments, we know the polemics.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0475par0458	Come in loud and clear.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0476par0459	Come in loud and clear. Don't talk about it.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0474par0460	It seems to me that we can all build the future innocent, honest, honest, moral. There may have been a lot of arguments about what happened in the past, but our job is to make arguments in the past when it comes to it, but it's more of a moral and conscientious way of building the future. Parliament will do its part, of course. No doubt I reject the allegations of genocide, and I said that in the last session, so there's no need to repeat it over and over again. Not only did I refuse, but in Turkey, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, on many occasions, when these issues came to the agenda, they made it very clear and clear. And I don't have to point it out to you because that's how it is. But we all owe it to ourselves to build the future. Here, as we build the future, an attitude that will bring that sense of partnership to life, a position that will build democratic Turkey. On the other hand, it's not the right approach to talk about a rally in Rize and the person who held that rally, as if there was a political assessment that could be bonded to the AK PARTI. THE EC PARTY is a government in Turkey that has fought many small and large mafia organizations in the 14 years since its rule of power and established law in Turkey. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The prosecutor's office also has a follow-up on the rally that this person had at Rize. THE sole basis of the AK PARTY is the people themselves; otherwise it is not some mafia organization, it never happened, and it never happens again. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0477par0465	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0478par0468	Mr. President, this late at night, as citizens of Turkey, if we claim to be a strong country and a strong nation, there are duties for all of us. These missions are giving all of us much more powerful tasks in light of the debates that are taking place in the coming process today. We know that everyone who lives in Turkey, origin, sect, language, religion, race, each one of them is an equal citizen of Turkey, and that the east of Turkey, the west of Turkey, the north of Turkey, and everyone who lives south of it is entitled to over all Turkey. All Armenians living in Turkey, my brother Garo, my brother Selina, my other brother in AKP, all Armenians must feel that they are equal citizens of the Republic of Turkey, and we must show them this. We all feel deeply sorry if no one ever feels like they're going to be left out, pushed or ever again in Turkey after the trauma of past sufferings on us. I'm screaming from here to my brother Garo, my brother Selina, all our Armenian brothers. We extend our hand to anyone who claims to have come from suffering in Turkey. After these discussions, everyone must now come out of common pain to reveal the will to be a united, powerful nation, and look to the future with determination and security. I hold my brother Garo, I hold my brother Selina, I hold all our Armenian brothers. They are equal citizens of the Republic of Turkey, and with these arguments, we should never move forward... with a model that will open the way for Turkey, more prosperous, freer, recommending a longing for law, democracy, human rights. My respects.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0479par0473	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0480par0476	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the chair here is a bench where lawmakers or political party groups freely express their views and carry out their responsibilities to their constituents. Here, it's every congressman's right to express the most irregular thoughts unless it involves the element of violence. In accordance with this principle that we recognize as a general truth, it is impossible to accept the concept of coercion, force-building pressure on these views, in any way, on the views expressed by lawmakers of a historical process that has occurred here. The reality that we all accept now is that there have been countless great sufferings in this land, and this community has no chance to build its democratic future without having to face a certain process of suffering. We believe that all the people who live in this country are on the same ship, including Turk, Kurdish, Lazyah, Circeşek, Arab, Armenian, Suryani, Alevi, and Sunni, and the same democratic future, and should have the same common destiny in the same democratic future. To do so, we feel that free and bravely on this platform of Congress, there must be a process of confronting and searching for truth about all the suffering that has happened in this land in the past. Unfortunately, I regret to inform you that the level of approach to these problems that have arisen in the General Assembly is extremely hurtful, both to our peoples who have suffered a great deal of pain in this matter, as well as to the large social populations who are looking forward to this democratic future. We, the People's Democratic Party, are saying that we have suffered from this level of debate here. We believe that by establishing a commission to investigate and face facts within parliament, a process of confronting all suffering in this country, and through a democratic republic, a paradigm where people can live together through the perspective of a democratic nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit06spe0481par0480	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0481par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 60, where we left off. The commission is in place. The government is in place...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0482par0005	I'd like to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0481par0006	Mr. Akçay, I think we've had enough of this discussion just now. All political parties expressed their views on the issue. I don't think there's any need to go back to this argument. Now a new session has begun. In the new session, according to the Civil Code, we can't go back and discuss it again.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0482par0007	My intention is not to argue, Mr. President. I'd like to collect my opinion with a few last words, and, of course, I'd like to express that we're very uncomfortable.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0481par0008	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0482par0010	Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, first of all, I find it useful and recommend that our interested friends take a good look at the National Party's programme, its rhetoric and its remarks on this matter. We, the National Movement Party, are a political party that centers the nation and makes nation-based politics, and we consider all citizens of the Republic of Turkey to be an honorable member of our nation, regardless of their ethnicity. On the contrary, we also look at our views, our political understanding, as well as some ethnic sects or other situations, as a uniting understanding. But, of course, there is no way that we can accept that as the National Movement Party, we need to be careful not to be hurtful. If they insist on being called genocide, it means they insist on hurting them. So, hopefully, this kind of polemics won't happen anymore. I say again, let's all work together as Parliament, as the children of a nation who grieve, share in joy, cry together, and laugh together, for the peace of our beloved nation, for the welfare of our citizens, for the happiness of our citizens, for individual fundamental rights and freedoms. I mean, if we're looking for an understanding, of course, in the effort to understand each other, I'd like to express the same understanding. For now, I'd like to finish with those words. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0483par0013	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. There are three motions on Article 9: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Erhan Master Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir Mustafa Mit The first joke of Article 9-5490 of the Law has been added to the bell, and the last sentence of the same joke has been changed in the following way. "h) Biometric data. (a), (e), (g), (e) and (h) are recorded only in the electronic environment." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the nine-point article of the Law Proposal (Isparta MP Sediya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair of Justice and Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; to change some Laws in some Laws. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamaylıgil Tulip Yakup Akkaya Selin Sayek Böke Mahmut Tanal The last sentence of the same joke has been added to the first joke of Article 7 of Article 9 (5490) and the following one has been changed in the following way. "h) Biometric data. (a), (g), (g) and (h) are recorded only in the electronic environment. Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of Law Bill 60 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0484par0045	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0483par0046	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0485par0047	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0483par0048	About the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0486par0049	Let's read the reason.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0483par0050	I'm reading the reason: The arrangement envisioned a change in Population Services Law 5490. This arrangement should be discussed in the "Personal Protection of Personal Data Law Bill," which is expected to be presented to Parliament as the main law in the coming process, while this bag is in the bill. The introduction of the relevant arrangement as the basic law and a participating understanding of the issue will be more consistent with the spirit of the responsibility of the law that we take on. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the nine-point article of the Law Proposal (Isparta MP Sediya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair of Justice and Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; to change some Laws in some Laws. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz (Tokat) and his friends The last sentence of the same joke has been added to the first joke of Article 7 of Article 9 (5490) and the following one has been changed in the following way. "h) Biometric data. (a), (g), (g) and (h) are recorded only in the electronic environment. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0487par0063	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0483par0064	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0488par0065	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0483par0066	Mr. Mahmut Tanal has asked for a statement on a motion that the Commission and the government did not agree with. Here you go, Mr. Tanal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0489par0070	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute and salute you all. Of course, when we look at the 9th article of this bill, when we look at the original article of Law 5490 -- I had been in the Commission in Article 7 (7) -- we asked Mr. Population General Directorate at the time what the records that should be found -- here, the personal information that should be found in the family code, the existing bill must be in the 12th article (8). All negotiations at the Plan and Budget Commission are very comfortable, under duress. The answer to the question we're asking you there, and the provisions in this bill here, they're completely opposite. Look, we're calling it the biometric data on personal data. On one occasion, the law on the protection of personal data related to the amendment of our Constitution, Article 20 in 2010, has not been passed, and Turkey has still not approved the contract on the protection of data imposed on Turkey under the directives of the European Union. What do we understand when you say "personal data" here? When we look at the directives of the European Union, they describe personal data in groups, valued lawmakers: there is no clear evidence that sensitive data, anonymous data, false data, and which data recording system here is uploaded to these biometric identities. I'm asking you, are you going to upload the sensitive data here, upload the anonymous data, upload the data called false data, or upload the data related to the diagnosis of every citizen who has been admitted to the hospital under Article 100 of Social Security Law 5510? As a result, there's not a single explanation for this. What is the citizen's assurance? It has to be protected from a constitutional standpoint, and the 20th article is regulated by the law. It says so, but you haven't passed the law until now. We're looking at the international contract, you didn't sign it. When we came to the commission, it was said, "Sir, this Turkish Penal Code 135, 136, 138... I forgot to take it here. It's comfortable, personal data...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0490par0076	Here, shall I get it?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0489par0077	Mr. Haydar can show us from there. Look, I'll give you that book: we can't take advantage of that law on protecting personal data. So, I ask you, if you uploaded false data to this biometric identity, what are you going to do about this uploader? You uploaded the wrong data, so there's nothing in the 135, 136, 138th article to protect our citizen's personal data. Also, let me make this very clear: are you going to upload sensitive data, upload anonymous data? I'm asking you, that's one. Second of all, I said: "Stop applying pink and blue between this current female birth certificate and the male birth certificate." You said, "Yes, we do." During the 24th term, I proposed the law, and it was rejected by the votes of our fellow lawmakers at the time. In the interim 6th article of the 16th article, you're saying that if you're removing the male birth certificate, the female birth certificate, why are you passing this ibare here? I mean, there's still a difference between men and women in your mind. It's about the House of Religion... and I'm out of time. If we all have passports, why doesn't our passport say the house of religion? The religious house isn't on the passport, it's not on the Turkish bar ID, it's not on the driver's license, it's not on the license, it's not on the gun ID. Where's it written? It's on the congressman's ID, and it's on the birth certificate. And that's because you trust it. If you're adapting to the European Union, why are you writing here the religious house where you can't write on your passport, you can't write on your bar ID, you can't write on your driver's license, you can't write on your licensed gun ID?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0491par0084	Why are you bothering me? Why is the CHP disturbed religion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0489par0085	For him, my plea from you ends here with tolerance, compromise, embrace of everyone. So, here, if that's the case, put it on the passport, brother. So, please, Mr. General Manager -- I don't know, I met you first -- those answers you said in the Plan and Budget Commission, take them and read them again. Now you'll see that it doesn't match the issues of the bill here. Don't use the segregation of men and women in the birth certificate. There's one other thing: you say identity information, you say information. There are differences between Law 5490 and Law 210. In Law 210, you say the wallet, 5490, you say we changed it, we made it a identity card. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0492par0088	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0489par0090	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0492par0091	The decision has been demanded. I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who don't... there's enough to decide, the motion is not accepted. To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 9 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. Erkan Haberal (Ankara) and his friends The first joke of Article 9-5490 of the Law has been added to the bell, and the last sentence of the same joke has been changed in the following way. Biometric data. (a), (e), (g), (g) and (h) are recorded only in the electronic environment. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0493par0101	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0492par0102	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0494par0103	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0492par0104	Anyone else want to talk about a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0495par0105	Motive...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0492par0106	I'm reading the reason: (e) It is also intended to be kept only electronically. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There are three motions on Article 10 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to add the declarations of the Republic of Turkey to the 10th Amendment in Article 10 of the Law Bill. Mehmet Günal Erhan Master Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir Mustafa Mit Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that some Law and Law Orders shall be changed in accordance with the Law on Military Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Saziya Sadi Bilgiç and Vice President of Justice and Development Party Party Party Chair Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and to change the Law Proposal on Some Laws. With all due respect. The Ancient Durmaz Yakup Akkaya Musa Pine Bihlun Tamayligil Selin Sayek Böke Tulip The 1st article of Article 10 of Article 5490 of Article 10 of the Law, which was included in the 11th article of the Law, has been changed to the identity card, and to the identity card, which is included in the first joke of Article 18 of the Article 18. Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the current 60 rows of the Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Mizgin Irgat Dilek Ocalan Alican Front Garo Paylan Ahmet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0496par0138	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0492par0139	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0497par0140	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0498par0141	Ahmet Yıldırım will speak.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0492par0142	About the motion that the Commission and the government did not agree with, Mr Ahmet Yıldırım is a member of the parliament. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0499par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, yes, were also discussed in the Commission, and we have expressed in the debate on how to reform identity cards into biometrics and chips. In fact, there's something the political government has been saying for years. Mr. Tanal just pulled out different identities here. In those identities, the promise that all identities, except for passports, will be merged into a single identity has been expressed for years, but at the moment only the identity of the population is changed. It is stated that the identity will be chipped and that it will have this kind of pressure. There was a combination of population, driver's license, profession, tax identity cards on one card, but it is stated that only the identity of the population will be chipped. I'd also like to say that, rather than what an identity card is printed on, it's not the chip, the pressure, the paper printing, it's not what the identity is printed on, it's the development of the individual's sense of belonging and ownership to this country, it's the promotion of democratic standards, it's the spread of freedoms. With permanent social peace, we need to develop an equal sense of belonging and ownership of this country, the citizenship and citizenship of this country. If it's not, we have no objection to making the card biometric, chipging. However, the identity card, which has been chipped or biometricized, is not developed by the same amount of people who carry new technological cards, but by the card, a sense of national citizenship, ownership, and a sense of belonging. We need to strengthen the sense of ownership of the citizens of this country in a democratic environment in which people live equally, in a liberal environment. If not today, I would like to say that it is very important, more important that we develop the loyalty of this country, the ownership and ownership of it, rather than the identity of the person in the pocket of the person in Cizre, Cizre, Turkey, Diyarbakır, and many cities. And I would like to propound a similitude of the Qur'an in particular, and a Surah of Hucurah, verse 13, which We have created you, O mankind, male and female, and We have made you races and tribes and tribes. We have created you so that you may know each other by your differences. Indeed Allah is all-knowing, all-aware.'
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0500par0150	Who owns the mealin? Religion, who? Whose point is that?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0499par0151	I'd like to put it basically, that one language, one nation, one race of citizenship is a partnership. As stated in the letter, we have to have one race and one language, and we don't have to, but we have the chance to unite in one and the common country. And this -- again, I would like to say -- is much more important than single -- than a common country denominator, and I salute the entire General Assembly, saying that unity is much more important than a form of identity card. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0501par0154	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that some Law and Law Orders shall be changed in accordance with the Law on Military Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Saziya Sadi Bilgiç and Vice President of Justice and Development Party Party Party Chair Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and to change the Law Proposal on Some Laws. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz (Tokat) and his friends The 1st article of Article 10 of Article 5490 of Article 10 of the Law, which was included in the 11th article of the Law, has been changed to the identity card, and to the identity card, which is included in the first joke of Article 18 of the Article 18. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0502par0163	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0501par0164	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0503par0165	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0501par0166	No one wants to talk about the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. A change is recommended to make the material text understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to add the declarations of the Republic of Turkey to the 10th Amendment in Article 10 of the Law Bill. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0504par0176	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0501par0177	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0505par0178	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0501par0179	Baki Simsek, MP of Mersin, who has asked for a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0506par0183	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I ask God's mercy to the citizens who lost their lives in the explosion in Istanbul, and I say to all of our trustees who have had an accident on the road to Afyon, get well soon. I have made a promise on the 10th article of the Law Bill, number 60. As the National Movement Party, after writing on the identities of the Republic of Turkey, after the moon became a star, we see the other as a deterrent after writing the religion: Islam. We see it as the most natural right for each person to write his religion, and we don't believe that anyone can be ashamed of his faith, his religion, everyone can be proud of his religion, his faith, his identity. None of the people who live in this country feel left out because of their identity, their faith, we see all 78 million citizens as citizens of the Republic of Turkey, and we want to embrace them in this way. But in France, the bomb goes off, a lot of people can put French flags on social media. The bomb goes off in Turkey, the Armenians, the French, unfortunately, they can't put a flag on it, and we're critical of that. Of course, today, Mr. Mersin has also brought up an issue regarding our Congressman Mersin, and I'd like to give you an answer on that matter. Actually, his address is the Mersin Metropolitan Council, and it's been discussed there before, but since Mr. Aytuğ asked, I would like to inform both the Supreme Assembly and Aytuğ Bey, including the information I received from the municipality. There is a problem with the bus in Mersin; it is true, there is a problem with the bus that has been on Mersin's agenda for about a year. Autogar construction began during the Republican People's Party municipality period, where most of it was finished, and the last part was completed and opened during the National Movement Party municipality period. However, the Republican People's Party municipality used 30 trillion loans to build this bus station and only paid 1.5 trillion. All remaining debts are paid by the municipality currently part of the National Movement Party. After the opening of the bus station, the National Party of Movement wanted to sell the city bus station to the suitors, where they were asked to sell the bus station, as well as to the autogar operators. However, here, the AKP, HDP and CHP members of parliament have opposed the sale, opposed the sale. His tender was later tendered, and the bus station was tendered at a price of 5.6 trillion muhammen. One of the contractors paid 20 trillion plus VAT rent. The price of bidding is 5.6 trillion. He deposits his deposits, guarantees, and rents out the city bus station. However, with the provocation of other opposition parties, the autogars... the firm bought a little bit expensive, over the usual price, claimed high rents, and companies in the bus station didn't use the bus station to pay the rent. Today, as of June 7th, the National Party of Movement has brought the incident to court. The court's verdict hearing will be held in February. According to the court's decision, the tender will likely be cancelled and will be re-hired by the autogar nationalist Movement Party municipality. I wanted this cleared up. Of course, we're always talking about the European Union, we're talking about the law of harmony, but I don't believe there's enough democracy in the European Union to dig a ditch, I don't believe there's enough democracy in the European Union to throw Molotovs at cops. From here, I salute the descendants of Mollah Karim of Tarsus, who was slaughtered by Armenian gangs. My respects, my love to your grand delegation. May the Republic of Turkey exist. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0507par0193	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0508par0196	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0507par0197	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0508par0198	Mr. President, the speaker has taunted the opposition by saying their party plays a provocative role in the municipality. There's an open taunt, if you don't mind...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0507par0199	Here, I'll give you two minutes under Article 69.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0508par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I do not wish to have such a conversation at two o'clock in the morning. But it's my 2:00 today, 14 o'clock. Twelve hours later, I received an answer to a speech I had made at 00. Well, it's good again, that's the answer, but there's some flaws in the answer. Yes, the MHP has finally acknowledged that there is a bus problem in Mersin, and has not been able to solve it for two years. The construction of the bus station was completed by the CHP municipality, which was only inaugurated by the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0509par0205	I wish you'd opened it, why didn't you open it?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0508par0206	But after that, for two years, this bus station was not operated, even though the city's law ruled. And since it can't be operated, this place is being sold with people's money. We've protected people's property like lions. And I don't want anyone to have any doubt that we're going to keep protecting people's property. As a result, the city's tender buys a company, but the company doesn't fulfill its commitments, so it doesn't pay its dues. When you don't pay, there's nothing court-martialed about it, friends, the contract is immediately terminated, renewed, or run by the city itself. If today, in a metropolitan area like Mersin, in a place like Mersin, where the taxpayers are in the rain, citizens are gathering from gas stations in the mud, if you are taking down people from Ankara who want to get in and go to Mersin, it can't be called municipalism. Mersin would never have agreed to such a thing, he would never have. That's all there is to it. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0510par0212	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0511par0213	Mr. President, a very brief statement...
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0510par0214	Mr. Akçay, about what, sir?
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0511par0215	Mr. President, speaking on the stand earlier, Mr. Horseman has been accepted by the MPP as explaining a matter concerning Mersin City Hall. The nationalist Movement Party's institutional identity does not exist, and it did not. In the end, municipalities are state-owned institutions, and they work their way through the problems of that city in their own way. The National Party of Movement is not a matter of institutional concern to us, to the group. I told him to go on record. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit07spe0510par0217	Well, it's in the transcripts. Thank you, sir, thank you. I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-13sit08spe0510par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 60, where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with the European Commission for Information and Technology, the Industry, Trade, Energy, Resources, and Foreign Commission Reports, in the 2nd ranking position of the World Trade Organization, in accordance with the Kuran Marrakech Agreement, and the Computation for the Agreement on Easing Trade (1/386). Commission? No. It's been postponed. In accordance with the decision taken, it is Thursday (January 14th 2016) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Thursday (January 14th, 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00. I bid you good night.
