tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2016 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2014 Central Management Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll be doing the seventh round of interviews today. The seventh round includes the Ministry of National Defence, Undersecretary of Defence Industry, Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, Development and Support of Small and Medium Enterprises Administration, the Institute of Turkish Standards, the Turkish Patent Institute, the Institute of Scientific and Technological Research, the Turkish Academy of Sciences, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and the Ministry of Animalism and the Association of Tobacco and Alcohol Management budgets and final accounts. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2014 CIRCLE AND VICTIMAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND DETECTION 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account Commission? Here. Government? Here. Members of parliament, as it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. In the seventh round, I read the names of the members of the group and its individuals: On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Dursun Cicek, Bilecik MP Yaşar Tuğün, Selim Tahsin Tarhan, Denizli MP Kazim Arslan, İstanbul MP Didem Engin, Denizli MP MeIike Basmacı, Antalya MP Mustafa Akayın, Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu, Bursa MP Orhan Sarıbal, Manisa MP Mazlum Nurlu and Tokat MP Kadim Durmaz. Ankara MP Erkan Haberal, Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu, Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın, Balıkesir MP İsmail Ok. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Erdal Atash, Adıyaman MP Behçet Yıldırım, Mud MP Ahmet Yıldırım, Bitlis MP Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Şurmur Ünal, Düzce MP Faruk Özlü, İstanbul MP Hasan Sert, Gaziantep MP Abdullah Nejat Koçer, Giresun MP Cemal Özturk, Konya MP Mustafa Baloğlu, Elazığ MP Metin Bulut, Kastamonu MP Murat Demir, İzmir MP Kerem Ali Metler, Siirt MP Yasin Aktay, Kahramanmarash MP Mehmet İker Çüil, Edirne MP Rafet Sezen, Şanluurfa MP Mehmet Akyurfa MP Mehmet Akyurrek, Konya MP Muhammet Uğur Uğur Kutıtıtıtılı, Mehmet Öğurkutür, Mehmet Öğurkutür, Mehmet Öğurkuk. On behalf of the individuals, Karaman MP Recep Oluç will speak for him on behalf of the government, and on behalf of him, Antalya MP Niyazi Nefi Kara will speak for him. Ladies and gentlemen, before I invite the speaker to the stand, I'd like to share my opinion and opinion with you and with the public this week's March 8th week. Congressmans, our dear people, dear women, because of March 8th World Working Women's Day, which began in March, women are trying to announce their demands and screams to the world in every area they are in. On this occasion, I'd like to express a few things from this stand with my crusher. For the first time in human history, sovereignty is built on women. The 5,000-year patriarchal male system is building its sovereignty over the female sex, destroying the female sex, trying to drown it in the circle of violence and death. Although the struggle to overcome this problem in different countries of the world has reached a certain point, the situation of women in terms of the Republic of Turkey is grave. In our country where at least five women are killed every day, women are systematically harassed and raped, pushed out of public space, trying to become slaves to social and economic life. The patriarchal culture, which is the source of this violence, is not only dominated by society, but also by the forces that govern and govern society. Its laws, institutions and organizations have not been able to stop itself from becoming a mechanism of violence, as the state has led by its political, philosophical, and practice. However, the way for a state order to build democracy and human basic rights and freedoms is by observing the principle of equality for all parts of society. Therefore, the state must avoid the sexist practices of a man and accept the function of security, prosperity and justice for all parts of the community. It must be remembered that the problem of women's freedom is the basis of all social problems. The societies where she's not liberated are doomed to rot. As a matter of fact, as of today, violence in society, violent images and massacres are the most evident indicators of this decay. That is why it is necessary for everyone to act from where they are, with this consciousness and responsibility. The salvation of the female sex is that they stand in the way of equality, labor, and peace, resisting all forms of persecution as one. I, for one, dedicate this year's 8th of March to all our women, who have been attacked by her soul, her body, especially the Mother Taybet, whose lifeless body has been condemned to rot. I remember them all with an infinite sense of debt to advance the struggle for women's freedom. On this basis, I celebrate the March 8th World Laboring Women's Day of women and all the women of the world, who are in the unity of struggle, self-will, self-organization, and mutual struggle. Congressmans, before inviting our deputies to the stand, the members of the group have entered the system. Let's start with Mr. Vural. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0002par0060	Thank you. Unfortunately, we are again shaken by the news of the martyr. We have three officers killed and 14 wounded in the attack on the district of Mardin province of Turkey's southeastern traffic and nearby housing. Two of our soldiers were killed in Şırnak İdil. The number of martyrs we've given since July 20th has been 379. I ask God's mercy for all our martyrs. And while I'm really saying this here, I'd like to say that I'm really sorry to have to report a martyr every day. But let's not forget, if we here today are using the sovereignty of the Turkish nation as MPs, if we represent the sovereign state of the Republic of Turkey here today, then the loss of our soldiers and police, who have been entrusted to our spiritual person, are actually the ones that allowed us to use this sovereignty here. They -- with our free will -- continue to fight to represent the sovereignty of the independent state of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation. I hope that every member of parliament here will use their will in the face of separatist terror that aims at our unity and integrity to represent the sovereignty of the independent Turkish state and the Turkish nation. We will continue their struggle there on both the legal level and on the political level, as well as in Parliament.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0001par0063	We're turning on the microphone, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0002par0064	They're there, and we're here as a representative of them, and if we're really talking here today and using our sovereignty, I think it's because of them. But they die there, they give blood, they expect voices and wills from us. I hope that all sworn lawmakers will voice alongside those who fight terrorism and use will with them. With such thoughts, I wish God's mercy to our martyrs again, and an immediate healing to the wounded. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0003par0067	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0004par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, these days when we continue budget negotiations, we are once again shaken by reports of martyrs coming from the eastern and southeast of our country. We have three martyrs in the Dargateite yesterday, one martyr in Sur. We have learned with great regret that two more of our soldiers were martyrs in the district of Idil, Şırnak, with the news we have just received today. In order to rid our country of this terror, the Republican People's Party, whether it comes from Kurdistan Workers' Party or ISIS, I say once again, we curse all kinds of terror from whomever it comes from. I ask God's mercy to all our fallen soldiers and policemen, and my condolences to their families and to our nation. I hope and wish that these sad events will not be repeated after this, and that our Turkey will be released from this heavy trauma as soon as possible. Of course, there are important government duties here. For example, despite the 90-day curfew in Sur district of Diyarbakır, the fact that the events were still there remains a separate question mark. Mr. President, you've just stated in your speech that we're going to try to re-remember, remind you of women's rights with events related to World Women's Day this week and in the coming days. We, the Republican People's Party, are members of a party that hopes that all of us, as collaterals for the future of all our women who have been oppressed and oppressed in Turkey and all over the world, will be united in a common will, that women will have a say in all lives equal to men, even more privileged than men. But more and more...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0005par0076	We're opening, Mr. Sky, complete. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0004par0078	We also experience the great agony of witnessing that violence against women is increasing in Turkey and that it is still unstoppable. Therefore, on such an important issue, the 8 March World Women's Day will begin next week and this week to be celebrated or commemorated, especially when we demand that all parties in Turkey's women's violence be displayed in parliament and that the law proposals by the Republican People's Party on violence against the woman be passed by parliament immediately, never to be given a reduced sentence in violence against her. Women are our crown. Society can only meet democracy when the woman is free, as you say in your speech. Our wish is that women in Turkey and all around the world are freely involved in all areas of society. I'm already celebrating World Women's Day, and I'd like to express that our efforts to get all our women active in all areas are evident as the Republican People's Party. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0006par0082	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0007par0085	Mr. President, thank you. I condemn the terrorist attack in Mardin. I wish God's mercy to the martyrs who lost their lives there, and to heal the wounded. Terror continues to show its dirty face, and everyone pays the price. Ms. Taybet, mentioned earlier in your speech, is a dramatic example of the dirty face of terror. Today is March 8th, I'd like to call it World Women's Day. Another example is Hatice Belgin Hanım, who jumped on the bomb to protect her children, a hero, a maternal, responsible, selfless mother, but a dramatic example of the ugly face of terror. You have to remember the young girls from Siirt. After all, all these pictures, all the pain, side by side. The fight against terrorism is the duty of anyone who has to defend democratic ground in this regard. Women's journey through history is full of very negative examples, and so is the West, and so is the East. Modernisation also provides opportunities and opportunities for women to participate in politics and public life. Basically, democracy, voting rights, parliament has a history of 150 years, thanks to parliament. You have to remember how late it is for women to win the vote and that Turkey is taking important steps with the republic on this, because if you have the right to vote, if you're in politics...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0008par0090	We're opening, Mr. Bostanci, please wrap it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0007par0092	...you're also in social and public life. This is far more important than the rhetoric of women. Turkey's democratisation, Turkey's enrichment, the strengthening of urban life in Turkey, all of which are also very important for women to be in life with equal rights to men. In particular, it is necessary to assess the distances taken in recent years and to give the man his due. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0008par0094	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2014 CIRCLE AND VICTIMAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND DETECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account Congressmans, on behalf of the groups in the seventh round, I will now promise the speakers in turn. The first word is for the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Dursun Çekyın. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Flower, your time is eight minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0009par0136	Mr. President, I'd like to start by greeting everyone with love and respect, Mr. Secretary, the esteemed lawmakers, the public officials we've served with for many years. Unfortunately, today we have martyrs, veterans, and I salute them. According to the Turkish Republic's 2016 budget law, the National Ministry of Defence budget is about 35.5 billion. The proportion of this in the national budget is 5.6 per cent. The most important and powerful part of the Turkish Armed Forces is the national army. In particular, Turkish Armed Forces, which serve heavily by poor Turkish citizens, are an integral part of the nation. The main power of the Turkish Armed Forces is Mehmetchikler, who is educated and disciplined, whose love for country is high. Therefore, the military system is a vital issue for the Turkish Armed Forces and the country's defences. 54 per cent of this national defence budget is planned for personnel costs. However, the basic problem with Turkish soldiers and police in an environment where martyrs are each day is that they have not reached the level of life they deserve. The same budget includes about 30 per cent of the purchase of goods and services, and 9 per cent as a Social Security institution bonus. In this 2016 budget, where the National Ministry of Education has received 12 per cent of its budget, we welcome a two-fold share of education by the National Ministry of Defence. Of course, we want the education to increase further, but Turkey is never a France or Germany. Turkey is a country in which it must allocate much more budgets to its defences, security forces, as part of its geography. For peace and quiet in Turkey and in the region, a strong army should be the basis of an effective and fair military system in the creation of a structure expressed as strong Turkey. We announced a project about it, and we shared it with the public yesterday. Turkey, primarily Russia and the United States, must strengthen its unity and integrity in modern, democratic principles because of the conflict of the interests and cultures of powerful countries, the civil war of Iraq and Syria, and because of Crime and Ukraine, the pressures of the West against Russia and Iran because of their nuclear work. The presence of a trained, modern, deterrent Turkish Armed Forces and Turkish police is necessary for Turkey's survival. Under the development of the rights of soldiers and police who are fighting for peace and security in the country, including the Turkish Armed Forces, it is important that the law be passed during this legislative period on the rights of autonomy to the families and relatives of the martyrs, in accordance with a command of Article 61 of the Constitution, which must be protected in terms of social security. Those members of the association, with more than 10,000 members, are specifically required to pay minimum wage for their wives and children and their children, their parents. All children of martyrs must be granted free education and employment without restrictions and, again, all of our veterans' prosthetics, equipment needs must be met without asking for any contribution or participation in the security and peace of the country. This Parliament must make the necessary provision for the staff of the Armed Forces, who are in training using actual ammunition and operations to combat terrorism, to receive at least a minimum amount of compensation during these tasks. The work of senior officers and petty officers has been under way for two years. It is the loyalty of this Assembly to ensure the immediate completion of these studies, a standard of living in accordance with the difficult tasks that they serve for military and police pensioners over the years. In the fight against terrorism, the demands of the sergeants who fight heroically at the expense of martyrs and veterans, including police experts, are to be passed through the Parliament during this legislative period, with the rankings and additional indicators of specialists and privates. The law of extradition to more than a thousand armed forces personnel who are victims of conspiracy cases must be enforced at this time. In this regard, especially in these cases, this Parliament has not claimed enough of these soldiers, the victims; it is the duty of this Assembly to protect their rights as a human being. Resen has retired soldiers, armed forces personnel; they are retired by administrative decisions; a law that gives them the right to actively appeal to the judiciary must pass through this Parliament. According to the Court of the National Ministry of Defence in 2014, Turkish Armed Forces, MİSCE and police were identified with a subburdener covering the need for fuel, and some of the fuels were stored in the warehouses of the Petroleum Office, which is a subburdener. According to this report, 14.5 million kilograms of heating fuel and 1.310,000 kilograms of lead-free gasoline were not delivered to the troops in 2013. Again, in the same report, the correspondence between the Armed Forces, the MIT and the police states that there are differences in the records, that there is no standard. It is considered necessary to examine both issues by experts, to process personnel with errors if they exist. In accordance with the spirit of the military system, it is also part of the duties of this Assembly. According to Article 72 of the Constitution, the civil service is the right and duty of every Turkish citizen. • It is imperative that regulations on how to perform this service in the Armed Forces or in the public sector be brought to the parliament and that the decision taken on this matter should be made at once. The current military system is like patched bundles; various exceptions have been made; more than 2 million Turkish youths are now on probation by taking advantage of these exceptions. There's no way to solve this fundamentally with Bedelli soldiers, foreign currency. With the foreseeable expert military system, which began in 1927 and was criticised for not being fair for 90 years, which met the need for specialisation, including the use of high-tech weapons and equipment used by the Turkish Armed Forces, which solved the demand for paid military, which paves the way for young people in their career and business planning, reducing the need for funding in the national budget. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One minute, plus...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0010par0153	Mr. Flower, if I give you a minute, I'll have to interrupt the other speaker for a minute.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0009par0154	A new military system must be established that meets security needs in accordance with Turkey's strategic position. I salute the High Council with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0010par0157	Thank you, Mr. Flower. The second speaker is Mr. Yasar Charter. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Charter, your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0011par0162	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the Defense Industry budget. I salute the High Council. My dear friends, it is irrefutable that a strong army is necessary for Turkey to be strong. We're going through a period in the defense industry where the highest technology is being used. The Turkish Armed Forces also need to quickly transform into a structure equipped with high-tech weapons and get rid of external dependency. For this, in the past, we have suffered a great deal, especially after the Battle of Cyprus Peace in 1974, and that is what our Defense Industrial Undersecretary was founded for. The Defense Industry Undersecretary is one of the most important guarantees of the freedom and independence of Asia Minor and Thrace. In addition, we have seven large defense industries, established by the donations of our citizens, based on military foundations, in the past, with our mother's earrings and our fathers' rings. At first, we're seeing an undersecretary with a large number of companies, including ASELSAN, TUSAS, ROKETSAN, HAVELSAN, ASPILSAN. These companies, along with subsidiaries and private sectors, are signing important projects. However, in recent years, there have been some problems with our Undersecretary, which should have been a locomotive in the industry. At the beginning of these problems comes frequent tampering with the Undersecretary staff, and it does a great deal of damage to the institutional structure. These changes have, unfortunately, caused setbacks in the projects being carried out. The National Department of Defense, Minister, was founded by the Defence Technologies Training Center, or SATEM, in its short name. I'd like to give you an example of why I stand on the SATEM, my dear friends. Only 6 or 7 of them are qualified in international certification processes, while around 2,000 engineers are working today in TUSAS, which operates national aircraft projects. We've got 2,000 engineers, seven friends in charge. Another important issue is financing, as you know. How many reserves have been accumulated in the Defence Industry Support Fund, created to transfer funds to national projects, and what are the latest projects, and how many resources have been transferred? Important projects are being conducted under the leadership of our undersecretary. In short, I want to talk about these projects and the troubles. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, as you all closely follow, the National Tank Project, Project ALTAY, another important project, the co-production of the general purpose helicopter. Mr. Secretary, 109 helicopters were to be produced for Turkey and used for both military and civilian purposes, but two or three years later, the project was delayed. What's the delay in this project? In these helicopters, Turkey's own software, its own weapons would be used, in short, national. With this delay, I want to know if the development of the Turkish Armed Forces' combat ability has been prevented. What's the delay in the contract, and we want an answer to that. We're waiting for an answer, Mr. Secretary. Where is Project Original Helicopter? Another important project is Project ATAK, which is assault and tactical recon helicopters. This is a serious delay in the examination and acceptance process. What's the holdup? Is there an official unit in the Department of Civil Aviation that we produce and produce helicopters and planes that are certified by us? I'm afraid he hasn't created it so far. Dear lawmakers, we've been talking about missile tenders for years. It was given to China by U.S. or Europe, but unfortunately, it was cancelled overnight. In fact, the project of the missile system had been discussed with China for thirty years. What's the reason for this, Minister? The Air Defense System Project will have to be carried out immediately. The delay is the greatest blow to the country's future, its security. Look, Turkey still can't build an engine in this day and age, my dear friends, so we can't even build a motorcycle engine. Where is the engine project for the drone, Mr. Secretary? Is Project HURRY working as planned? Is the project to buy Korean-based training aircraft shut down? If you make your own plane and keep buying planes from South Korea, who will you sell your own plane to? Tomorrow, Korea leaves and Turkey doesn't trust its own aircraft, buys it from us. Won't it, dear friends? We were going to sell the drone ANAK helicopters, ATAK helicopters and other defense industry products to Libya, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, and unfortunately we couldn't sell them. And even my dear friends, from Eximbank, look, it's so important that even the loan was taken out, and the sale of ANKA to Egypt and Saudi Arabia was sadly returned from the post. So, my dear friends, the Undersecretary of the National Defense Industry is one of the two undersecretarys at a ministry. I couldn't explain it because I didn't have enough time for the budget of such an important undersecretary. I'm just saying to the AKP and the government, don't cast a shadow, no more favors. Because the Defense Industry Undersecretary says he'll do the necessary work, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0012par0178	Thank you, Mr. Charter. The third speaker for the Republican People's Party Group is Mr. Tahsin Tarhan. Mr. Tarhan, your time is eight minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0013par0183	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I made a commitment to the Ministry of Industry and Technology budget. Today, I'm going to talk about industry and industrial numbers, which are our only basis for sustaining the country's economy. So let's think about where the industry is coming from, let's think about a few numbers. When we think of industry, we think of production first. In 2002, 27 per cent of the $29 billion loan was used in the manufacturing industry, while only 13 per cent of the $164 billion loan was used in the manufacturing industry in 2014. The amount of credit has increased by about 5.5 times, but the share in manufacturing has been reduced by 50 percent. The condensation is in the construction and real estate industry. The total share of this sector rose from 5 per cent to about 8 per cent. The manufacturing industry received 42.5 per cent of bank loans in 2013, and fell to 21 per cent in 2014. The factories are closed. Our country's values have been extinguished. He started looking for ways to produce industry. In the developing and changing world, industry began to gather in organised industrial areas and to be encouraged here. We don't even have the number of organized industrial areas yet. At the Plan and Budget Commission meeting, he said there were 285 organised industrial areas. On Friday (February 26, 2016), Prime Minister Davutoglu said in his speech on the budget of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the number of organised industrial areas was 65, when we came to power, now 166. Which numbers are correct, the Minister or what Prime Minister Davutoglu said?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0014par0187	They're both true.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0013par0188	Where's 119 organized industrial areas? We're not clear on the number, so I wonder if we'll be able to agree on the fullness of organized industrial areas. The highest fill rate is 80 per cent, some 20 per cent in some organised industries, some of which are now at large. The industry has never been more difficult in AKP power, and the industrialist has never been more intimidated. Because of AKP's ranta-based policies, manufacturing factories have closed down. AKP finished agriculture, could not plan the industry regionally. Twisted industrialization led to warped urbanization. Industrials have been established on the most beautiful coves, on the shores of the sea, with no transportation problems. As a result, environmental problems arose. Today, countries have solved environmental problems, and your ministry has not even discussed it. But what kind of world we leave our children tomorrow is a problem for all of us. Dear lawmakers, a last-minute motion in Plan Budget talks has been made to provide a key delivery plant, and it has been said that we support entrepreneurs. We'll give you a key delivery factory. There it is, twisted industrialization. Has he assessed the competition? Has the market share been calculated? What about the production systems of these factories? If you were going to build a factory, why did you sell what you had? Since when are the key delivery factories that you're going to pursue with your followers considered as incentives? You sold hundreds of factories such as TEKEL, SECA, the engine of Turkey. Why didn't you support these factories, sell them? Why didn't you subsidize the investment by encouraging it? How many factories are currently at the bankruptcy table, facing investment? Which of the sectors that will make addition value want factories in the areas you've planned? Do you know how many factories in Turkey have signs on them? Come on, jokes like that, even though these people don't laugh at you today, they'll laugh tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, there have been many incentive packages announced so far, and let the Minister explain what the incentives contribute to production. The entrepreneurs don't expect incentives from industrialists. The entrepreneurs complain about the height of inputs, costs. Don't build factories, ease the tax burden on energy use. We've given up on taxes, remove the contribution cut for TRT, the advocacy agency on electricity. Create the infrastructure of industries, build treatment facilities, solve transportation problems, open vocational schools and daycare centres. If you must encourage us, reward our industry that already employs, exports, makes machines, pays taxes on the day, creates added value. Don't build a factory, solve the passport issue of the industrialists who are waiting in lines for visas, selling goods all over the world. If you're ready, if you're sincere, first thing after the budget, let's get the order to give green passports to our industrialists through the House. We need to produce high-tech products. We say, "What well-trained young people can we keep in this country?" What human resources will produce high-tech technology? With this educational system? Who knows anything about the new generation industrial revolution? Go, ask who knows what. This ministry must lead as long as Turkey moves the industry to 4.0. But in our country, that's unknown. We have to be realistic. Even the industrialist now invests in construction instead of investing in his business. One of the biggest values in this country is Vestel AVM, and it's a shame about our values. Mr. Secretary, don't make these values part of the range. Let's all solve the real problems of our industrialists. Let's get the production industry up in Turkey. First, let's solve terror, terror. Let us pave the way for freedom, establish democracy with all its institutions and rules. You've seen the industrialist like a cow for years. You tried to milk him as long as he gave you milk, and now when he doesn't give you milk, you want to cut it off. Without production, the economy will not grow, unemployment will not be solved, poverty will not disappear. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0015par0198	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan. The fourth speaker is Denizli MP Kazim lion. Mr. lion, your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0016par0203	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the budget of 2016 for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration. First of all, I salute you with love and respect. We have two martyrs today, 35 wounded.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0017par0205	Not two, five martyrs.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0016par0206	First, I wish God's mercy on these martyrs, condolences on our nation, and immediate healing for the wounded. The country has been dragged into a state of terror, into chaos. Unfortunately, we are on the verge of a complete stalemate today, as the PKK has failed to perform its duty to fight terrorism in this country that has failed to negotiate with the PKK. Why am I saying this? Because there is no investment in a land without peace or peace, no increase in production, no increase in employment, no increase in exports, friends. As long as you don't trust the industrialist, the investor, as long as you don't solve these problems, there won't be an investor, an investor, an investor, who comes to this country from the inside and the outside. For him, this country must first solve the problem of terrorism in the absolute form of power. By dropping the PKK's weapon, I would like to point out that the talks of this solution will be of great benefit and will be concluded with the leaders of parties whose group is in parliament. My dear friends, KOSGEB was founded in 1990. It supports small and medium-sized businesses from that day forward. Of course, every day KOSGEB gets a little bigger, a little bigger. It also provides encouragement and support in many areas. Today's budget is $1 billion,236 million,898 thousand, but that's not enough, folks. Our country really needs investment, production, employment. If we don't set up budgets to encourage them, to support them, I'd like to point out that KOSGEB will definitely be incomplete at the point of reaching its goal. My dear friends, valued lawmakers; now, on the one hand, support is being given, investments are being asked to be made, but on the other hand, the burdens on production are being increased every day, obstacles are not being removed. Now, if you continue to burden yourself with the industry that manufactures or invests, if you increase the tax, if you increase the price of its energy, if you don't really lower the price of its gas, if you don't actually give it any support, you'll see in the future that your support is useless, Mr. Minister. Dear lawmakers, the budget is a law that demonstrates the most important political responsibility of a state. Governments must also be in a position to account for every penny after receiving budgetary authority. The budget is not only the financial basis of the regime, but the basis of accountability and honest administrations, which respect the constitution and its laws, ignores and ignores constitutional institutions, honors the oaths of each of our friends from the President, the Prime Minister, the minister, to the MP. I'm saying this specifically because we're having an unnecessary argument in our Parliament that sometimes we argue for hours about what the President did wrong, and we get into each other, and we get to the point of fighting, and you know what happens in the end? We're ruining the reputation of the House. No one wins in the end, I'll tell you that, no one's getting any profit out of this, you guys. These discussions will continue in this House as long as you're trying to force the opposition, to silence it, and as long as there are mistakes going on upstairs. I want to make it very clear to him that everyone should do very well in their area of responsibility. Dear lawmakers, today we discuss this budget in the midst of a severe state crisis, at a time when terrorism is hurting. Many crews who dynamited our country's basic values, peace and brotherhood, state traditions and morality today entered a race to remove debris from the dust they created. Those who view the 90-year period of the republic as a wreck, by means of the republic, by means of the parliament, by the prime minister, by the minister, by the president, have no right to say such a thing, and they have no right to say it. Today no one will respect those who disbelieve in the past or respect them in the future, and I want to make it clear to them. My dear friends, many mistakes have been made in the past, so it is no longer possible for the government to make these mistakes, and they are no longer affordable to make them. We've been cheated. There's no need to say it. You must rule this country by securing the country's safety, by providing peace in the country, and that's how I end my words. I salute you all again, with love.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0018par0215	Thank you, Mr. lion. Now, fifth speaker, Istanbul MP Didem Engin. Mr. Engin, your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0019par0220	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we're discussing the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology 2016. Last month, when I was talking about the World Industry 4.0, the fourth industrial revolution, I was talking about how our country got behind the world in science, technology, innovation and RD, and how we needed revolutionary reforms to get to a stronger position in global competition. While our government plans to produce domestic and national cars, the cars that were most popular at the International Geneva Auto Fair began a few days ago were smart cars. Driverless automobiles based on road lines, driven the driver, designed to use tools to prevent accidents, and other vehicles on the road to communicate with them. Similarly, intelligent factories are an indication of how digitalization changes industry radically. For example, last August, the Korean government announced that it would build 900 smart factories by the end of the year. The three-dimensional modeling and pressure systems are transforming from health to transportation, from food to the building industry. We can replicate the samples. A few days ago, NASA announced it would launch a silent commercial design that was faster than sound, and reported a new era in transportation. Again, a few days ago, China announced plans to launch its second space lab into space in 2016. In 2020, he plans to build his first space station in four years. In our country, there are no qualified business ideas to apply for the Technological Access Support Programme, a programme for young entrepreneurs in high-tech. Although the total budget for projects was $50 million, I looked at the Ministry's analysis of the impact, and in 2014, only $26.5 million was used. This is an indication of the lack of qualified applications. Our country's lacks in high-tech and added production, inadequacies in our educational system, and the challenges that entrepreneurs face in this example are very clear. Unfortunately, the development of science, industry and technology in the world, the shortcomings of our country, how we can find solutions with common mind and analyse the budget in detail in parliament is not possible because of the economic, social, social and foreign policy problems that our country is in today. We're in a time when the terrorist incidents in the Middle East, which we once watched, have reached our capital, and each day, we're burned to death by the news of the martyrs and the pain of another city. Today, I ask God's mercy on our lost martyrs, his loved ones and their families for strength and patience. In eastern and southeast of our country, hundreds of thousands have had to leave their homes and migrate to other cities in the last few months. Many counties have been destroyed. The remaining social, social, and emotional debris, as the prime minister explained in his action plan, is not simple enough to be solved by reviewing the city's infrastructure and rehabilitating roads. The government needs to understand the sufferings that have been going on for years, to be cuddly, and to approach its own citizens with compassion. We must all be able to establish the steps that have lived together in this land for centuries, together in sorrow and glory, to strengthen the unity and integrity of the Turkish and Kurdish peoples. Our foreign policy is a complete stalemate - a story of failure that begins with zero problems and active foreign policy rhetoric with a arrogant approach, describing itself as the wise quarterback, who wants to revitalize the Ottomans and strip them of the leadership of the Islamic world and end up as part of sectarian games. The external economic relations dimension of this bankrupt foreign policy has driven our producers, our industrialists, our exporters, and our foreign contractors into a straitlock. In 2015, exports declined by 8.7 per cent from the previous year to 143 billion dollars, while in January 2016, 21 per cent declined. Exports to Iraq have been reduced by 48 per cent, exports to Russia by 46 per cent. Our tourism revenues declined by 8.3 per cent in 2015. Due to the government's lack of measures to sector problems on time, 2016 and 2017 are described as the missing year. As unemployment rises to 10.5 percent, youth unemployment is 19.3 percent, and worse, despair and pessimism are increasingly common in our society. Our relations with the European Union have been reduced only to a desk-to-table negotiation on refugees from Syria. More than ever, we need to strengthen our relations with the European Union, internalize the values represented by the European Union. These values are stated in Article 2 of the EU Treaty: "The European Union is based on the principles of respect for human rights, including human honour, freedom, democracy, equality, rule of law and the rights of members of minorities. These values are associated with member states in a society dominated by pluralism, discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and women's equality. (Unfortunately, 2016 Turkey is a country far away from the image of a country that adopts these values; on the contrary, it is a country in which the rule of law and judicial decisions are rejected by the highest authorities of the state, in which the Court of Human Rights of Europe is first in violations of human rights and freedom. That's where the AKP government alone has brought our country for 14 years. Our beautiful country deserves a much better government than that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0020par0233	Thank you, Mr. Engin. Sixth speaker, Congressman Melike Basmacı. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Bassman, your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0021par0238	Mr. President, dear Regents, I salute you with love and respect. Today, if I can speak freely here, I owe it to my Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who says, "Everything we see on the face of the earth is the work of a woman." [[Applause from CHP rows]] I am a woman of the republic, daughter of Halide Edip Adilvar, daughter of the Black Fatmas, daughter of Turkan Saylan, daughter of Elif Bani, the daughter of Elif Bani, who covered her son with a bullet for his country.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0022par0242	Nene Hatun...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0021par0243	Today, I'd like to tell a story to those who call it a 90-year-old commercial break. I think the best answer would be this story. There was a whole lot of sycamores, and the wind blew the seeds of ivy into the bottom of this tree. The vine began to grow under the influence of spring. As his leaves grew, so did his arrogance. He turned to the tree in his shadow and said, "I think you've been here for a long time, but look, I've been here for two months, and you've been here for how many years?" Chinar said: "Nine years. " He laughed with Ivy arrogance... and then, just like today, the season of hazan came, and the vine began to turn yellow, and to fade. He was anxious to ask the nunnara: "What's happening to me?" said Chenar: "You are dying." He said, "Why? Because you have come to the place where I have come with labor, faith, love, and love in two months." [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, my dear Regents, you should all know that our republic is a great tree, with its roots in Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Ismet Inöne, Halide Edib Adıvar, the blood of the Black Fatmas and our grandfathers, celebrating the Day of Women's 8th March, when all the women who worked hard in my country can't afford to change this system. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We've been talking about government budgets here for days, and I think we should talk about people's budgets. It's been a hundred days since the government began its mission. Let's take a look at this report card in a hundred days and look at everyone's budget. For example, if we were to go out to the street, and ask the tradesman, the clerk, the worker, the businessman, how would you do? I asked you when you came over so you wouldn't get tired. The shopkeeper said: "My back has been bent from the credits. End of February, early March tax month. Ads, ad signs, that's the whole thing. That's not enough, you put a chair on the street, you fine the roof, you punish the malls, you torture the entire tradesmen. Then I asked an officer. He told me: "The house has become a dream, a nightmare of rent, children, burning, food, inflation, meat, and credit cards. There are also those who can't be appointed. What do they do? He's still on his mother's father's back. The officer's pensioner has been waiting for a hundred days. Traveled, percentage, promotion, day passed, but the water bill didn't stop, the electricity bill didn't stop, the hospital didn't stop. I asked the minimum wage worker, you probably don't have a problem, you just got a raise. He said: I'm worried about bread and onions. A dollar a loaf of bread, three pounds an onion. Can't you stop warming up and dressing and traveling and give up on bread and onions? Give my regards to those who pay $1,447 minimum wage and take it back with a cut when the hunger limit is 1,447 lira in our country.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0023par0249	They sent their regards on November 1st.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0021par0250	And I asked the businessman a hundred days ago, how are you? He said: "Credit shortages, market losses, reduced exports, reservation problems, euro-do imbalances, dump laws..." I mean, he's been waiting for stability for a hundred days. But don't think that for a hundred days, the government, the AKP MPs, have sat idle. Of course they did. What did they do in a hundred days? Last year's Court reports made temporary budgets before they were cleared. What did they do in a hundred days? They passed the RD Act so some of them could use it. What did they do in a hundred days? They passed the tag law, the law of slavery. It's not over yet, they've worked hard, they've worked hard. You know what they did?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0023par0251	What did you do?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0021par0252	They passed laws on Syrian refugees to improve jobs, health, living conditions.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0024par0253	82 per cent of our promises, 53 per cent of reforms...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0021par0254	What did they do in a hundred days? They doubled the president's covered grant. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE] What did they do in a hundred days? They've locked up journalists, taken personnel to public institutions with political interviews. Worst of all, they've given my country despair, despair, poverty, using whatever value my country has, whatever privacy it's got. But as Maxwell said, those who bear witness to the unjust suffering of men bear the shame of their suffering for a lifetime. And remember, divine justice has no statute of limitations. I pay my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0025par0257	However, give it to the AK PARTY for stability.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit01spe0026par0258	Thank you, Mr. Bassman. Congressmans, I'm taking a break from the merger until 1300.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0026par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks on the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Act. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. On behalf of the groups, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, we call to the stand the seventh speaker, Antalya MP Mustafa Akadın. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Aka morning, your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0027par0008	Mr. President, on behalf of my group, I have been promised to discuss the budgets of TUBBA and TÜBITAK. I salute you all and our precious people who follow us with love and respect. In the last 24 hours, I've been in Mardin and Diyarbakir -- according to my figures, I regret to say, I've heard that there are seven -- I respect and thank you for the precious martyrs we've lost; and my condolences to our families and our nation. As we begin, I would also like to honor Professor Tosun Terzoglu, who was recently lost to us today, and Professor Erdal Inönou, a valuable scientist and politician we lost eight years ago, as founding members of TÜBİTAK. Today I address you not only as a political man, but as a friend who has contributed to my 40-year academic identity, the production of information and the management of scientific institutions in our country. Mr. Minister, I'm going to speak especially in the name of our Minister of Industry, Science and Technology, our Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of National Defense forgive me, but since my criticisms will not be directed at them, perhaps they'll be happy to welcome me. I see you among the three most important ministers of Turkey with sincere feelings. I believe the other two are Minister of Education and Minister of Culture. Three ministers to shape our country's future, three ministers responsible for the education, quality of new generations we're going to entrust our future with, and a mission to rescue the country from a medium-income trap. Therefore, the wrongs of these three ministers, including you, are the greatest evil and injustice to the country's future. My dear friends, you should know that quality education, fashion-like capital, brings democracy to the country, brings peace, brings tolerance, and is also the best cure for dictatorship. However, in the name of education, culture, science and technology, there is not a significant qualitative contribution to AKP power, but there is much damage. All the modern savings of the Republic, which we are so proud of, have been destroyed during your time, and the works of the 90 years have indeed been reduced to rubble, as the beloved dictator said. Lifting it will fall into the spirit of us Kuvasimilli. In 2003, the structure of TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK) was politically destroyed in 2008, in the structure of the universities, in 2011. When things went south across the Atlantic, there was one more destruction in the recent past, 1,240 people were terminated. However, these three institutions are the ones that need to be kept out of politics the most. Please leave science and art to those who do it. Are you aware that since 2008, Turkey has been rapidly regressing in world science? Not much, but the South Korea that was behind us twenty-five or thirty years ago has taken us by surprise today. Turkey is missing the train for civilization. Please do not hire or appoint employees from the zoo, İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, into these institutions you represent. Give an account of 50,000 books that TÜBITAK has collected on the grounds that it is not cultural and local. Remember, science is not local, it's universal. Please do not touch Charles Darwin and the theory of evolution. Try to increase investment budgets to at least twice as much as our country's RD budget to the level of 3 or 4 per cent of the non-national market as soon as possible. Friends, like South Korea, who recently managed to escape the world's medium income trap, this share of countries, such as Israel, has now risen to over 4 percent. I'm giving you a high number to cover the distance. Our promise to the European Union was 2%, but so far we have failed to keep that promise, but we are at 1%. Open the way for mental structure and philosophy to develop RD in Turkey. Some of my words go not to my ministers here, but to the Minister of National Education, to the President of Religious Affairs, but to the brain of the children, to the universal science, to the brain of the children, to see that Nasretttin Hoxha had two wives of girls of his grandson's age, to be read in elementary schools. Or what will these children gain in the booking of fairytale heroes of Christian culture with Islamic figures? So what will we gain from the books that Heidi had prayed for, where Pinocchio was put in a hat over his father's head? So we won't be surprised if, at this rate -- today, as one of our very famous writers pointed out -- there are books that tell stories about Tom and Jerry on their way to the house. Dear friends, for what I'm saying, these are obstacles, barriers, in front of our new generation. Let the heroes of Christian tales remain in their own culture, but please don't ruin heroes like Nasrettin Hoxha in our own culture. Look, a professor named Hayati Develi has just been appointed by Mr. President as a member of the NGO. I read his words: The Redheads who perform evil rituals... may God disgrace and name them until the end of the day.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0028par0021	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0027par0022	You have no right to bring this hatred to this country. I'd like to point out that during your rule, production industry exports of high-tech products have been cut in half. I say with scientific data: 1 per cent increase to RD raises exports by 6.5 per cent. You should question patent production, not even a thousand a year, but South Korea is 100 times ours. Mr. Secretary, with your remarks two years ago, especially about this, TÜBITAK, I congratulate you that you have passed on as a sensitive minister of literature, claiming that there is no sense of resetting between father and son. Please focus your feelings on the science and technology of Turkey, and I ask you to add a little science to the feeling. Dear lawmakers, we're either going to do this or we're going to end up in the third division of technology with Namibia and Ivory Coast, just like today. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0029par0028	Thank you, Mr. Akaydun. The eighth speaker is Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Gaytancioğlu, your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0030par0032	Mr. President, dear MPs, dear ministers, today we're going to talk about the Department of Agriculture budget. I'd like to start by saying that if you're looking for an unhappy country that can't produce agriculture, where its farmer is in debt, it's Turkey. Every country in the world supports agriculture because guaranteeing people's need for nutrients is one of the main tasks and important issues of the country. Today, even highly developed countries support agriculture and continue to increase support budgets. In various ways, the state intervenes in production, agriculture, farmers. Even if food materials are inadequate in countries, these needs can be met by periodal imports, but this can lead to the loss of foreign currency and the country's external dependency. For example, Turkey is a net importer country in herbal oils, and its imports are increasing day by day. Our imports, which were $1.3 billion in 2005, are now nearing $4.5 billion. An importer of a country has a problem: Look, you may have money, but you may sometimes face various problems abroad. I'd like to give you an example, an example that we lived in in 2008: Turkey has serious money, outside funds are coming in, we're converting our imports with hot money; we're dependent on good, good but herbal oils in countries like Bulgaria and Moldova; we've taken all the production from them, it's not enough, we've turned to the Argentine market, but there's been internal confusion in Argentina. Can you predict that? No. You're headed for Ukraine, and in Ukraine, the herbal oil is mixed with machine oil, can you predict that? No. So, what's the tone of the raw oil? It went from $900 to $2,700. So you couldn't find the product with your money, so you're a disgrace to your money. So you can go somewhere with import policies. A country must produce, first enough for itself. Another policy we can't predict: did you predict that the Russian plane would be shot down? Did you predict that export markets would shrink? What happened? Three days ago, I walked around Istanbul as an age of fruit and vegetables, pathetic; pears rot, lettuce rots, cucumbers rot. So, what's this? There's a problem with the Russian market stopping exporting. So, do you have a measure, can you predict it? No. So we need to implement a qualified agricultural policy. Because you can't predict this, you say: "We are sufficient for ourselves in some products. " For example, what is it that we are sufficient for ourselves in milk? The price of milk is on the floor. So, if the manufacturer has 10 cows, they give 20 liters of milk per cow, where will 200 litres of milk be sold? We have to see these. What is the matter with us that we are exporters in nuts? We went yesterday, we were in Düzce, the nuts dropped to 8 liras, are there any problems with the markets? I do. Costs over $10. And the manufacturer? The manufacturer's blood is crying. What's he gonna do? Shall they come to Istanbul, which is already 16 million? Shall they come to Ankara, which is already 6 million Ankara. So, what's the solution? The solution is very simple: you give the school milk, you give the school nuts, you help the poor, you organize the supply. Who's gonna do it? Department of Agriculture. Our minister is here, and I told you the other day at Plan and Budget Commission, the Minister's A team, one agricultural engineer at the highest level, one vet. Believe me, if the Ministry of Agriculture is shut down, the farmer won't know, he's cut off from the farmer, Turkish agriculture is in Allah's hands. So, where's our Agricultural Commission? I've been a member of the Agricultural Commission for six months -- has the Agricultural Commission met? Yeah, once it was packed, we took pictures. Did we do anything else besides that? No. And during that time, did the House pass agricultural laws? Yeah. What's the matter? We've adopted a very important law here, we've taken down the VAT, the bait and the fertilizer. So, when asked about the Commission, how do we do it, how do we do it? How do you project this VAT discount to the manufacturer? You didn't ask, you didn't ask, it didn't go to the manufacturer, it went to the brokers' pockets. The VAT in the 8% feed didn't go all the way to the farmer, it went in the middleman's pockets. I'll give you an example: the price of dandruff was $500, now it's $600. Who won? The farmer lost, as usual. So, does the Department of Agriculture have other agencies? Of course, but what did you do with most of it? You've privatized it or you've lost its function. For example, there was TECEL, and you sold TeKEL with the grapes in their stocks at the expense. The office of the land crop is a very beautiful institution, the farmer's black-day friend, but you've even got the black-day writing, the office of the land crops is a friend of the farmer. You say he has no power to intervene, no money to intervene, and his intervention is always late. Well, instead of producing sugar beets, you keep increasing the quota of starch-based sugar in Turkey. Other than that, agricultural sales cooperatives. Who are they? You've reduced their power in the market. Agricultural loan co-ops suck the farmer's blood with high interest rates, like a loan shark, believe me. We don't know what you're doing here, you're trying to do something. The most important foods in medicine are chickpeas, beans, lentils; believe me, if it weren't for Canada, you wouldn't be able to eat dry beans, you wouldn't be able to eat chickpeas, you wouldn't be able to eat lentils. Is it so reckless to be so self-absorbed? Precautions are being taken, such as 225 percent of red meat, and you've dropped the customs tax to zero, what happened? It's meat 40 lira again, we're talking about imports again. So that's not how it works, guys. A country that's qualified for this to happen, based on scientific basis, but has a farmer in it, and it's produced, and it has money in it, so you're going to support the farmer. Don't worry, the peasant in the Republican People's Party will be the master of the nation again. We're gonna take care of tea, we're gonna take care of milk, we're gonna take care of nuts, we're gonna take care of corn, we're gonna take care of agriculture, we're gonna take care of Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0031par0045	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. The ninth speaker is Mr. Orhan Sarıbal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes, Mr. Sarıbal. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0032par0050	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, yes, we're talking about the budget, the agricultural budget, but first of all, spring of March, I wish the country peace. Cemre falls into the ground, where the water, the air, the air, and I want it to go to humanity, and I want it to end this dirty brother war in this country, and I want the peace, and I want it to be established, because we know that the entire budget serves the war budget, the entire budget serves the palace and its supporters, the entire budget serves multinational companies, the entire budget serves the arms trade, the whole budget serves the burden of imperialism; take the oil, the money, the killing, the money, and the whole thing, and I want to come from this particular point of agriculture. Yeah, in agriculture, there's 1980, 45 million people, there's 80 million animals in this country, and there's about $404 million in imports in this country, and there's $1.9 billion in exports, so we're exporting four times as many as our imports. The year 2002, this country has about $3.8 billion in imports, about $4 billion in exports. This year 2016, in this country of 78 million people, unfortunately our exports are $17 billion and our imports are $17 billion. The Minister will be here in a moment, and he'll say that our exports are more than our imports. Right, our exports are more than our imports, but we say that we are a country of direct imports in terms of raw materials in agriculture. What do I mean? Dear friends, we've taken 37,252,000 tons of wheat, 13 years of AKP power. Egypt, 11 million, 980,000 tons. We've taken 4 million 17,000 tons of rice and rice. Sunflower, we bought 7 million 323,000 tons. Soyah, we've taken 16 million 715 thousand tons, which is the record year of 2015, over 2 million tons. Snow is 9 million 676 thousand tons. Oil seeds and derivatives, 55 million tons. Dear friends, in 13 years we've taken 140 million tons of agricultural raw materials and paid about 150 billion dollars, that's the AKP truth. So we say that this budget is an importer's budget, this budget is not the farmer's budget, this budget is the budget of multinational companies. Why? Because multinational corporations give them agriculture medicine, and in this country, money goes to them. The tractor is based on as much import as it can be, going to multinational companies. 70 percent of the fertilizer goes to foreign companies for imports. This country's money feeds the farmers of foreign companies, foreign countries, but it calls the farmer of its own country Mehmet Agha. Karacabey farmer's cancer patient is currently being treated in medical school, but there's an execution, there's an arrest warrant, because he didn't pay for the water company, because he didn't pay for the farm loan, because he didn't pay for the bank. Dear friends, that's what this plant production was like. I'd like to take a quick look at the whole animal thing, and let's take a look at animalism. I just told you, by 2002, Turkey didn't take an animal from outside until they came to power, nor did it travel abroad to meet any meat needs. The year 2010, the import decision was made, and we imported over 3 million living animals from 2010, with 2.2 million small heads and 1.7 million cattle. We imported 211,000 tons of red meat, karkas. What did we give you in return? We paid $4 billion out. Who? We gave it to local collaborators and foreign companies and foreign farmers. So we've got money, lawmakers, we've got money, it's important who gets the money. Look, the 2016 budget envisioned 10 billion in agricultural support. So, what was given to a group of dealers? $53 billion is in the budget. A total of 75 billion dollars, given to the farmer in twelve, thirteen years. So, what's the number given to a handful, one hand in oil, one hand in honey, one percent of this country's wealth, one percent for a happy people like him? $750 billion. I mean, long live Genghis! Why do I say Genghis? This state, who claims to be so powerful, whose tax has been erased from a single company, $400 million in compromise, is unfortunately unable to pay the farmer's water money, electricity money. Yes, it's 2002 again; 2.8 million farmers, six billion in debt. He owes the banks 2.9 billion, total of 6 billion, total. Today we're down to 2 million farmers, 1 million gone. Where? In the cities. What's he doing? Poor. What's he doing? He's trying to hold on to life with all the benefits you've given him. He sold his house, sold his barn, sold his field, there. And do you know how much 2 million farmers owe now, my friends? Over 100 billion. You know, they always say: "We've tripled the price, we've tripled the gross product." Well, that's good, that's good. Well, this farmer's debt has gone up 40 times. What kind of relationship is this? Isn't there a contradiction here? Yeah, I'm running out of time. I have a lot of words to say, but what I want to know is, yes, the troublemakers can't solve the problem. This land, this mountain, this stone, this geography, you didn't inherit it from your father, you and us. You may be consuming this legacy to the end, but don't worry, we're not going to consume it, it's in our hands, we're going to protect it, we're going to protect it to the end. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0033par0063	Thank you, Mr. Saribal. Mr. Bostanci has entered the system. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0034par0068	Mr. President, I've asked for a brief statement. Thank you. While speaking, Mustafa Akadil, a valuable speaker, read there a quote from the bench saying that this person assigned to the RDC had insulted Alevis and the Redheads. Probably based on a newspaper report. Of course, you have to check the news. We also need the opinion of the person involved. The person involved also has a dissertation, but the rebuttal seems to have been missed. In the reference book of Professor Hayati Develi, there is absolutely no negative expression for the Alevis or the Redheads. In fact, it's not even in these two naming books. There's an example there. In the fight between the Dynasties, in a historical text, the criticism of the House of Safavi is, in a slightly deliberate way, translated by media organs. The people here will understand. I think it's due to a flaw, media information. I felt it necessary to make that statement. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0035par0072	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0036par0073	I want an answer.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0035par0074	Mr. Aka morning, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0036par0075	Can I come to the stand?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0035par0076	Why?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0036par0077	There's bullying.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0035par0078	Mr. Akayd, I promised Mr. Bostancı, because he needed a fix, not a tease.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0036par0079	The need to fix it, yes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0035par0080	But if you want to make a statement, I'll give you a minute of your time.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0036par0081	I want a promise to fix it.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0035par0082	Here you are, Mr. Akadun.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0036par0084	Mr. President, thank you very much. Sir, I've made a statement in the Radical newspaper and the Internet press. I don't know if there's any professor's thesis on it, whether it's there or not. So, what I'm talking about here today is an important place in Turkey's media, and it has created a great deal of anger and reaction in the entire Alevi community. Therefore, it is not as Naci Bey said. This needs to be made clear, and it needs to be retaliated by the head of the CEC, or it needs to be done.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0037par0086	There's a catchphrase, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0038par0087	Well, Mr. Akadun, your words are on the record as well. Thank you. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2014 CIRCLE AND VICTIMAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND DETECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account Congressmans, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the tenth speaker is Manisa MP, Mr. Mazlum Nurlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Nurlu, your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0039par0129	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, valued lawmakers, we're going through a process in the east, southeast, every corner of the dorm where attacks on our unity, our brotherhood, almost every day make martyr's funerals more painful. I wish our martyrs mercy, condolences and patience to our nation. As a farmer, a member of the Republican People's Party, I have made a pledge on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalry on behalf of the Republican People's Party. I salute the High Council and its citizens who are watching us on their screens. Seeing agriculture and farmers as a problem, the political approach today, leaving them alone with their own difficult living conditions, makes the Turkish farmer pay for his inefficientness, the Turkish peasant. Will this nation feed you? Those who take them down to the level of feeding should remember that they are still the Turkish farmer, the Turkish peasant who feeds this country. The fact that our farmer has been scolded from the master's office to the feeding post is a result of the crooked view of the AKP order to the farmer and the peasant. When it was a self-sufficient country in agriculture, unfortunately, we only imported $11 billion in agricultural imports in 2015. Notice, AKP spokesman talk about the increase in exports, but for some reason, agricultural imports are increasingly high. Sadly, an export of agriculture in the Netherlands, which is the size of our province's face measurement, is $90 billion, and Turkey's export of agriculture is $17 billion. Congressmans, the world's most developed and industrialized countries are also the largest agricultural producers in the world. The world's foreign trade conflicts between developed countries and developing countries are based on agricultural support that rich countries provide to their own farmers and enhance their competitive advantage. The agricultural economy is a special area of economics. Agriculture is not like industry and commerce. Agriculture policies are judged by the social dimension of a country, along with its economic size. Therefore, national agricultural policies must have a profit-harm account when it is determined, but should not be a priority. The European Union, which we aim to enter, has announced to its members that its budget allocates about 40 per cent each year to support agriculture and will support its farmers with an average of 50 billion euros per year by 2020. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the merchant's surprise, boasted of his money, not his property, but his debt. On behalf of the government, the minister boasts that the farmer's loans have increased, so the farmer's debt has increased, and unfortunately, he offers it as a success. Now, I ask the Minister: Is it a success to raise the farmer's debt to $28.5 billion, which is $530 million in 2002? Is it a success to make 13 million farmers in debt? Is it a success to put a mortgage on 40 per cent of the land in the country, 60 per cent of the land in Manisa? On the contrary, they're not successes, they're indicators of bad management, they're numbers. Dear lawmakers, especially Mr. President, we are dealing with the illegal behavior of the AKP governments. The Supreme Court's rulings, even their own laws, are not recognized or taken into custody. The 21st article of the Agricultural Law, which was released in 2006 and supported by our party, is funded by budgetary resources. The funding from the budget can't be less than 1 per cent of the non-employee." he says. According to this clause, which is an executive sentence, at least 1 per cent of the illegitimate nation must be given as support to the farmer each year. And did the AKP governments give this support? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Their number is 8.4 billion, 5 billion, 5 billion, 555 million, non-official million, 0.66 per cent; our 2010 foreign national product is 1 quadrillion 100 billion, 11 billion, which should be given, 5 billion, 817 million, which should be given in foreign property, 0.5 billion, 555 million, 555 million, non-national product ratios, 0.6 per cent; our 2010 non-billion, 1 billion, 100 billion, that should be given 11 billion, 5 billion, 817 million, non-inflicted per cent, 53 percent of non-billion, 1 billion, 1 billion, 1 billion, 1 billion, 1 billion, 1 billion, 1 million, 1 million, 1 million, 1 million, 1 million, 1 million, 1 million, 1 million, 1 million, 1 million, 1 million, 1 million, 1 million, 1 million, 0 million, million, 0 million, 0 million, 0 million, 1 million, million, million, 1 million, 0 million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, million, As a result, from 2006 to 2015, the amount of support needed to be paid to the farmer was 118 billion, but the support was unfortunately at 64 billion. Long story short, the AKP governments owe the farmer 54 quadrillion backers that he didn't pay for. In 2016, the illegitimate national estate is expected to reach 2 quadrillion 200 billion, according to this table, which requires 22 billion support this year. As a final statement, the powerful farmer, strong Turkey. I salute the General Assembly with respect to the fact that we are living with the food produced by our farmer, and especially because of this reason alone, we are all indebted to them.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0040par0140	Thank you, Mr. Nurlu.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0041par0141	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0040par0142	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0041par0143	According to the Civil Charter 60, we will have a brief request for our group.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0040par0144	Is it yours, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0041par0145	Garo Paylan Beyin.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0040par0146	Yes, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0042par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you know, our budget was discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission for 26 days before we landed at the General Assembly, and we worked on Fridays and Sundays in the Plan and Budget Commission. And on Fridays, actually, Mr. President took a Friday prayer break for an hour and a half. So, after Friday's recess, we'll be working on Sunday, friends, and I have a meeting on Sunday, and I've asked for a Sunday service. With the support of all our friends, it's Sunday mass. You've just officially had a Friday prayer break. Normally, the break was given at twelve, like one-one-and-a-half, and it was given longer. Our General Assembly will also be working on Sunday. In that case, all our friends, many of them, have prayed on Friday, God willing. You have friends in almost all groups of Christian lawmakers in our parliament now, and on Sunday the General Assembly will meet at eleven. We also have churches in Ankara -- between eleven and twelve thirty, and in this framework on Sunday...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0040par0152	Complete, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0042par0153	... I demand a Sunday mass between eleven and twelve thirty. I also think that all of our friends in the General Assembly will support this, and I expect their suggestions and opinions in this framework. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0040par0155	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. We'd also like to present the attention of our Speaker of Parliament, who will conduct the session on Sunday.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0042par0157	But it has to be decided in advance.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0040par0158	Of course, the decision maker is actually our Speaker, and we're conveying this request to him. I'm also going to talk to him, Mr. Paylan, and I'm going to stress that this request should be taken into account especially in terms of Sunday mass. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0042par0160	Thank you. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2014 CIRCLE AND VICTIMAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND DETECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0043par0197	The last speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is Mr. Old Durmaz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Durmaz, your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0044par0200	Thank you. Mr. President, honored members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and our fellow citizens watching us on screen, I salute you all with respect, love and conversation on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. I wish our country the best of the 2016 budget. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to address the privatisation of sugar factories that concern our people, our health. The sugar beets industry is an area with a high added value that employs millions of people. It's an industrial site that provides the transportation to its workers, its farmers, its feeders, its thousands of people. Today, sugar factories are part of privatisation, despite the high profit rate and the importance of the sugar industry. Our government is used to selling the Republic's gains, values, and saving the day. Dear lawmakers, privatizing sugar factories means condemning our country's people to corn syrup. Although starch-based corn syrup with GMO content threatens human health, our country is building a structure that will increase quotas by close to 50 per cent. The authority to increase it was left only to the government without the opinion of any NGO. It is 1.9 per cent in Germany and 3 per cent in Poland and 0 in France, England and the Netherlands. I repeat: this rate can be raised to 50 percent on us. Unfortunately, the Europeans will be less ill with less sweetener than we are, while the Turkish people are forced to be poor, as they are forced to be sick. No one knows that corn syrup found in many diet products and processed foods increases the risk of obesity, liver oil, diabetes and cancer, increasing the death of heart attacks. So let's shut down the sugar mills, build a lot of private hospitals. Dear lawmakers, the quota of artificial sweetener is increased in Turkey because there are multinational companies to feed and grow. So, this American Cargill company, this world giant, is growing in our country, our producer, our farmer, is getting smaller; our people are getting poor, they are forced to migrate from their land, and those who can't move with it are losing their health. Again, what a pity, Muzaffer Bayataç, the CEO of the American company Cargill, is being made one of the seven directors of the Sugar Foundation in Turkey. The sugar company is designed, designed, not to protect the health of our farmer and our people, but to protect the interests of the giant American company. Who would protect our country's interests from these companies? Our government. But, we're looking at it, and the government has given it to us, so beautiful. So, where's the government? He does not think of the interests of this country, either in sugar or in TECEL, as in all things. Is that your nationality? That's your nativeism? Dear lawmakers, you have taken the Candy Law into the government program, and you will soon bring it to Parliament, using your existing numerical majority to enforce it. This will be the death sentence of the sugar beets and the farmer. The Candy Law will finish its sugar beets and raise the American giants. But don't you think the people of this country, the Republican People's Party of this country, will answer to you? Our people, who voted for you in all good faith, now see what you've done. I also believe that in the future and in the first election, you will answer for it. Dear lawmakers are currently covered by the privatisation of 25 sugar factories and eight factories. The sugar beets industry is the main source of the production of rough bait, sourdough, sugar, melas, alcohol and ethanol. Dear lawmakers, ethanol, produced today from sugar beets and sugarcane, is now developed in the world to use cheap fuel as an additive to oil, but there is no work in this area. Today, the Alpullu, Susurity, Pain and Wednesday factories are unable to produce because of the privatisation nightmare. The factories are the national values of this country, the functioning wheel of our economy, from Kars, to Eskişehir, to Turhal, from Susurluk, to Turhal, but unfortunately, there are those who want to stop this wheel. Why force people to emigrate when they can keep them in the land they're born in? Dear friends, the Turhal Sugar Factory is almost the same age as the Republic, the number one industrial and production centre in the region. You also calculate the total population of 500 permanent employees, 500 subcontractors, a total of a thousand workers, the movers, the feeders, the drivers, 78,000 farmers, the number of family members within 1,500 acres of the city. All of these provide for themselves from this factory and from related by-products. Dear lawmakers, guess who's in the privatisation tender for sugar factories? You guessed, didn't you? Yes, and here comes Mehmet Genghis. Now I think you understand why these privatisations are happening. We wonder what's so special about this Mehmet Cengiz, who is not in the Turkish people. You take it from the poor man's table and give it to Genghis, is that a conscience? It is not the fate of this country that this nation should be handed over all its values to this people who have blasphemed against this nation by the AKP government. Dear friends, you could now buy natural sugars from those factories with sacks like this, but now that it's down to this, you're not going to find it, you're going to eat the beans with artificial sweeteners. So I say, Mr. Secretary, before the day is over -- you're an experienced Minister -- let's call it quits. Dear friends, when it comes to our area... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...Tokat emigrated nearly 400,000 with the closure of a Tekel Cigarette Factory, but with the closure of this factory, the damage and destruction of the sugar factory will no longer be able to be removed. I call this budget a red card to the AKP government who sold public resources to save the day. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0045par0217	Thank you, Mr. Durmaz. Congressmans, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the speeches are complete. Now it's time for the MPs to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. The first speaker is Ankara MP Erkan Haberal. Your time is 17 minutes, Mr. Haberal. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0046par0224	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Dear ministers of the Republic of Turkey, my fellow bureaucrats, I salute you. I would like to hereby send greetings to our country's heroic soldiers, our carabinieri, our gendarmes, our private operatives, our police, our special police operatives. I'd also like to say, curse those who drink the water of the country and eat their bread and breathe its air and try to kill tens of thousands of our citizens since Erukh. We also have a message from the front. Mr. Secretary, almost a million petty officers and their families expect you to keep your promise. They demand that their initial degrees be level 2 of the 9th degree. I expect your attention, sir, as well as the duties and severance from the Prime Minister, which are promised once and for all, to be passed through the House. Budgets are grounds for the government's actions and policies and for political accounting. The government's record in this area is impaired and dark. Today, Turkey faces heavy domestic and external security problems. When we look at your policies, we come across a very worrying, misty, dark picture. PKK terrorism has been moved to cities due to the dissolution process. The separatists' uprisings were caused by the process of dissolution that you started and failed to calculate the end. The so-called declaration of autonomy is the result of the solution process of our martyrs who were killed in the fight against terrorism. Bombs that explode in Ankara's heart are the result of the wrong policies you follow. In Syria and Iraq, serious developments have taken place, while Turkey has lost dignity and grounds in all areas, deterrentism has been reset. After Iraq, the PKK settled north of Syria. The ISIS threat has increased for both Turkey and the region. Syrian Turkmen have been massacred. It's all a result of the wrong policies you follow. Teacher, when I say without you, I mean the government, but I'm talking to you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0047par0230	Of course, we're the same.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0046par0231	The process of resolving the government with the Imran killer is where we come in. You've accepted the terrorists as political advisors. You have given the PKK the hope and courage to fulfill its separatist goals. You have placed Turkey's national unity and indivisible integrity at the negotiating table in Imralı. Habur, Oslo, and Dolmabahce were the embarrassing milestones of the process of being dragged into this disaster, and you laid them out one by one with your hands. You hid the truth, created false expectations. You have systematically and consciously deceived the Turkish nation. You said that the PKK would go out of bounds, drop weapons. You brought the terrorist into the city, and we realized that despite all the warnings of soldiers, police and security forces, you ignored them. I mean, you let it go for the sake of the Imran process. You lured our security forces to barracks and outposts, tied their hands, and made the sons of your country watch from afar, as passive observers. The PKK has left no weapons, Deputys, it was Turkey's security forces who left weapons. While the armed militants of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) used the powers of sovereignty in the region, you mothers would not cry, good things would happen. You distracted the Turkish nation with lies. On the one hand, you encouraged separatist traitors, winked at them, and in the west of Turkey, you pursued political rants by falsifying rhetoricalism. Turkey's security, national unity and integrity were set on fire with a vote account. As a result, last year, terrorists in Diyarbakır, Şırnak, Mardin and other selected places in the region launched armed riots, separatist traitors announced shamelessly that the path from autonomy to federation and finally to independent Kurdish state was opened. The PKK was encouraged by the government's failure and developments in Syria, and it attempted to transport Kobani (Kobani) to Diyarbakira, Cizreye, Silopi (Sylopi), and the region returned to its place of fire. After all, it's obvious where we've come from, and since July 20th, we've martyred 379 children. The plague of our martyrs is on the shoulders of those who condone it, a sad fact that the government still does not learn from these developments. When the armed uprising began, the government protected the solution process and attempted to put it in the refrigerator, unfortunately it can't unplug the refrigerator and leave it to rot, it still seems to rely on the process of betrayal. In the future, when the environment and conditions are appropriate, the division process will be removed from the refrigerator and reheated and brought to the front of Turkey. The 10-point division manifest of the terrorist leader, who is official in Dolmabahçe and is the road map of Turkey's division, will be replaced at the table again. The new constitutional process is also expected to be used for this purpose. The Dolmabahçe process has been interrupted due to a pre-election vote loss concern. In this regard, it would be no surprise that the Imran process was removed from the refrigerator and revived with a new phrase and a new cover. In time, it will be understood if the new process of unity and brotherhood, which the Prime Minister announced earlier in February, is a maneuver in this direction. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the state's foreign and security policies have been bankrupted in every area, the wire is being poured out. The developments in Iraq and Syria have revealed this painful truth. The government's failures in Iraq and Syria and its unsupervised policies have exposed Turkey today to grave security risks, dangers, and threats. Starting with Iraq, the PKK, which Barzani has been protecting, continues to use northern Iraq as an attack base against Turkey. Turkmen, who the government turned away and left at the mercy of Barzani, are dying. Turkmen are stuck between ISIS and Barzani, and they are desperate and desperate to survive. Barzani also changed Musul's population structure after Kerkuk, with systemic Kurdish housing policies. Today the government's only contact and ally in Iraq is unfortunately Barzani and his pursuers. The historical Turkmen, such as Mosul, Kerkuk, and Telafer, rely on the government, Erbil and Süleymaniye, who have forgotten their hands. Barzani, a government partner, has come to the stage of establishing an independent Kurdish state in northern Iraq. Barzani, we are not asking permission from anyone to form the Kurdish nation's independent states. He also had the courage and courage to challenge his words. The main and only person dealing with this threat is Barzani, who pursues the imagination of the great four-part Kurdistan state, the Republic of Turkey. The four-part state is wanted in Iraq, Syria, Iran and Turkey. Northern Iraq will lead the way, three PYD cantons in Syria will come from behind, and the part in Turkey will be brought to life through the Imralı process. The government sees Barzani as the only legitimate contact in Iraq and provides political and security support for the head of this heist. As a result, our relations with the Iraqi Central Government have come to a standstill. The turning of the main training camp into a serious problem between Turkey and the Iraqi government has been the result of the government's ill-advised policy. Turkey has not been able to make a constant, consistent stance on the issue. First he drew reinforcements from the Bashika camp under the name of re-recognision, eventually the United States was involved, and it was announced that Turkey had agreed with the United States on new initiative and co-ordination. No one knows what this new initiative and coordination is, what it means in reality. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has not been informed either. This agreement predicts that the remaining Turkish forces in the camp are gradually retreating and spreading to time. As Turkey's relations with Iraq deteriorate, Iran and Russia's influence and influence in Iraq is growing. The Iraqi Central Government has formed an Iranian-Russian front against Turkey. As a result of Iraqi policies conducted through Barzani, Turkey has reached the point of exclusion from Iraq. The developments in Syria are also a complete ruin for Turkey. All the government's arguments have failed. There's no credibility, no deterrent, no red line. The government has been swept away in Syrian politics, not knowing which way it's headed. Today's Syrian painting is a source of concern in every way. The PKK and its tongs, the PYD, formed a second attack front in northern Syria, similar to the one in northern Syria versus northern Iraq. When the three cantons declared autonomous zones by the PYD join, our southern borders will be surrounded by hostility under PKK control. Turkmen and Arabs in this region have been slaughtered by the PYD, driven from their homeland. The biggest danger facing us today is that the PKK and the NYD are gaining international legitimacy. Even worse, the PYD has become an operational partner in the fight against ISIS, both the United States and Russia. The United States and Russia do not consider the NYD to be an organic terrorist organisation with an organic connection to the PKK. It is inevitable for the government to conduct an honest accounting of conscience on this matter. Who took the first steps in giving the PKK's tongs to the PYD? Isn't Salih Müslim, the leader of the PYD, the government that welcomes him in Turkey? Didn't the government, who couldn't protect the Shah Temple, ask for PYD to sign and cooperate in the abduction of the shrine chests to Turkey? Bloody terrorist organization ISIS is a serious security issue for Turkey. Turkey has gained the potential for acts of terror within it and has also begun implementing it. ISIS controls a portion of our Syrian border today, the Cerablus-Azez line. The situation in the field, however, is constantly changing, and ISIS is regressing in these areas. After being completely removed from this region, our border area will be under the control of Russia, the Syrian regime and the PYD. Turkey has announced that the PYD will not remain silent if it moves west of Fırat, but the government has not backed that promise. The armed arm of the PYD has been transferred to the west of Fırat, including the forces of the YPG. AKP spokesman must have confessed to that fact. It is a fact that PYD is moving from the canton of Afrin to Cerablus, the westernmost. It is obvious what happened in Azez. With these developments, it is now a matter of time before the PYD put together three cantons. Turkey's red line is also seen to be violated. The fall of the Russian aircraft, which violated our airspace last year, has radically changed the Syrian equation in terms of Turkey. While the government talks about creating a no-fly zone in Syria, we are almost unable to fly on the Syrian border today. In this sense, Turkey has been pushed out of the Syrian equation. In support of Iran, Hezbollah and Russia, the Damascus regime is gaining ground on every front. Russian planes brutally hit Turkmen, Turks are dying, no one hears their screams. The environments that raised the world up about Kobani have become silent in the face of these massacres. The government, which opened a corridor on Turkish soil to pass Barzani's armed hemmen to Kobani, is silent and still in the face of the Turkish people's drama. The refugees who moved to Turkey are making the problem worse, and a mass migration is expected after Aleppo's siege by Syrian forces from the north. A solution will be found to the war in Syria. The elements that would be at the table in the process have largely emerged, and the Turkmen are not here either. The government has made no serious attempt on this matter. Despite all of Turkey's objections, the PYD is seen to be part of the negotiation process in some way. The war will end, there will be a new political architecture, a new political transformation and construction process. While the parameters and bargaining elements of the new political architecture are becoming increasingly formed, the aim of the brutal action against the Turkmen is to clear the Aleppo-Sham-Lazqiye line from the Turks, starting south of the Turkish border. These areas are seen as a prerequisite for the existence of the post-war Assad regime. The PKK/PYD will dominate areas beyond Turkey's southern borders. As a result of the crash of the Russian plane, the new equations and foundations are being reshaped. Unfortunately, Turkey is not involved in this equation. At this point today, the picture will not be denied that it is a source of great concern in political, security and economic aspects. The terrorist organization PYD has been permanently established on our southern borders. Minister, ISIS has also become a domestic security issue for Turkey. Turkmen were victims of mass murder and were removed from their homes. Nearly 3 million Syrian asylum seekers left Turkey to deal with heavy economic, social and security issues. Because of the PYD, Turkey and the United States have developed a deep rift. Our relations with Russia have been severely damaged, Russia has been our neighbor from the north and the south, waiting for hostility towards Turkey. This has come from the basis of the government's original policy, which is crippled and wrong. The National Movement Party has repeatedly warned the government of these matters, but these warnings have not been met. I would like to remind you once again that the National Movement Party is always on the side of state, flag, nation for the sake of the country, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0048par0246	Thank you, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0049par0247	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0050par0248	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0048par0249	Mr. Group Vice Presidents... Mr. Bostanci, Mr. Baluken has been in the system before, so I'll make a promise in order. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0051par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, today we have followed President Erdogan's very low-level, severe insults against our party, our group and our lawmakers, which are also reflected in the press today. I, like I said, don't think I'm going down to that level. However, I am doubling and returning to him all the insults he has spread about our party, our group, and our MPs. For a long time, on the will of Parliament, he has established a sense of custody over the institutions of the judiciary and all the peoples of the administration, leading this country to disaster. A person inside and outside who has turned this country into chaos and war just for the sake of the presidential account is now trying to change the agenda of this chaos and war environment, which has dragged our people into this disaster. We're following this closely. We're not gonna let him change that agenda. We'll never let him get away with a lynching campaign, especially by targeting the HDP (HDP) for pursuing crimes committed against humanity and against the outside. We will continue our fight here, on the streets, on the streets, on the squares, in a stronger way, against a mindset that threatens the HDP (HDP) and thinks it will frighten them. For what it's worth, the People's Democratic Party won't take a step back from its own position. However, those who drive the country into a storm of coups and wars and turn the country into a stream of blood should continue to fear the fight carried out by HDP (HDP). [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0052par0259	One moment, Mr. Baluken... Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0051par0261	Our position on the fezlekes is very clear. We, the Democratic Party of Peoples, have been defending all 550 MPs and the President of the United States for crimes other than treason. As a group willing to pay any price, we also advise that not everyone, along with this process, will not run away from a politicalized judgment. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0052par0263	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0053par0266	Mr. President, thank you. Since July, the terrorist attack has been placed in the following context: The palace and the AK PARTI rule is leading Turkey to war. But what's happening is a terrorist attack against Turkey, the people who live here, the safety of their lives and property for various reasons. The purpose of such a binding is the Palace, the EC PARTY on one side, the PKK on the other. It is supposed to be coming and going to circles against Saray and the AK PARTI. It's a strategy. He criticises this language, the politics representing this language, as a person in charge of this country's unity and ministry, as well as HDP's approach to this binding from time to time in this framework. There's nothing to take in, nothing to look at.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0054par0269	It's an insult.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0053par0270	By putting aside this criticism and changing its context again, it is also spoken with the intention of coming to various opposing circles with the intention of doing so. There is no value in saying that. It's a strategy, it's a propaganda language, I reject it very clearly. On the other hand, Mr. Haberal has voiced criticism as he spoke. Thank you. Critics are done.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0055par0272	Was I wrong, Hajji?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0053par0273	But the statements included the promise of treason policies. I'm sure Mr. Haberal has great respect for our nation. Our nation of great respect does not employ traitors, Mr. Haberal. For 14 years, the AK PARTY has been in power in this country, so let's not forget that whoever is in power tomorrow, the traitors will not be in power. There's no criticism, there's no betrayal, please. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0056par0275	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0057par0277	In his assessment, Mr. Bostanci teased me by claiming that I completely distorted the information I had given him, that I had actually presented the concept of fighting a walking terror in a different way to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0058par0278	He's not gonna say anything, is he? He won't talk, or he won't answer?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0057par0279	I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0059par0280	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. I'll give you my word on the stand for two minutes. Mr. Gök, I'll listen to you after Mr. Baluken. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0060par0285	Thank you, Mr. President. Everyone accepts now that there is a palace and headquarters coup in this country.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0061par0287	Just because you say it doesn't mean no one has to admit it.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0062par0288	That's what you think. That's what the terrorist group's followers think.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0060par0289	No matter how much you operate on perception, everyone knows that the bill that we're paying now is a bill that every blow is imposed on the public. Look, about your counterterrorism assessment. Take a look at these photos, these photos were taken from Cizre yesterday.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0062par0291	The PKK is a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0060par0292	You know very well who's responsible for this ruined, ruined city center.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0062par0293	They're terrorist headquarters.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0063par0294	We know it's coming because of you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0060par0295	You know, when you've been on this stand lately, trying to confess, you know, the divisionist terrorist group destroyed it, burned it.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0064par0296	Yeah, say one sentence, for God's sake, terrorist.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0065par0297	The militants were considered a terrorist organization by the world's public.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0060par0298	Look, the whole world knows that the organization you're talking about doesn't have any weapons to create this landscape, and the whole of Turkey knows it. Which tanks of that destruction...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0066par0299	Answer those bombs, those bombs.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0060par0300	...the whole world knows he was created with guns coming out of which cannons. Look, look at this photo.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0066par0301	Respond to PKK's bombs.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0060par0302	Look, look at this photo.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0067par0303	Yesterday you attacked the military with a mortar, no gun. You say, "Baluken." Be realistic when you're talking, Baluken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0060par0304	In these photos, the Secretary of Defense is here, military officials are here...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0068par0305	PKK did it, PKK did it. The PKK did it, the PKK did it. It says it's a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0060par0306	...with the AKKK's AKK, if you say a building is going to be like this, come out here and explain it to us.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0069par0307	Answer the bombs, answer the bombs.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0060par0308	I don't have military knowledge.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0070par0309	PKK did this, PKK. The PKK has organized a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0060par0310	But this painting of destruction that you've laid out, in the cities where you've turned it into a ruin...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0071par0311	Your live bombs did it, your live bombs.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0060par0312	...the violence you've created in the basements and buildings of civilians you've killed is the result of this palace and headquarters coup...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0072par0313	The PKK is killing a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0060par0314	...and believe me, it will bring with it a very heavy bill in the international court a grand trial.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0073par0315	Is that the attack on the street of Cerasim...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0074par0316	Your reckoning is near.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0060par0317	I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0074par0318	Your reckoning is imminent.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0075par0319	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0076par0320	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0075par0321	Mr. Botanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0076par0322	Mr. President, the government of the Republic of Turkey and the AK PARTI have made a clear challenge by describing this nation's struggle against terrorism as a coup. I want words in this frame according to 69.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0075par0323	Here you go, Number Botanist.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0076par0326	Mr. President, dear friends, we know this language that Mr. Baluken has repeatedly repeated here. We know what this language means. Actually, Mr. Baluken knows why he's doing this. Precious friends, in July 2015, after certain developments, there was a terrorist attack against the people in Turkey against the unity of these people, against the safety of life and property. Since then, there is an organization called the PKK. He has already been doing it for thirty years. As a result, in 2015, a new phase became a new trend. The state, of course, has fought against this terrorist organization that put the revolutionary public war strategy into practice. Now, it's either pureness or a cover-up, an attempt to be an umbrella, an umbrella, an attempt to negotiate the destruction of terrorists, killings, massacres, and the government, to present them here as if the state had destroyed the buildings for no reason. Of course those terrorists will face their punishment, and they will be rewarded for challenging this nation. He's talking about destruction. Have you seen the destruction this morning, Mr. Baluken? Did you see the destruction there? The destruction of the explosive car and the loss of lives there?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0077par0328	You're their handler.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0076par0329	You say, "Siviller," did you see the civilians there? Mr. Baluken, if you're against terrorism, don't let people die, don't let there be destruction in this country. If you say so, speak to this terrorist organization for God's sake and let this nation rejoice.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0077par0331	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0078par0332	Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0077par0333	Mr. Bostanci has made an open taunt again. He said my comments were either pure or ulterior motive.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0078par0334	Okay, I'll give you two more minutes, Mr. Baluken. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0079par0336	The shop opened today, let's go! Two minutes, two minutes!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0080par0338	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0081par0339	Are you going to condemn terrorism?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0080par0340	Mr. Bostanci, we have condemned every terrorist incident in this country, and we will continue to condemn it. However, we will never allow you to come here and deflect the target.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0082par0341	Not condemning terrorism is also a crime of terror.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0080par0342	You put a concept of war on the field, and every day, unfortunately, we have to experience a sense of condolences, a sense of mourning in this country with heavy bills of war.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0082par0343	War is between the state and the state. We're fighting terrorism.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0080par0344	Nothing would justify murdering a three-month-old baby, a baby in the womb, a 70-year-old mother in civilian settlements.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0082par0345	Don't say it's a dream, prove it.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0080par0346	It doesn't justify the fact that you've been practicing curfews for 90 days that you can't even be seen in a whole city center during times of impact, and that you've just shown me pictures of them.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0082par0347	A curfew is being imposed for public safety, a curfew is being imposed to protect civilians.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0080par0348	Look, I've got the International Rome Status. This Roman Status has 24 articles. All those who oppose it, all those who commit it, are on trial at the International Criminal Tribunal. I'll give you an example: this dictator in Sudan was tried for violating this Roman status right here in my hand. I'm just going to read a few articles: the bombing of cities, villages, settlements, and buildings -- which are not defensive or military targets -- you're probably linking them to photographs -- he left his weapon, killing or wounding someone who lacks self-defense tools. Law-based and widely accepted judicial guarantees without a court order, punishment and execution. A deliberate attack on the civilian population. Don't completely destroy a city where it was seized by the attack. Don't attack those who raise the flag of truce.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0082par0350	It's an exception to what's being done against separatist terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0083par0351	But he's international; he's international; he's not anti-terrorism; he's international.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0080par0352	Like I said, the last person on trial was the Sudanese dictator. For your information.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0084par0354	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0085par0355	Mr. President, 2015...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0084par0356	Just a moment, Mr. Botanci. I promise you all, you know.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0085par0358	Just for the record.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0084par0359	But just now, Mr. Koktaş, the shop opened; one minute, two minutes, we began.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0086par0360	That's right, that's right!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0084par0361	I don't think that's the right approach.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0087par0362	You're giving us a chance, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0088par0363	He sees Congress as a store, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0084par0364	We're in accordance with the Civil Code, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0088par0365	So that's their understanding, that's their seriousness, that's their sincerity! He sees it as a shop!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0084par0366	Lawmakers who come here, lawmakers elected by the will of the people, of course, have the right to speak on this bench.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0089par0367	They're not running the coven!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0088par0368	When a merchant becomes a politician, he sees Parliament as a shop!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0084par0369	Two minutes, five minutes, that depends on my appreciation.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0089par0370	Our agenda is budget, Mr. President, our agenda is budget.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0084par0371	So I don't think that's true. Mr. Bostanci, please, I'll listen to you now.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0090par0373	Mr. President, just for the record. By July 2015, none of the photographs Mr. Baluken showed here, none of them happened. When did this happen?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0091par0375	A bomb went off 50 meters away from me in Diyarbakir, 50 meters away!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0090par0376	Those civilians lived there, those civilians were there. When did this happen?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0092par0377	That started when you shot the cop in the back of the head.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0093par0378	It happened after I shot the cops in the back of the head while they were sleeping.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0090par0379	He was involved in terrorist attacks. To make it look like an attack on civilians is definitely wrong, unfair, an open accusation. What happened is a fight against terrorism, so let's not deviate. Just for the record.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0094par0381	You're driving live bombs all over the place, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0095par0382	Well, it's on the record.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0096par0383	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0095par0384	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0096par0385	For the record, we're dealing with a war concept that was launched into the field, starting before the June 7th election, starting with the bombs that exploded in our Adana and Mersin county buildings, starting with the bombs that went off 50 meters away while I was speaking at Diyarbakır Station Square on June 5th.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0097par0386	You've done roadblocks, you've burned trucks, you've stopped ambulances, you've done executions.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0098par0387	Yeah, there's no war, there's a war on terror, there's a war on terror.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0096par0388	Do not let the AKP try to cover up all the consequences of this war in civilian settlements, along with all these mass killings so far. These are clearly crimes against humanity. We will continue to pursue these war crimes against humanity both inside and in international criminal courts.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0099par0389	From the beginning, pay a price for your support for terrorism. It's not that easy.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0100par0390	Our citizens in the East don't feel the same way you do, they support the AK PARTY. They condemn terrorism, they stand in the face of terror.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0096par0391	Don't let the security forces in the area that committed this crime get too comfortable. They'll never get away with it, with the immunity laws, with the armor that the AKP has brought to them or planned to bring to them, they'll answer for every civilian they've killed one by one. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0101par0393	Well, it's on the record, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0102par0394	Everyone who's been killed is accounted for by those who killed them, and they keep giving them away.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0103par0395	You will pay for your support for terrorism. You'll have to answer from the top.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0102par0396	They will. They do, those killers do.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0104par0397	You'll pay for all of them, all of them. Don't worry, you'll give it all away.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0105par0398	And you will answer, and it will be near.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0106par0399	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0107par0400	Congressmans, we'll listen to Mr. Sky. Mr. Erdogan, I'll promise you later. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0108par0403	Mr. President, I'll give my right to speak to Mr. Idris from now on. Mr. Idris has taken over the power to speak even though we are in power. Congratulations!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0109par0404	What's that got to do with anything? We're the President of the Group. Mr. Nurettin of the Civil Charter, we exercise our right from the Civil Code. Are we going to do politics for you?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0108par0405	You talk all the time. And I'm giving you my right.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0110par0406	You have the right not to run the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0111par0407	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0112par0410	Mr. President, the opinion of the AKP administration has begun to be a constant opinion, not only that it is a continuum, but a constant change of opinion. After Can Dündar and Erdem Gül were arrested, the Prime Minister's trial without arrest was fundamental. On the day that Can Dündar and Erdem Gül were released, we met the AKP group's MPs. On the other hand, we looked at the AKP people who had changed their views when the President had changed his mind. Now, of course, we need to get out of the president's sense of guardianship and out of his understanding of Turkey's agenda. We're in a place where we need to talk about the public's facts, the public's budget. But, in fact, if the President could get himself thirsty, if he could pull himself together, this country would overcome a lot of problems by arguing within the House, but in a hurry to make a statement about everything, while the President was in a hurry to set his own agenda, we found out that he was getting involved in Guinea. Now, speaking in President Guinea -- with the president is the President of Guinea, and there are citizens, the press -- says it would be helpful to change the association of the President of the Republic of Guinea -- in connection with the Presidential Palace in Guinea. This is not the place of Guinea. We have to deal with this too. There is no word in the history of the world that a president has hurt a foreign president like this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I continue?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0113par0414	Of course, Mr. Sky, wrap it up, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0112par0416	Now, you go to a house, you're a guest, the landlord offers you tea, offers you cake, and you go back to the landlord and say, "I don't like your stuff, I don't like your house." Now, is that understanding acceptable, Mr. President? Now, this statement, which he said as President, also connects Turkey. Now, look at Turkey's lack of reputation in the world, the surprise the President of Guinea faces in injury. What's he gonna say, what's he gonna say? I mean, this office doesn't suit you, you need to do better. You know, maybe the AKP people can adopt those words, but as the Republican People's Party, we see them as very problematic in terms of foreign policy. And we've gotten used to the president's troubled remarks in the country, so at least when he's abroad, we don't want it to cloud Turkey's reputation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0114par0419	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0115par0420	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0114par0421	Mr. Erdogan, what is your request?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0115par0422	Now, Mr. Bostanci, you accuse us of treason upon the speech of Haberal. " he said. We've asked for the transcripts, but it's not in the speech text yet. Also, I'd like to express in a few words the position of our party about this if you'll turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0114par0423	Okay, I'll open it, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0115par0425	Mr. Bostanci has just responded to his speech and expressed that there is a process going on until the June 7th elections, a process of resolution. Now, after June 7th, he always shows up with July. During the solution process, was the PKK allowed to store weapons or not? Has the militant been allowed to harvest or not? You're already explaining to me that operations aren't allowed. So in what words will we express the actions of the government, the government, in the process? I want Mr. Bostanci to answer that. After June 7th, we support the fight against terrorism as the National Movement Party, but we will not forget and not forget those who developed the environment that turned terror on before June 7th. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0114par0428	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Bostanci, I have made a promise to the members of the group who have requested a brief statement. They made a statement about something that was not on the agenda. As you know, the principle of commitment is valid in the General Assembly meetings. I also made a promise to the Speakers for the right to explain, as a result of mutual bullying. There were reciprocal conversations, corrections, and answers. The right of explanation was used mutually. Now we'll continue our talks on the agenda where we left off. Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0116par0431	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement for him to go on the record. Our agenda is the main agenda of the House today. First of all, the immunity of lawmakers, the litigation...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0117par0433	We're discussing the budget, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0116par0434	...we have taken a pledge to determine a matter in which the president does not have a mandate. Second of all, we're talking about the national Defense Department budget for curfews and cities that have been destroyed.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0117par0435	Mr. Baluken, we're discussing the budget.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0116par0436	So the agenda that we've run is the main agenda of this Parliament. For the record.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0118par0437	Thank you, Mr. Baluken, it's on the record. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2014 CIRCLE AND VICTIMAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND DETECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account Members of parliament, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second address is from Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Ayhan, your time is 18 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0119par0477	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, I have been promised to present the views of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, and I hereby salute the grand delegation. Now we're talking about the Department of Industry's budget and a certain amount of money. During budget talks, there is generally an opinion on the issues and activities involved, but budget figures are forgotten. Well, I'm a little bit of an acquish, and since I'm interested in these things, I thought we'd take a little look at this side of the business. Now, Minister, this is the budget bill of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology of 2016. 2014 is under the start-up grant. 2015 spending is over 27 per cent of the 2014 budget. The 2016 budget offer is 28 per cent higher than 2015 spending. The 2016 budget offer is 50 per cent higher than the 2015 initial grant. This is the Ministry of Industry budget. It's up to you. It's in here, and we'll go into detail. The 2014 spending is 29 percent above the initial grant. The 2015 start-up grant is 10 percent less than 2014. 2015 spending is 53 percent above 2015 start-up grant. The start-up grant of 2016 is 17 percent less than 2015. Here's to the Institute of Standards. That one. 2014 is 42 percent above the start-up grant. The 2015 start-up grant is 22 percent less than 2014. 2015 spending is 76% above 2015 start-up grant. The 2016 budget offer is 34 per cent less than 2015. There's more, as far as COSGEB is concerned, the start-up grant of 2016 is over 118 per cent of the 2015 initial grant and over 96 per cent of the 2015 spending. Here's the thing. I brought the camera to show the details. Mr. Secretary, do you call these budgets if you love your God? There's no way these numbers are going public. I'd really have a hard time. Is that even possible? Come on, after the December 2014 incident, it didn't balance out, so after that? Oh, it's not your fault either. After such a medium-term program, after three months of change, how are you going to balance that? Come on, it's 5 percent recording, 10 recordings, et cetera. What if one hundred percent notices that you love God? Either there's going to be a terrible incident in your sector, or there's going to be a war or there's going to be a war, or there's going to be a crazy thing. We call it that, Mr. Secretary. I'm so sorry, but I have to tell you. What are we going to talk about if we don't talk about this? In the evening, in the morning, God proved us right. What is the PKK doing, and what happened with the AKP? It's in the square, people see it. Now, no accounts, no books. There is. It's not serious, Mr. Secretary. That's not gonna happen. Now, you're a strong person with feelings, but you manage things with feelings. That's what you said to the Tapes and all that, but let's move on. It's the budget, it's the numeral. If I go into detail, it's gonna be more of a thing. But I know, the guys in the back who made it, they're glad I'm talking about it. I know that for a fact. That's when I came in. Now, Mr. Secretary, as a result of your policies, 2023 targets have been compromised, dead. Two shirts were too big for the AKP. For the sake of the state's seriousness, either revisit these goals or stop using them in official documents. I told you. As a matter of fact, we're getting signs of a change from other fellow ministers. And we don't think you're going to try and fix it without going into Plan and Budget. Now, 13 years under AKP administration has been the process of industrialisation in Turkey. You've cut off the branch you've been riding in 13 years, Mr. Secretary. The most distinctive feature of the globalization wave is the phenomenon of financial capital becoming increasingly independent of productive capital, rising on its own rationality. In fact, globalisation and industrialisation go together in economies that are not protected from the extreme effects of globalization. The AKP is caught up in this movement. At the direction of global capital, we can see that in thirteen years, capital buildup distances itself from fixed investments in industry. You've encouraged him to move on to more inefficient, fluid, warmer and shorter-term investment sites. What did you do at the point in which the local industry and the manufacturing industry had a national income? You've begun to melt. Now, sectors such as foreign capital and secondary capital dominated the economy, where construction, energy, retail distribution, finance, media, tourism investment, services and sectors such as this have dominated the economy. Their share and their profitability in the household increased, as well as their mutual capital. Now, when we call it that, maybe you do it, but this is it. The effects of the global crisis have been felt deeper in the Turkish economy and especially in the manufacturing industry. After 2011, there are low levels of growth and limited production in the industry, in parallel with the overall economy. AKP governments have seen these developments. You've dealt with the car, we've expressed our appreciation. That's right, that's wrong, you're trying to pursue something. We say that, we don't deny it, but you need to know what you're doing. With this budget, it's not gonna work. In recent years, manufacturing industry growth is, like, 23%, very limited. In the same way, industrial production has slowed down. 2.4 per cent in 2011; 3.5 per cent in 2013 and 2014; 3.1 per cent in 2015. In 2015, the production of textile products, production of the main metal industry, production of the machine manufacturing industry has decreased. In the past period, the structure of the main sectors in Turkey's economy has been examined, and the industry's share has fallen, including the production industry's weight. In 2002, there was 17.6 per cent of the manufacturing industry within the domestic product, and in 2014, it fell to 15.8 per cent, Mr. Secretary. You're doing strategy, that's over 20. That's not gonna happen. Last time I told you, you tried to get away from him with something else. There are experts among you, please ask. Now, in the third quarter of 2015, the production industry's share in national income is 14 percent. There is no significant improvement in the technological structure of the manufacturing industry, on the contrary, in exports of the manufacturing industry, the share of high-tech products was 6.2% in 2002; 3.7% in 2015. When you remove the effects of the season, the capacity usage rate -- when you take into account the slowness in production -- is 75.4% in 2015; this is the level of 2011. Already 93.4% of exports are in the manufacturing industry. Look, exports in January have been reduced by 22 per cent, food products, textile products, clothing industry exports, chemical industry exports, machine manufacturing exports, exports of the automotive sector, all of them have fallen. Mr. Secretary, lawmakers, the most important problems in Turkish industry are production and export dependency and low-tech intensity. Unfortunately, the 13-year AKP government has produced only word, paper action plans and strategies in these areas, has made public, has made no meaningful progress. During the AKP period, there is no meaningful step towards reducing industry's external dependency, domestic input production, the production of high-investigation value products, increasing RD human resource capacity, the emergence and development of technology and innovative companies, developing university-investigation, institutionalisation, RD and innovation ecosystems, there seems to be no result. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as it is known by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, in 2011-2014, you prepared a Turkish Industrial Strategy Document, and we talked to you about the future. In one, we will increase the production and export share of the medium and high-tech sectors. You say, "Otherwise, it's high-end domestic production based on knowledge and technology." What about employment? It's not always a double digit, it doesn't fall under. The manufacturing industry has its share in national revenues, and in manufacturing exports, high-tech products have their share. We're down from six to three and a half percent, and the lowest in OECD countries is 15 percent, while the lowest is 25 to 27. Now, you're saying the RD Law, we've supported the RD Act. Mr. Secretary, it's wrong to view RD policies as just supply-directional funding presentations. A significant achievement in the field of RD depends on the co-motivation of investment, foreign trade and industrial policies. Now, look, he had a degree problem, but I'm not going to say it for him, it's about TUBITAK, why don't you turn it off? Your NGOs, professors, professors, writing, I don't know if you're following. Now, look, when we evaluate the fourth quarter industrial data published by TÜİK (TİK), the production industry's increase in production in the last four years has been 13.9; employment growth has been 12.8. Efficiency per employee is low. Hence, this will cause trouble in the coming period. The increase in minimum wage should have been paid primarily with an increase in efficiency. Otherwise, the competitive erosion of Turkish industry is inevitable. Mr. Secretary, I hope you're talking about this in the Cabinet. Wait, I've already looked at the Finance Minister today trying to explain to the public how they're going to make up for the decline in the wages of single minimum wage holders without disrupting the tax system. This is the result of your unaccounted-for work. We called him Net 1,400. We explained that there was no tax. Look, in Denizli, the former minister of economics was saying, "These men are going bankrupt in front of the workers to the bosses." The guy knew the truth, everybody started getting bankruptcy delays, everybody started getting bankruptcy delays. So, there's trouble there. In Izmir, unemployment is 14 per cent. Everything's slipping into the residence. What are you doing in the industrial area? You buy it, you take it off, you build it. This desire, let us support industry. Now, by adding something to the last row, you're going to build. The factory builder builds it. Stay out of it. Give me the money if you want to, but you enjoy building. The absence of unnecessary assets... has already reached 50 percent construction. Give him his land, give him what you're going to spend, and he'll do it. What's the Ministry doing with all this? [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Now, savings are over, the free market economy is back into the economy of free intervention. The TOBB, TESK; you used it on the PKK; you didn't use it on your members' work. I've expressed from this bench before, that you used their hearts to soften them against the PKK. Fill up those wise men, the industrialists, and take them to the Southeast to see what you've become, how you've been neglected. Let them see what you've become. We're not glad we were right here. The country's a disgrace. Is that possible in your administration? The Deputy Prime Minister says the interest won't fall. And from above, the President is pushing down -- he came down from above, but -- how do we get the interest down? Come on, put it down. The Deputy Prime Minister says I can't pull it under 16 percent. As we speak in TÜSİAD, the Deputy Prime Minister says: "You are investing out, we know it, but we can't prevent it, we must prevent it. If I have too much, I lack a word or two. See if the minimum wage increase is good or bad. Cevdet Yilmaz says that he will speed up growth. The Zeybekist says: "Batars, they sink." I don't know which one. What do you think? Now, for example, our friend Ziya Bey, the Commissioner, says, "There's going to be a jump in production with the package of AR-GE." You know what the paper says on the side column of the same thing? That's how much we've been able to collect the foreign trade. I mean, you have to take a serious look at them, what you're saying is a public echo, what it's not. Look, private investments are 7 per thousand in 2014 -- no -- in 2015, 4, 2016 -- you're running 7.6 per cent. How's that? I mean, is there something extraordinary that you're going to do? Sources are clear. The medium-term program surprised you and turned you into a cross-eyed person. The manufacturing industry is the same. In 2014, you say 1, 2015, 4.4, and it's not clear how it happened; you say 8 in 2016. Hopefully, we'll be embarrassed. We're ashamed of what's good in the country, we have nothing to do with it, we don't mean anything by it. Now, every $100 direct investment brings out $22, a profit transfer; in 2013, that's $39, so if this guy brings in $100, he gets $39 and goes. There's no place in the world like this. That's not what I'm saying. Now, in one area, the industry is out of business, the others are going bankrupt, but there's no training in the southeast. I explained it last time, so I don't want to say it around here. Now, direct investments from abroad don't go to the manufacturing industry either. 72% of the incentives go to low techs, export troops, regional presidents, that sort of thing. Loud and clear. But all this is a problem. These budgets I've shown, Mr. Secretary, this is the budget of one institution, this is the budget of another, this is the budget of TÜBITAK, and this is yours. That won't save you. Especially here, if I had time to read it. Look, it's yours. The height of credit costs, the informal economy, imports from low prices, unfair competition, the excess of bureaucracy... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the price of certain entries provided by the community is higher than international prices, the height of tax rates; these are the destructions given to industry, in your era, in programs signed by the ministers. I'm out of time. I wish you well in the budget. I give my respects to the High Council on behalf of my group. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0120par0512	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0121par0513	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0120par0515	Mr. President, I've received the reports and I'd like to answer them, sir. Mr. Naci Bostancı Beyin - the deputy president of the group - I want to give you an answer to the fact that I have accused the government of treason against me.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0121par0517	Okay, here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Let's give you our word for two minutes, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0120par0522	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in fact, Mr. Naci Bostancı, when he said that I accused the government of treason, I couldn't really respond at once, wondering if I was thrilled to make such a statement between my speech. But in style and style, I waited for the report myself because I was never in such a manner, and I specifically wanted to compare it. If you'll excuse me, the government has protected the process of solution and is content to put it in the fridge, unfortunately it can't unplug and leave it to rot. It still seems to rely on the process of treason. Plus, I told the solution process the process of betrayal. As a reference to myself, I took the Dolmabahçe as a reference to myself, and I took Mr. President as a reference, Mr. Davutoglu as a reference, and he stored weapons in the process of resolving the PKKK. I took what Mr. Prime Minister said, and he did it for two years. I took what he said, and I found out that the solution process was a betrayal process, and I used it with us. If I had told the government directly about this speech -- it is a virtue to apologize -- I would apologize, of course -- from the deputy leader of the group, but I believe Mr. Bostanci owes me an apology. Thank you, sir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2014 CIRCLE AND VICTIMAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND DETECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0122par0562	Members of parliament, the third speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party Group is Mr. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Ahrazoglu, your time is thirteen minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0123par0565	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budgets for the Central Management Budget Act of 2016, the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Enterprises of the Central Management Act, the Chairman of the Institute of the Turkish Standards and the President of the Turkish Patent Institute. I hereby salute your delegation and our beloved nation who are watching us on their television. The budget is described as a law or decision that determines the rates and quantity of revenues and costs during a specified period and allows these proceedings to be carried out in advance. This law or decision is defined as a form of authority for the executive body of the legislature. At the same time, the budget means creating financial value in matters such as government investments for the country's administration, raising public welfare share, security, education, and health, and sharing in those services. There's a very good expression in our language: extend your foot according to your comforter. We may recall that when we budget this expression, it refers to the equivalent budget. However, over the course of 14 years, we've grown too tall to fit in the covers or the quilt has shrunk to size or size. While AKP's budgets naturally grow with numerical values, this growth does not really reflect on the public, this budget seems small to the public. I mean, the public's share of the budget is getting less and less. At the end of the 14-year term, they're paid, they're all miserable for free. The farmer is miserable; he takes his mother, and lies in the field, and lies in the wilderness; and he covers her with dust, so as not to enter into his dreams of diesel, fertilizer, seed, medicine, irrigation. The shopkeeper is miserable; he closes his doors; he goes to his poor home; he cannot pay his check, or his bill. The officer is miserable; he can't make the end of the month; he runs to banks in ten days to finish the 30-day month. Retired is miserable; he's trying to move on if he gets a second, third job. His employer is miserable; he's afraid of being eliminated. The worker is miserable; he spends three meals on a tea bagel, and when he goes home, he can't face his children. Now, let's do a cup of tea bagels in our political literature. If you calculate that a family of five spent the morning, noon, evening, a bagel, a cup of tea, 30 lira a day, 900 lira a month, that leaves 400 lira. Should he rent a house for $400, pay for his kids, pay for the kitchen, pay for the electricity, pay for the water? Why would he do that? How would he raise an equal budget? There's no sugar, no salt, not to mention no egg, no pasta, not to mention the luxury, not to mention no oil here, no margaritas or liquid oil. Our nation, living below the age of hunger, is fatalistic, thankful, and some say it's in its physique. For that reason, your budget has been far too far from a fair budget, and every share of the above has been reduced by 14 years. People are miserable, you draw a pink picture and say the people are prosperous, but the facts aren't. But you're right, there's a not-so-desperate cut, and they're from the mujahideen to the contractors, the supporters, the rezidents, the people who get more out of the budget than they want. I think the public should be here for you. Now, the AKP may say that we have won elections 11 times, we have received 49.5 per cent of the vote. As with you, every time you are in distress, we are deceived and deceived. If you say so, you have come to these days by deceiving and deceiving people. You came to power with 3Y: corruption, poverty, bans. But you poured the egg into the flour, put on the shiplets, made the budget deficit into Sarraf, accessorizing the shoe boxes, the steel money safes, the lockers, the money counting machines, the paper grinder. It's not over yet, you, the conspiracy to tape the members of the political party; the plot to assassinate the cosmic room; the military who sidelined, bombed the mosque; the police, the judge, the prosecutor; the journalist, the terrorist; the journalists; the TVs, the newspapers; or the newspapers; and then you turned them off, and then we were deceived, you said. You've done your duty to yourselves in corruption and judgment, and to the people in poverty. An unfair, unstable, numbered budget doesn't suit our country. For him and for the institutions, their situation is similar to the AKP's budget. Mr. President, I'd like to continue my speech through the KOSGEB budget. COSGEB was founded to increase the share and efficiency of small and medium-sized businesses, to boost competitiveness and levels, to carry out industrial integration in line with developments. KOSGEB, which is the driving force of our country's industry, is important for us to industrialize because of its contribution to the work, development, innovation, RD, and the work that has played a major role in helping the country contribute and create added value. Dear lawmakers, KOSGEB, an important organisation for the SMEs, has, unfortunately, become an institution known for corruption and irregularity during the AKP administrations. It's possible to say that the institution was run by people without a license and a lack of integrity, that the buddy sergeant relationship entered and settled in the institution. Frauds who identify themselves as a consulting company have disappeared by guaranteeing support for entrepreneurs who want to benefit from the grants and loans of KOSGEB. They've been unfairly profiting by selling these ideas to other companies. So something's wrong with COSGEB. Some firms are protected, and any support is being used illegally. When the Court's reports are examined, KOSGEB and TÜBITAK provide RD support to the KOBI. Reports show that several companies have been paid in reciprocal payments given by KOSGEB and TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK) of the same ministry. Which of these companies are they? What's the financial size of repeated payments? Shouldn't public resources be used in accordance with the legal arrangement, guaranteed? Shouldn't the incompatible side be disabled from the COSGEB database immediately? In some cases, it is possible to see that these procedures are being performed when they are not supposed to be supported. It's not me, it's the Court's reports. Although there are other negatives in the Court's reports, I can't speak of them because of the lack of time. So, is that what the problem with COSGEB ends with? Of course, it doesn't. 347 of the 1,030 personnel working at KOSGEB are employed by the method of receiving qualified personnel. These personnel are assigned to primary and permanent tasks. In addition, it is not an application for personnel to be classified, such as Engagement Reports in the COSGEB and to be dismissed one by one by one, by bureaucrats with negative views. This practice makes you wonder what a grudge it is, what an hostility it is. As the National Movement Party, we expect the KOSGEB to transform and adapt to change and development, an entrepreneurial capacity, international competitiveness, and adopt the understanding of institutional governance into the fundamental dynamic of the Turkish economy. Mr. President, I'd like to say something about the Turkish Institute of Standards in this part of my speech. The Turkish Institute of Standards, called the reputation of our 9th President, the late Süleyman Demirel, has been tried to discredit the AKP authorities, but has not lost anything from the institution's previous achievements. During the AKP period, under pressure from international similar organisations, the institution's functions were tried to reduce, changes to its law and the chance to compete, including the Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018. Many foreign companies took advantage of the loopholes in the legislation and started documenting systems with high prices, and no control system for them has been desiccated by TÜRKAK. Equal pay-per-view has made differences between staff members, who don't know the institution, who have no technical qualifications, who are brought in from the outside, and who have left the wrong staff institution passive. The company's staff's salaries have been cut, and the raises can't afford their cuts, but they have suffered losses in retirement situations, but those in upper management and supporters have not been affected. As a result, internal peace among the staff has broken down, unjust authorities and appointments and titles have led to the loss of institutional reputation, as well as the financial loss of staff, and different fees. As a result, qualified staff had to go to other institutions. This situation must be resolved immediately. It's also a TSE documentation agency. A prioritisation of public institutions and institutions' documentation will also satisfy a lack of employment security by institutions as an independent organisation. Madam Secretary, I have to tell you something. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Automotive Test Center, yes, this project is an important project for TSE and for our country. As an engineer working for 28 years at TSE, I congratulate you on this project, but we also wish the project to be finished as soon as possible. However, we expect to be judged by the mistakes made on the property of this test center, the damage done to the institution, and the perpetrators. Mr. President, if I may say the final words on the Patent Institute.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0124par0592	Mr. Ahrazoglu, you know you're normally out of time. If I give you time, I'll have given you the right to the other speaker, but I'll only give you one minute to complete your commitments. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0123par0594	In the final part of my speech, I'd like to mention the Turkish Patent Institute institution. As of today, when we look at the Turkish Patent Institute, we also see the pain of patent applications and registrations as a result of RD activities. In 2014, 4,861 local patent applications were registered. In the same year, 7,514 foreign patents were applied for, 7.279 have been registered. Then we're not clear on the patent. As the National Movement Party, I expect the fictitious property rights system to be activated in order to protect the national innovation system, patent, commercial brand, industrial design and copyright, and I wish the budget to be good for our country and our nation, and I salute the High Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0125par0598	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0126par0599	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0125par0600	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the fourth speaker...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0126par0601	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0125par0602	Excuse me, Mr. Incescuz, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0126par0603	He's just made accusations in his speech that we've been doing our own work in corruption and justice since the day we came to power, we've been following massacres, segregating policies in society. He must have spoken to our group in an appropriate manner. I want to make a statement. I demand word according to sarcasm, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0125par0604	All right, Mr. Incescuz, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0126par0608	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers have just made some identification in their speech. First of all, I want to point out that from the beginning of this period, we've had intensively in Parliament, here, especially some orators, on this platform, using words to express terminology, such as cataclysms, warfare, and every time these words are used, we've always had the words to come and say it. First of all, when these words are mentioned in our country and in these Parliaments, at one time, we have said that this is not a massacre, that this is not a war, that our country is fighting legitimate and legal terrorism, and we will continue to say that every time these words are spoken here. There is an area in which the Republic of Turkey has been fighting for 35 years -- economics, social, political areas -- in all areas -- to implement all dynamics; this is a legitimate, legitimate, legal, and political environment, and I want to correct it first. However, we, together with our power, which is 13 years -- in the 14th year -- from the day we first went out, said that we would not be deceived or deceived.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0127par0611	We've always been deceived, you say.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0126par0612	And we specifically stated not to use a separative language, and we considered all our differences to be wealth. I would like to point out, of course, that while this righteous struggle is going on today, someone's segregating language... and if someone tries to divide this country, we always have something to say about it. We will continue this on our nation's stand and on every platform. We will stand against all division, all our differences against division as riches... and within our will to live together. Corruption, judgment, etcetera, how much we struggle with these things...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0128par0615	Yeah, yeah, you've been trying so hard to cover it up.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0126par0616	...today in our country, a number of plays, a series of scenarios under the guise of other coveres, but the purpose of these scenarios is... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and that it's one, and that it's meant to divide the country...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0128par0619	You've worked so hard to cover it up.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0126par0620	...and we'll always speak up against it, so I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0129par0622	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0130par0623	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0131par0624	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0129par0625	Mr. Erdogan, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0130par0626	Mr. President, the speaker twisted the words of our spokesman. We want the right to answer that.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0132par0627	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It was clear and clear.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0129par0628	Mr. Ahrazoglu will speak?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0130par0629	Yes, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0129par0630	Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu. And I promise you two minutes. Mr. Beştaş, I'll listen to you later.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0133par0634	Mr. President, I stand by my words.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0134par0635	Mr. Gardener was trying to take the party parallel. What do you say?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0135par0636	Sit in the back.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0134par0637	What are you going to tell him?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0136par0638	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0135par0639	There's people out front listening. Don't mess with me, don't mess with me, just sit in the back.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0134par0640	But Mr. Gardenie said that.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0137par0641	Mr. Ahrazoglu is on the stand, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0138par0642	In your thirteen years, 14 years of power -- the AKP's power -- in every election period, you said that we would take care of it from the first time you came. Corruption, poverty, and what was it?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0139par0643	Prohibitions.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0138par0644	Yes, they are. Didn't we or didn't we? Because the journalist wrote an article, because of a cartoon, you're saying that you filed 1,800 lawsuits today when the budget was being discussed. I thought the bans were off. Did you not or did you not charge the judge you brought in on your own mission while applauding the police? Where are the judges you brought in now? For him, I stand by all the words I say. You said, "We'll deal with poverty, we'll lift it." You distribute the coal, you distribute the pasta, it's true, you distribute it as if it were from your father's purse, you do it from the state budget. However, before June 7th, you went to the National Movement Party and other parties to complain to the employers, which told you it was $1,400. And then you found out he's making a bonus, so you made $1,300. Today, you've explained the hunger limit by hand, over $1,438, and used the tea bagel in every election.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0140par0646	You've got people in need of tea, bagels.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0138par0647	And when you did the tea bagel count today, unfortunately, you couldn't account for it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I haven't told you yet about the power increase, the increase in coal, the money you got from your tuition. For that, I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0141par0651	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0142par0652	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0141par0653	Mr. Inuöz, Mr. Beştaş asked for a word earlier. Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0143par0655	I would like to speak on behalf of our group, so I would like to briefly express our approach to the process of solving these particular massacres and war policy.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0141par0656	Your position?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0143par0657	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0141par0658	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0143par0661	Mr. President, we've said it over and over the microphone, but we want to say it once again today that it's not really possible to explain to our people the approaches that condemn this process, given that the process of solutions, at least when the process of solving people's deaths has been halted, even a partial peace environment, and the environment of discussion. Especially in today's environment, where we get dozens of reports of deaths every day, where dozens of funerals go to different cities of Turkey, which have now exceeded the process of resolution and talks -- we now reject as the People's Democratic Party -- and I want to make it clear once again that this is the only way for democratic politics, speech, and actual deaths to stop. Finally, Mr. Incesik said in his speech: "Let's not call it "Katliam and war." What shall we say? Prohibitions over 90 to five days... Experts at the Forensic Medicine Association that went to Cizre today found bone fragments of the children, under the buildings that collapsed in the constructions are the limbs of citizens. 167 people died under the rubble in those basements of brutality. What can we say if we don't call it a war or a massacre? You have to express reality in the middle. Let's not fool ourselves, let's not deceive the people. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0144par0664	Thank you, Mr. State. Mr. Incescuz, here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0145par0667	Mr. President, let me start at the end. It's very clear what to call it, so it's called a fight against terrorism. No matter what country it is in, whether it is in the developed country of the world, this struggle is carried on. There's war, carnage, the basements of violence, the death of children, of course, children, not killing civilians, and if there's a word to be said at this point, you have to go back and tell the PKK terrorist organization and its derivatives, first of all, it's one. Here, especially in this process, we have to remember how we got here. Look, the acts of terror that started in our country on July 20th -- plus, systematically -- were shot in the back of the neck while two of our police officers were sleeping in their homes... if there was a massacre, we'd have to start here. Again, if there is a threat to our citizens' lives, it is a threat to the PKK's terrorist organization. If there is a threat by digging holes, by laying bombs underground, it is also a threat to the PKK terrorist organization. What the state of the Republic of Turkey, the government has done, is to protect its citizens here, and do whatever legal and legitimate measures are necessary to ensure that life here is in its usual course. It's not called a massacre, it's not called a war, because we're talking about a terrorist organization, and we're talking about a fight with a terrorist organization. Here, we need to name this right. So we'll continue to reject these words, just as we rejected them before. The state of the Republic of Turkey, the government, will, of course, continue its righteous struggle, right and self-defense until terrorists in Turkey remove their weapons, until armed elements leave this country until the end. Today, I would also like to say that if these threats, the work we've been doing on the fight against terrorism, had been in Europe, in any country of Europe, what measures would it take, and that should not be ignored. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish my vows.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0146par0673	All right, Mr. Inecubine, we'll turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0145par0674	For him in this righteous fight against Turkey, it is also unfair for internationally, like a war criminal, to have his own parliamentarians, citizens of his own country, to carry him to the international arena, to say, and to complain. Again, we're on the same line at the point of developing rights and freedoms -- until the end -- where we were 14 years ago. But it's not acceptable for anyone to commit crimes, espionage, treason, and to commit crimes in the name of the profession of newspapering, so being a journalist doesn't allow anyone to commit crimes in this way. That's the way it's supposed to be known. As I just said on the stand, democracy has been interrupted every ten years -- if we look at the tradition of the past -- by coups, by tokens. Yes, this could have been done yesterday under military custody, which may have been done on a warrant, but we've testified that it was done on trial in the past tense. In an environment where we're dealing with a parallel gang today, not only with a terrorist organization, but with a parallel gang, to close one side of our eyes, to ignore these facts, and yet -- I can't find any other expression -- I mean, really, to be defending it rather than just participating in that crime. Yeah, pasta, coal distribution, social politics... In the Constitution, it was always within the 82 Constitution to be a social state, and anyone could apply it. If these are being done, these are the principles of being a social state, I specifically state them. The implementation of social policies, that's not how... Now, far from this line, I think we should do politics on the facts of Turkey and the world. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0147par0679	Well, thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0148par0680	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0147par0681	Mr. Dans, Mr. Sky has entered the system, so I'll make a promise in order. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0149par0684	Mr. President, the problem with Turkey is that every day that we live in the east and southeast, we still have martyrs, and many innocent people have lost their lives, the problem has to be solved, and no one can ignore this problem. The task for politicians is to resolve this problem by looking out for all Turkey's sensitivities. In many parts of the world, there have been very serious conditions of conflict, similar to the problem in Turkey, and leaders in other countries have worked hard to inform opposition parties, society, and to resolve this problem in legitimate environments. For example, the IRA problem in England was solved in South Africa, after such a period when Mandela was re-elected from prison. Now, a party that's trying to solve a problem like this will first be sincere, realistic, and will not engage in any engagements it can't enter. Such a huge problem -- which I'm talking about the Kurdish problem in our country -- is not enough to be solved with a solution that one day a political party will evolve to this side based on its own personal, political conjunctive, that tomorrow it will evolve to the other side, so it will be beyond the size of a political party, and it will not be a problem to be used for the personal economy of a political party, nor will it be a problem to be returned to. When such a process began, the process of solutions began, and the tears of the mothers stopped. There must be something the ruling party, such as the ambitious word, will say to the public these days.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0147par0687	Mr. Sky, I'm giving you an extension to complete.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0149par0688	If you've started a process and your mothers' tears have stopped, you'll have to continue that process somehow, or you'll have to come to the House and share it with all the parties. Now, it's a very unfair approach for the ruling party to declare themselves innocent by avoiding both the terrorist environment and the beginning of the solution process, as if they weren't the owners of all the negatives. These non-conflict environments are like riding a bicycle, Mr. President. When you ride a bike, you have to pedal so the bike doesn't fall. AKP rulings, and especially the current President, the Prime Minister, have overturned this bicycle many times, but it's not just the bicycle that's fallen, it's the balances of all Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0150par0691	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Danış and Mr. Erdogan I will make a promise on behalf of the groups. Mr. State, please.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0151par0695	Mr. President, there's actually a direct taunt in the words of Mr. Inceöz. He has made it clear to us that the parliamentary accusations and complaints of our country are unacceptable and that no one has the privilege of committing crimes... he has given us a particular example from journalists. I agree with him that absolutely no one has the freedom to commit a crime. That's right, if we're a state of law, if we're a constitution, everyone has an obligation to abide by it, including the violation of the Constitution, which is defined as a crime in the laws of all citizens, regardless of any distinction. In this regard, neither the government nor the ministers have the freedom of the Prime Minister or the President to commit crimes, nor are they exempt from punishment. It is not only for those who speak against power that there is no freedom to commit crime. It means that everyone is equal in front of the law. I would also like to express that the background of the campaign against journalists is freedom of thought and expression. The other thing is a matter of slaughter and war. Mr. President, dear friends, according to the International Criminal Court of Rome Status, what is happening now in Kurdish provinces is strictly against the contract. Right now, Turkey is not on the side, it's true, but it doesn't eliminate the prosecution's resen investigation mission. There are exceptions to that. We are not betraying our own country, Turkey, but defending the rights and freedoms of citizens of Turkey, citizens of Turkey, people of 79 million against the state. People are important in the state of law, citizens. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I collect my words?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0152par0700	Complete, Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0151par0701	And there's a new concept in literature, the state is in self-defense. I mean, there's also a need to discuss it. It's the people who need to be protected here. It is the murder of civilians, and it is certainly not a complaint mechanism, but a crime by the state. If it's not war, what are the SAS commandos doing in Cizre? Is there a sea in there? Almost half the population of soldiers, special operations teams have been sent to Cizre, with a population of 110,000 people, where they are located by half the population. And finally, let me say this: Right, Jonathan Powell has a very famous insight into solving the IRA problem -- we've met him and we've had the opportunity to listen -- to never stop the bicycle pedal, but it's up to us to fulfill our responsibilities in order to really maintain continuity because really mothers are dying and suffering continues to grow. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0153par0704	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş. Mr. Erdogan, please. On behalf of your group, I give you my word.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0154par0708	Thank you, Mr. President. The ruling speakers have never been able to count to 36, but they have always endeavored to separate our society ethnically with the effort to count to 36. Yesterday, the ruling spokesman Ergenekon became prosecutors of the Sledgehammer cases, and today they are covering these cases with the names of,,,, kumpas. Yesterday, they called our army, our police, our political parties an operation today. At the 2010 referendum, they said, "We will correct it, not the way we want it." They said, "They have upset the judicial system. Today, I don't know the judiciary." They are undressing as the President's attorney. We have no objection to welfare, to the social government, but we object to the turning of government funds into a ruling party's election campaign. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0155par0712	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2014 CIRCLE AND VICTIMAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND DETECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account Members of parliament, it is now on behalf of the National Movement Party Group that Erzurum MP Kâmil Aydın is in the fourth place. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Aydın, your time is 12 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0156par0752	Mr. President, we are at your disposal to discuss TUBITAK and TUBA institutions on behalf of the National Movement Party. Before I speak, I felt the need to make a small statement on behalf of our group about a few events today. Now, for some reason, the separatists in this solution process are involved in an imposition of terminology like this. So we don't call it the solution process, we don't use a positive concept, we don't use a positive concept, as long as there's so many bills. So in 1991, when Bush had the intention to invade Iraq, when we were explaining it, he said, "We're going to free Iraq." He said, "This process continued -- to free Libya, to free Tunisia -- but in the apocalyptic consciences, this was not perceived as liberation, it was always perceived as dissolution, and we consider this process to be resolution. Why? Dear lawmakers, there are two ways in which you create a political expression, either you use deduction, or you act for reasons, or you talk about the outcome, or you go to causes. I'll use them both in a sentence. What was the result? It's always the post-July process that denies what was before you. I mean, there today, our children are fighting for their lives. Now, there's no more fires, that's the result. All right, let's move for reasons. What happened before July? I'm acting out of the notes that your bureaucrats, your official institutions, have fallen out of. Sir, there are piles. There are statements of the Chief of Staff. There have been tons of bombs coming in from our southern border, tons of bombs traveling all the way to Diyadin district of Ağrı. We don't have that kind of freedom to travel, but the bomb has freedom to travel, you have ammunition. Intelligence reports are coming in, law enforcement is offering to intervene. The offer of 290 is only 8 of them. It's called Yes. It's called 282, it's rejected. These are the reasons. I'm not saying that I'm saying that there's such a huge consequence, I'm saying that the nationalist movement party can't be persistent, forced to say it, because the blood of those who drink the testimony will drown us all. That's one. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] There's also a tradition in the parliamentary system. You know, the most radical of Western democracies is the British Parliament. There's a tradition in the British Parliament, and we try to put it to good use. On behalf of myself, I'm praising you all, and I've also come to this Parliament with the urge to learn something, and I'm trying to do it because one of the European education projects is to learn for life, because one of the training projects in Europe is called... That's what our culture says, thank God. We'll find out as long as we live. So sometimes I come in front and I sit down, and I say, "I'm really going to write something down from these conversations, and I'm going to find out." There's been something we've learned from each group, from each friend, that's why I sit in the front. It has a formal name in the British Parliament. They call the ones who sit in the front, the ones who sit in the front. Do you know what his function is? The esteemed group is next to and behind the deputy presidents: let me write down if there's something important in the day, I'll write something up, and I'll say something, and I'll be careful. They said, "Sir, I have nothing to do with the agenda right now, let me get in front of it, rather than cause trouble, I'll just applaud what's usually being done, if it's being applauded, sir, if it's going to be rejected. Now, I'm afraid it's going to be a little backwards with us. It's like something's going to be said from behind, or he's trying to provoke, protest in the front. I really think that's a little harsh on the people of our great House. Respected MPs, human beings are not just biological beings. It's also an emotional and spiritual entity, so we think and feel. There must be balance and harmony between these two qualities that make a man valuable because we dream and fiction and dream and imagine with our emotional or sense size. In our thinking and logic, we also try to question, research, and concreteize. In other words, we move to art, literature, emotion, heart, and socialization in one way; in the other way, we move what we dream and edit into concrete experimental and scientific work, inventions and technological innovations. Now, sir -- I'm a member of the National Defense Commission -- our last TUBITAK President has given us a really good briefing. In light of the information we've received from him, we've seen that our TUBIAK and TUBA, our two scientific institutions, sir, are building a bridge between industry and universities. So theoretically, thinkfully, sir, there's a middleman's role in transferring innovations to industry, that kind of function, that's what they're supposed to do, that's what they're supposed to do. So, in the theoretical or fictional process of the event, we have universities, and in the final stages, which is in the production or production stage, we have industry. TÜBITAK and TÜBA should be fully neutral and acting on universal criteria, in light of the fact that there are scientific research institutions that enable co-ordination. The most important power sources of powerful democratic structures are scientific and technological contributions to humanity. Without science, without research, countries are subject to darkness and governance. Thus, science and laboratory studies must be divided into huge resources. The nations without scientific autonomy and power, believe me, lose power autonomy and power very quickly. If I had the time, I'd talk a little bit about orientism, but in the past century, in fact, in the past century, nations that have neglected the scientific product, governments that have thought they would survive based solely on military and manpower, but let me tell you about a lady named Gertrude Bell, a scientist who's done the pre-conquest work of Iraq. You all know Lawrence. These were projects a hundred years ago. First, science is sent, researched, field study, prepared, and then it's time for action, and then it's time for a political man to do it. Sir, education, judgment, defense are the units that need to be apolitical. We need to include science in the same way, with the same sensitivity. So TÜBITAK and TUBA (TUBA) must also be brought to a sound, scientific, administrative, autonomous, powerful administrative structure. Now, we see here, sir, some changes have been made. TÜBA is established in 1993, there are appointments in 1994. When we looked at it today, both TÜBİTAK and TÜBA (TÜBA) entered a great speech contest to enter the reign of a political adult. In the new administrations that have been created, we're looking at -- or trying to control -- the structure consists of 150 members, but how do we suddenly take control? Let's intervene in the structure, let's increase it to 300, let's increase the way to politicize the choice without having scientists do it from within themselves in scientific criteria. You know they've done it in judgment. They tried to increase the number of all high judicial bodies, neutralize them, politicize them. We went through the same thing in TUBA. Of those who have been raised to 300, 100 shall be appointed by the government, and 100 shall be appointed by my lord, and the CEC, and the structure of the CEC, which is known to the people, and 100 shall be appointed by them in its own nature. Now, in a structure like this, then two things come up. Turkey has been through this, valued lawmakers, we have lived through the rule of this government. We all know about the scandals in TUBITAK over the last five years, don't we? The crime, Bucu, call it whatever you want, but as a result of a neglect of scientific criteria, sir, a process of politicisation of universal criteria, this has been the result of major scandals in our really eyeball institutions, and these scandals have moved to Europe, all over the world, and we've had a difficult time on behalf of our country. Now, in order to avoid that, you must not compromise the autonomy, the scientific autonomy of these institutions in particular. Look, we have a lot of big projects going on in our institutions, especially in terms of TBITAK. Sir, there are concerns, and there are concerns on the board of directors, which is why I'm telling you. What's all this? A series of projects that come up with billion-dollar numbers, millions of dollars. These projects give rise to appetite, so in a village where even the Mukhtar mansion is being tendered with minister's references, God forbid, does anyone want to be prodded to a research project with millions of figures? Of course, there's plenty. But we really need to keep that institution strong, where, in the light of all scientific and universal criteria, if it's supported and stood up behind it, we can win maybe 50 years in front of our country, a hundred years. Honourable MPs, a scientist is a man who knows, don't be afraid! Knower of one thing, Knower of himself, Knower of the world; Knower of nothing, Knower of himself, Knower of the world; this is also called ignorance, and dangerous. When we look at the historical process, if we have an advanced desire for democracy -- for example -- a political man is crowned in the direction of those who know -- but a political man who is led by those who don't -- God forbid -- can be manipulated at any moment, and it's very easy to control. There are so many examples of this. So, this is where we understand why my scholar's sleep is more important than his meeting. A man who knows can't be harmed, and we won't be afraid of what he knows. We will never fear the institution where those who know come together because they will not be harmed. Whatever criticism they make is healthy, like a polar star; they light up our way; but if ignorance befalls us, they call the she-camel a he-camel, and they call it a she-camel, and they call it a she-camel, and they call it a she-camel, and they call it a lawful thing, and they call it a lawful thing, and they call it a falsehood, and they call it a falsehood, and they call it a falsehood, and they call it a falsehood, and they call it a falsehood. But how do they fall into history? Whether they're kings or kings at the point where they come from, whether they're kings or leaders, they can't sit in their hearts like the Lord Ali, they can't form a throne. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They can't be like Abu Zarr el Gifari. I say that they have fallen into history with their wisdom, and they have lived from generation to generation by name, and I respect you all.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0157par0768	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Last speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, fifth speaker Balıkesir MP Mr. Ismail Ok. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Ok, your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0773	Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the budget of the Ministry of Food Agriculture and Animalism. First of all, as I begin my words, I greet all of our representatives, who gather under the moon star flag, and can say to the Istrillal Anthem, my anthem. First of all, even though he's one of the cabinet's most senior ministers, I wish Mr. Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture success, I sincerely wish him success, because the success of the Ministry of Agriculture means the well-being and happiness of the Turkish peasant and farmer. But unfortunately, our country has had its most troubled, depressing, darkest days since the establishment of the Republic of Turkey. Not a day goes by that our soldiers, our police, our innocent people will not be martyred as a result of the treacherous PKK attacks. We have martyrs again today. On this occasion, I once again remember Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the state of the Republic of Turkey, and all of our martyrs with mercy and gratitude. Congressmans, I'm afraid we're going to discuss the country's economic picture under these circumstances, and especially the situation of the Turkish peasant, his farmer. I regret to inform you that the Turkish peasant and his farmer are having the most difficult time in their history. Even though I put it on this bench last week, unfortunately, the milk producers are in a great deal of trouble, they're on the verge of bankruptcy, especially because there are no necessary measures being taken. Yeah, why is this happening? Why is the Turkish peasant and his farmer in so much trouble? Because the 14-year-old AKP government's wrong practices have brought Turkish agriculture and animalism to an end. Especially raw milk producers, particularly my constituency, Balıkesir, are crying out in Turkey. Our villagers, so to speak, have surrounded the chimney and are now able to cut milk cows if no hand is extended. Although the National Milk Council set the price of raw milk liters in 2014 as 115 cents, unfortunately today, raw milk producers in many parts of our country, particularly the milk producers in our Balıkesir, cannot sell their milk for 75 cents. But the price of milk in the markets has gone up the opposite. So, how did we get here? In these cases, we have destroyed our rites. Our mera, which is about 15 million hectares, is now under 9 million hectares. So livestock has become addicted to eating, and in livestock, we have to import a very important portion of it, which increases the cost of milk production. Now, the AKP government has imported 75 trillion dollars to its Turkish village and its farmer, especially agriculture, livestock and food. On the other hand, it also encouraged about 85 trillion liras. But it seems that this situation with the Turkish peasant and the farmer and the dairy producers has not been of any benefit at all. Because these 75 trillion imports didn't go to the Turkish peasant, their opponents went to the farmers of other countries. However, if we'd given it to our villagers and farmers as support instead of 75 trillion liras of imports, we wouldn't have had a milk crisis and a meat crisis today. Today, our manufacturers can't sell their milk for 75 cents. And those who sell will not be able to get their wages for three or four months. In fact, most of the dairy companies are feed producers, so if you buy from us, we'll take your milk. They say, "Well, instead of paying, they force you to feed them for at least 70 percent of the milk they pour. Milk producers are desperate. Is it different with milk and meat like this? The situation is extremely severe in milk and meat. Besides, if milk has a crisis, meat has a crisis. As I have just said, the destruction of the mera, the construction, the Ranta, the AVM, the opening of the mera fields have decreased, and the farmer leaves his fields empty, especially because of the high cost of input, such as diesel; the farmer who does not plant his fields gets rid of the damage, and those who sow his fields are losing. So, what's the solution, what's the solution? At first, we promised the nationalist Movement Party that there would be no VAT from Mazot, fertilizer, and bait. At first, the AKP government, which accused it of delusionalism in the June 7th elections, removed VAT in food and fertilizer. That was a positive step. But you know what? Today, the bait is more expensive than in 2015 -- although the VAT has been removed. I can give them one by one, pen by pen, to any of my friends who want them here, but I don't want to choke them with numbers for good use of this time. So, who did this 8 percent discount go to? So, he went to the supporters of the AKP government, went to the lobbyists, went to the interest lobby. Every time they were on the stand, we destroyed lobbyists, interest lobbyists, and those who said, today, they imported Turkish farmers and peasants and destroyed them. Why? Those who had nothing to do with farming have imported Turkish peasants and farmers to the ground. For him, these practices must be abandoned immediately. Look, we said the fields and fields were destroyed. What happened? He became a mall; Turkey became a mall paradise, and supporters became rich. Yesterday, he calls me from the village of Belldir, Balıkesir, the peasant, the shepherd. Oh, and I also mean that I'm a peasant, and I'm a shepherd, and I'm a farmer. I'm proud of it, a farmer's family, a peasant's child, who wipes the sweat off his forehead in the heat of August, watering the land with sweat. But the AKP government, unfortunately, has also banned peasantry with the Metropolitan Law. But I'll continue to be a peasant, and I'm proud of it. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, fields and mera fields with the Metropolitan Law continue to open. Balıkesir's Karesi Municipality of AKP has now set up the fields for the schools of the villagers, for their mosques, for the village's corporate personality, for the ownership of the village, hundreds of acres of fields -- Mr. Minister, for your knowledge -- as well. In short, to get out of this situation with the Turkish peasant and his farmer, and especially to get through the crisis of milk as quickly as possible... look, hundreds of thousands, millions of college kids are staying in dorms, and my son has been in dorms for seven years, seven years. Let's give these kids half a gallon of milk in the evening, and their stomachs will have a feast. It's not the answer to the crisis, but it's a short-term, very short-term buffer suggestion. Of course, the AKP government wouldn't do that. Millions of Turkish youths are better to please one ally than to please their son. You know, I'm ashamed to say that, as an educator, millions of dollars of tax dollars have been nullified by those who curse the mother of the nation. Instead of making one person happy, let's hand out free milk to the youth of the university, people will pray for you. But then those businessmen won't donate to the Turgevs, where Mr. Bilal Erdogan was president. We all have faith, faith, faith, and faith in many of our friends. Is that a no? You will cancel the tax from the people, you will steal the property of the orphan, and you will donate it to TURGEV. Here, the valued MPs, unfortunately peaked during the period of robbery and plundering of the AKP in Turkey. I'm ashamed to say, you may not be ashamed, but for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, four ministers have had to resign from corruption and bribery. Yes, and you cleared it here. You're uncomfortable with this, but we'll keep saying it.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0159par0786	They forced me to resign!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0160par0787	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0788	Yes, you will continue to be disturbed.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0160par0789	Mr. President, would you please ask the minister to speak in a clean language?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0790	Look, I'll tell you something else: the watch on the arm of one of those ministers, the watch on his arm, was more than a thousand minimum wage fees, more than his salary. You didn't hear wrong; the watch in that arm was higher than the salary of a thousand minimum wagers. You've cleared these. That's the difference between us.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0161par0792	You're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0162par0793	Get 'em, get 'em! They're out of date.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0794	Yes, my dear friends, it may be old-fashioned for you, but you'll be rewarded for everything you've done, whether it's forbidden or lawful; that's how we, as Muslims, accept it as a Turkish nation. You can call it hama halal. That's the difference between us. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Dear, respected deputies, I'd like to mention something more: look what happened during the time they boasted: unfortunately, the number of farmers dropped from 2002 to 2016, to 5 million 998 thousand people, and the farmer's BUG-KUR priimim went from $322 to $435. Our peasant can't put it to bed. Again, millions of land in our country cannot be planted, and those who work in agriculture receive the lowest share. Look, there have been more than 50 per cent exports, especially vegetables, in the export fall. Why did this happen? If you interfere with Syria, if you interfere with Libya, unfortunately, if you stick to Islamic geography like a dagger, if you fight with everyone, if you share the bloodshed of Muslims, the export doors will close, the peasant and farmer will not sell their products, especially the narcissist. Yeah, we said our country was an import paradise. Look, 3 million, 300,000 head of animal imports were imported during the AKP government. Not to mention karkas. As I've just said, the mera fields have dropped rapidly, the amount of land that's been planted has dropped. Why? We've opened up construction and Ranta. I would especially like to call out from here that the greatest danger that awaits our peasant, our farmer, is pollution. There's a SECA Paper Factory in Balıkesir, and it's going to get its energy by burning coal. At the most dominant point of the Plain of Balıkesir, it is not two kilometers to the campus where about 50,000 people live; it is not two kilometers to the pond that meets Balıkesir's need for water, but not two kilometers to the local hospital that is made for Balıkesir. Now, after that, we will rise up, and say, "Why is the yield of the village, the farmer, and the fields that he sows so low?" We poison our land, our air, our water. Not only Balıkesir, but Bandirma, Bandirma and Erdek are also the dirtiest industries in the Casadağ Peninsula. The people of Balıkesir don't want them, just like the Artvins. I salute the government, which wiped out trillions of dollars of tax debt and pursued Artvin, who fought his man and his wife from the cradle to the grave, and also the Artvinians who stopped this environmental destruction and disaster. Honourable MPs, is that all the AKP has done? They slaughtered in public, massacred in public. They committed atrocities that would not allow them to search for the times of the coup. Just yesterday, those who described the February 28th process on television, where they were honeyed by honey, today, they read mercy on the 28th of February and on the days of the coup. From here on out, to hell with the coupgers! To hell with anyone who wants to live their faith, trying to stop them! But yesterday, when we stood up to them, unfortunately and unfortunately, before September 12th, you were hiding under the fringes, under the fringes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0163par0802	You're on your knees.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0803	Now you are wronging yourselves by means of what you have taken from the people. You've relieved hundreds of thousands of public employees in one day with illegal decrees, generalizations, for lack of a certain yellow union. You didn't enforce the court order. Not only that, but with these practices, you've dynamited the foundations of the state. You said Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, it's funny, it's got sympathy for the world, you even made the Besiktas Market a coupger, the coupger. It's really embarrassing and you've entered the most secret rooms of the state, the cosmic rooms, from the attempted assassination and coup d'état of the prime minister of the age. What was the result? What happened? They've been acquitted, acquitted, but the documents in that cosmic room, now, it's unclear who has those classified documents of the state.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0164par0804	It's in the hands of German services. MEHMET SUNAL (Antalia) - is on the Internet.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0806	If you do so, if you trap our heroic soldiers, officers, policemen, and policemen who fight the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) with false plots, if you spread documents on the roads in cosmic rooms, unfortunately and unfortunately, bombs will go off in front of the General Staff in Ankara, at the bottom of the Assembly. These blood spatter has spread to your face, and I'm highlighting it. You're being touchy, you're being touchy when we tell you about the betrayal policy. We don't call you traitors, but the process of your solutions, the plots against our heroic soldiers, our police who are fighting against the PKK, are treason policies, AKP's treason policies. Don't be so touchy, we'll keep reminding you. Again, I say, as you have put innocent and oppressed people in Silivri, by Allah's leave, those who have put our officers in the Silivri, and those who have shed the blood of the innocent will surely and will surely enter Silivri. Who are they? The Minister of Interior, the Chief of Police, the Undersecretary of the MIT, the relevant Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister of the period. If there is justice in the land, if there is law, then you will see that you will be judged in court, and you will enter the Silivri. Don't nod.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0165par0808	In your dreams, in your dreams! This nation won't allow it, this nation won't allow it!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0809	Yes, he will, he will, this civil coup will end. Yes, the civilian coup will be final.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0166par0810	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0811	You have wronged the people with the authority you have received from the people. You're gonna have to put up with this.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0167par0812	You'd love that. The parallel betrayal gang wanted it so badly, on February 7th, they wanted it so badly.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0813	Okay? I'm not done. I'm not done.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0168par0814	Are you telling me your dream?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0815	You walked with the PKK members...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0169par0816	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0817	You walked with the PKK people in the solution process, signed agreements at Dolmabahçe Palace.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0170par0818	You wouldn't dream of it. We have established a throne in the hearts of this nation. There's people behind him.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0169par0819	Do you look like you're walking down the street or do you have a face?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0820	Shame on you, shame on you, you're a Kuvayilliye boy, Balıkesir MP, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0171par0821	Mr. Ok, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0822	You walked with the men who held hands with the soldier, the ones who fired bullets.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0172par0823	Don't do things you don't know about.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0824	So you will answer for them, there is no doubt about it.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0172par0825	You're talking bigger than yourself. You don't know the size of what you're talking about. Those words are bigger than you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0826	What you've done in public... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, you stole the kids' questions, you stole the questions of college youth. You stole the questions at KPSS.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0172par0830	Look, the parallel betrayal gang went to a lot of trouble on February 7th!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0831	Decide, are you with the people, are you with the PKK?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0173par0832	Mr. Ok, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0174par0833	On June 7th, on November 1st, people decided who they were with.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0834	Once again, I say that the National Movement Party is always with its people, it will continue to be with it.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0173par0835	Mr. Ok...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0836	The sons of Kuvasimilli gave us authority over this.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0173par0837	Mr. Ok, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0838	I salute all of you with these feelings.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0175par0840	Don't salute!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0841	Therefore, these days will pass in darkness, and soon, God willing, those who cooperate with the PKK will answer.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0175par0842	That's what the parallel betrayal gang wanted.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0176par0843	Mr. Ok...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0844	I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0177par0845	What are you trying to prove? Who, what are you trying to prove?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0846	Yes, there are parallels in this country!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0178par0847	Mr. Ok...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0848	The parallel in this country is the AKP itself.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0179par0849	The parallel betrayal gang really wanted what you said!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0850	AKP parallel state, AKP parallel state!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0179par0851	The parallel betrayal gang wanted your desire!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0180par0852	Mr. Ok, your time is up. Please, we beg you!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0853	I say it here in your presence.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0181par0854	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0855	Shame on you, my fellow man, shame on you! Those who grow up in the city of Kuvaimilliye do not work with the PKK!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0182par0856	The parallel betrayal gang really wanted what you said.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0857	He will not walk with the PKK!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0183par0858	Mr. Ok...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0859	Look, 20-year-olds have been martyred, 15 years old...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0183par0860	Mr. Ok...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0861	When we were 15 days old, the husbands of our brides were martyrs.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0184par0862	Come on, come on!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0863	This is the work of the expansion process, the betrayal process.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0185par0864	Congressman, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0186par0865	Look, I'll report you to the State!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0866	You can complain anywhere you want. We have nothing to fear except God!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0186par0867	Bravo!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0158par0868	We do not bow to the oppressor!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit02spe0187par0870	Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0187par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue our talks on the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Act. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0188par0006	Mr. President, you have made it lawful for Mr. Ismail Ok, the speaker who was just speaking, to walk side by side with the PKK. You have followed the rules of treason. You are truly parallel. You must be ashamed! You must be ashamed! You must be ashamed! I demand word according to 69.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0187par0007	Mr. Bostanci, you know there's been this discussion in the last merger.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0188par0008	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0187par0009	So I took a ten-minute break, so I'm actually taking a break to close this discussion somehow. But if you want to make a statement as Deputy Director of the Group, I can promise you your position.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0188par0010	Then I want to tell you where I am.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0187par0011	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0188par0014	Mr. President, thank you. The Balıkesirians recognized Ismail Ok Bey at one time and did what needed to be done in 2014. It's probably going to be recognized by the nation this time, and I think it's going to go from the general atmosphere of the mp to where it belongs again, personally.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0189par0016	Where do you belong? And tell me, Mr. President, where did you belong?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0188par0017	He said a variety of phrases, insults, taunts, things that wouldn't be judged in criticism. Basically -- I'm praising the general of the MHP -- this provocation of Mr. Ok. was tried to be represented by some in the squares during the November 1st election, in a more severe way. In fact, I don't need to give you an answer, people have given you the most elegant answer. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0189par0020	Teacher, find something new. It's time to find something new.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0190par0021	If you transfer it to people, that means you're already accepting it.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0191par0022	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2014 CIRCLE AND VICTIMAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND DETECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account Congressmans, the speech is completed on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. The talks of the People's Democratic Party Group will now begin. I'll call the MPs to the stand in order. First speaker on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Erdal Atash. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Paper, your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0192par0064	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the budget assessment we've done for national defence, especially in today's hostile world conditions, are in a much more important and vital place. But, unfortunately, as with other matters, we are at odds with the current government and the government. It's clear that we stand in different places in policies that are based on many points. National defence is one of the key parts of the economy and politics. The sharing of this current economy for the needs of the public, the arrangements set at the basic rights point, as well as the links and similar links to the gun lobby of foreign policy and all other policies towards it, all of which reveal the overall orientation of the defence budget. In previous governments and governments, I'm afraid this issue has not been dealt with correctly, and our country's economy has been significantly squandered on military spending. So far, $400 billion has been wasted due to the ongoing war policies, rather than the solution to the problems in our country, stemming from monotheistic mentality. I'm giving you debates about this current pre-government. There has been no good relationship with any country that has borders, from tense foreign policy, and a policy under constant control of gun lobbying has been implemented by the politics of collecting a weapon, promoting war policy and collecting hostility. The people's trillions of dollars is worth billions of dollars - all of which have been squandered. In the field of education, in health, in the field of work, in the field of work, people's rights have been seized, and the position today has been revealed by people's poorness. Unfortunately, today's government has not only continued to make mistakes with a much more flawed policy ahead of this policy, but it has also applied a policy that deepens them. Separatist policies have continued as they were. The country is practically turned into a civil war. The cities are occupied, surrounded by tanks, cannons; millions of people's lives are destroyed; millions of people's lives are affected, economically created; people are forced to migrate; economically, the economy of this country is spent on the killing of our people under the name of defense, the slaughter of our people. Foreign policy is the same. Prior to the beginning of the First and Second World Wars, politics, which began five or ten years ago, is now taking place in the Middle East in a situation that reflects the early days of the third world war. All the world's arms dealers, all the imperial monopolyes, are fighting over energy sources in the Middle East and all the other riches. If the government and the government in our country are in this policy process, unfortunately, they're following a conflict process in a position that has been involved in all of this policy, which is starting a war on foreign countries. The neighbors' entire policy of hostility has been developed, their fighter planes have been shot down, their country's invasion projects are being developed, we launch two or three missiles against them, and we enter there. Plans are being carried out in the form of the neighborhood, and the borders are all closed. The tension of this current issue, unfortunately, has brought our country to the brink of a precipice. Our country's economy has been transformed into supporting gangs, sending them money and weapons in trucks. Again, the policy of gun lobbying is much more advanced in the past process. In the current process, around 20 billion dollars have been spent on developing and similar weapons and so on, with five to ten arms dealers dealing with gun monopolys, wherever there are around 27 billion dollars, wherever there are weapons in our country that can be used, wherever there are weapons in our country, they are wanted immediately, and these are being taken -- unfortunately -- are being used -- in these flawed policies in our country -- and they are being implemented both in internally and in foreign anti-enemy policies. Today's defence policy and the entire budget here have created far greater damage than the past, so this current understanding, which is considered $400 billion, has a ground and direction that, if the current policy is maintained, may be able to exceed the 1 trillions. Of course, it's not just about that. So when you take down Russia's plane, they automatically cancel their deal with you in a $20 billion trade, closing the doors. You're protecting your own country from a barbaric, regressive mentality, such as ISIS, while you've eliminated the trade and friendship there while you're trying to carry out occupational attempts. Armenia is carried on by the same policy. So it's not going well with the EU, it's not going with the United States, it's not going with Russia; it's not going well with anyone. It's reflected in agriculture at the same time. All things in the agricultural field that are going to Russia today have stopped, and the small tradesmen and producers here are almost ruined. The same policy applies to other matters. So tourism is affected here. Our country is completely, especially because of the support of ISIS and its likes, and because their work has been tolerated, people are no longer on vacation in our country because their progress has been transformed into areas of empowerment. Agriculture is being undermined, industry is being hit, all areas of trade have been impacted, and the populations in this country have been severely reduced to poverty, and the current issue has become a loss to our peoples. It has become so much the way that the current issue has been resolved in the policy that hundreds of countries in the world, people in their own language, education in their own language, all countries on the acceptance of their national status, five to 10 countries, except Turkey, all of which are at the top of it -- although in our country, unfortunately, Lazlar, Arabs, Kurds and so on -- are being driven out of this issue, killings are being carried out by denial policy in these areas with single-mindedness. In recent events, many of the cities have been shown here as well -- destroyed, destroyed, people forced to migrate, and economically created a major destruction. It reflects on education, reflects on the cultural structure, reflects on friendship, reflects on brotherhood. In a reality like this, society's genetics began to be manipulated, so our genetic tissue began to be tampered with. In this society, it was never accepted that a woman's body would stay on the street for ten days, but it was done during the government period. It was never accepted by this community that a woman's body was exposed in the middle of the street by being naked, but that government made it that way. He suppressed our society so that when people used to take their hats off when the funeral passed, there are people out there today trying to create enmity with each other, brother fighting, playing with the genes of society in a way that is neither our faith, nor our conscience, nor our morality. At this point, if this government does not give up its position, this society will suffer economic damage and the brotherhood that has lasted a thousand years among the people will be dynamited. Of course we won't let that happen. But as long as this current government continues this matter, it will continue to inflict great wounds among the peoples. How can we support the use of the defense budget in this position? So we can't and we can't agree to share the budget that came out of our taxes, and we can't support the killing of the people through defense. The national defence budget ended last year at $22 billion. At the same level this year, a little more are reserved for this area. At this stage, the share that has been divided here, both in the wrong policy in foreign policy, and in the wrong policy at the point of resolving domestic affairs in our country, as well as in the value of our people's arms dealers, unfortunately, is now in such a state that both social services and education are in the way of health. I'm not telling the rest of the episodes that I'm not telling people about when people who gave $1,300 and then took it back and lived with $900 and now they're living in worse positions at $1,300, and we're all about solving the problems of this national defense, solving the security issues of this country, not on the defence basis, but on a fraction of a small power's monologic mentality, which brings them to fill their pockets. There's duality. At this point, a two-headed policy is also implemented through the Ministry of National Defence and the Defense Industry Undersecretary. It increases expenditures as well as makes policies here more complicated. From covered funds, large shares are divided into these areas, covered funds have increased much more than the past. Likewise, the funds go here. In times of crisis, normally when workers and workers are going bankrupt, instead of budgeting them while agriculture is failing, unfortunately, in our country, as in every crisis, the budget has increased in defence during this period, it has been reduced on other sides. The inspection has been completely removed. So this issue has been eliminated on state secrets, secrecy, and other issues. Weapons companies... at that point, all of those companies that provide us with these expenses can control all of our country, all of them can account for it, but the public can't control any of these defense systems that they've taken on their own taxes. He can't control the research, he can't control the sale of weapons, he can't control any of the other issues. So at this point, all of them, including the Court, have reported that there have been significant damage to the issue, and there have been significant problems caused by the public not being able to control the issue. At this point, the public can see what is happening in this country, and we can make it very clear that if international monopolys can't control our defence spending, if they can't clearly see them, they won't be supported. It's the same for weapons production. We're going to build our own weapon. It's being tried. As long as you don't give up on the wrong policy, take it from the outside, take it from the inside, what difference does it make? If we're going to spill brother's blood with the gun you made in there, don't do it if we're going to attack the neighbors with a weapon to be produced inside, we don't have to. This issue is due to the surplus of the gun budget and the failure of policy. At this point, we will create greater destruction by deceiving the public and producing our own weapon. At that point, there's no way to produce anything other than four or five gun monopolyes, other than their control and permission. They'll never be able to do that with that policy. Only during election times, this issue is applied as a policy of deception. So is the matter of military bases. So our country is going through a period that is almost the threshold of the third world war - the Middle East and so on. At this point, almost all of the bases that exist have made our country an open target. Wherever it's being bombed, it's getting out of here and it's getting bombed, and that's what's causing those countries to develop hostility towards us and turn these defense systems of our people into a shield for bases. And from a conscientious objective point of view, there's also a major lynching attempt against people who don't want to go to war on conscience by opposing these policies and similar ones. There are dozens of countries in the world who volunteer. In dozens of countries, people who don't want a war, who don't want a gun, who stay away from here, can go and do their job in public. It has to be done that way in this country. That's the way it is in terms of military deaths. In research conducted by the Turkish Bar Association and the Retired Petty Officers Association, 815 people lost their lives in the conflict before June 2015, 964 of the suicide. Now, in such a reality, 15 research proposals are submitted during the 24th term, all of which are rejected. Most of the people, unfortunately, are either in the military, due to these wrong military practices and military systems, causing great damage to each other from racist, segregation policies, or in these conscious policies, people lose their lives and commit suicide. All applications made by families have been closed, along with the rejection of motions submitted by the AKP itself. Finally, let me say this: it's not that parliament approves of this current budget, but rather that it will bring more death, more increase, more persecution, and more exploitation in the event that all of this racist, segregation policies have been abandoned and that the current budget can't be converted into a friendly political policy in foreign policy. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0193par0091	Thank you, Mr. Paperman. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, the second speaker is Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken. Mr. Baluken, your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0194par0096	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I speak, I'd like to show you a board of four paintings, especially to the members of the group, and to the MPs, three of the four images are from the destruction of the government of the AKP, the Gladio and Ergenekon gang, in Sur.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0195par0099	Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) is the work of Kurdistan Workers'
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0194par0100	One belongs to the state of Israel in Palestine, Gaza, which reveals the same destruction and violence. For hours, we also held meetings with fellow counselors, and we found that picture by force, after long discussions, because we knew about it, and we knew about it. Now, I'm asking you guys: can you choose which picture of these four pictures belongs to the destruction of the AKP government and which picture belongs to the destruction of the state of Israel? I'll send it to you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0196par0101	How many tons of bombs did you drop, how many tons?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0197par0102	Pictures like him are the work of Jews, the work of Zionism, and the other is the work of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0194par0103	The MPs here may not know because they've spent most of their time in Parliament, but since the architect of this demolition painting is here, the Secretary of State of Defense is here, and the military officials who created it are also here, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, the destruction of the state of Israel of Israel of these four paintings...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0198par0104	The other is the work of the subcontractor Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0194par0105	...all 3 of which belong to the destruction you have committed in Tyre and Cizre.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0199par0106	How many tons of bombs did you drop, how many tons? How many cars did you blow up?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0194par0107	I ask you, which painting belongs to the destruction of Israel, and which pictures are the destruction of your government. I can send you the picture if you want. So, dear friends, I've just seen the argument here before the hearing with an example. In case there's a solution process, you'll stand in front of the judge. It's called, you can't come up here and use a sentence. Nowhere in the world, a government has held a peace conference in no country, and has not been brought before the court for conducting a negotiation to stop the bloodshed. In all the world's examples, the negotiations process, the peace processes are blessed, and even if the governments that contribute to it have failed, they are blessed by the peoples there. I'd expect one of you to come up here and say, "Let's take a swing at the table and say, "Yes, we've run that solution process as the AKP government." For two and a half years, we did not allow these ruined city paintings to live in this country, but we prevented a process that would cause the deaths of thousands of young people. Now, I don't know, in that process, ammunition was piled up, there were ditchs, there were barricades.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0200par0109	There was, there was.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0194par0110	There's been a few local incidents, and in two days, all those local events have been solved. When it comes to weapons stacking, we're in Middle Eastern geography, friends, and if we don't get in front of it, if the social populations meet in Turkey, there's about three days, there's about as much power in Turkey as there is in the world to arm the social population, two days, two days, one week, ten days. So you have to go out and have a clear stance on the understanding that you want to make that whole process look like a plague. You know what the problem is? At that time, I was brave enough to go out and drink the hemlock poison. Those who came out did not drink the hemlock poison themselves, but they gave it to the country and our people. However, if you were in a different position, there would be neither these paintings of blood and destruction flowing today nor would you be in such a position here at this level. Look, why are governments judged in world states, the solution processes, after negotiations? I'm out of time, I just came to read this. He is tried for failing to comply with the international law that constitutes the laws of the International Criminal Court, which I have just read several of its articles on the status of Rome. Governments are judged by blockades of city centers, curfews, punishing the entire city, exposing women's bodies, assaulting people in the honor of humanity. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you have a trial situation one day, why did you conduct a solution process, not why did you give up the solution process and create this picture of destruction? [[Applause from HDP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0201par0117	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0202par0118	Yeah, we'll be judged, and you'll be happy. Let us be judged, all of you be happy.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0203par0119	One day everyone will be judged.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0202par0120	No, no, be happy together.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0204par0121	Mr. Bonekara, please...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0203par0122	If you're guilty... if you're guilty...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0205par0123	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0204par0124	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0205par0127	Mr. President, thank you. The solution process has been brought up here many times, and we've given them the answers. Mr. Baluken, we give him the answer every time, and if he looks at the reports, he'll see the answers. The AK PARTY stands: to embrace the people and to fight terrorism. Maybe they didn't understand it, but our people figured it out, and on November 1st, they did what they had to do. He's given a partial response to those who don't look at it with people, and to those who don't look at it, let's see. Secondly, Mr. Baluken showed some photographs, showed the destructions, yes, the destructions of some towns, cities.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0206par0130	Which one was it?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0207par0131	Which one is Mr. Bostanci? Here, look. Which one is Israel, and which one is your work?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0205par0132	These weren't there before July 2015, none of this happened. He says so himself, there was no ditch, there was no barricade. He says so, yes. If the state had an action against civilians, against the Kurds, as Mr. Baluken put it, did the Kurds not live there before 2015, and there were civilians there? Why didn't this happen?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0207par0133	You know, the presidential calendar, I'll answer it. You know, the presidential thing, it got complicated out there.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0205par0134	Because that's not the government's approach -- now it's the president of the mix-up -- that's not it. After July 2015, the terrorist organization went out into the field, and that's what Mr. Bauken didn't see in one eye. It would be good for the HDP to see the cost of terrorism from here instead of talking to a diskur who plays umbrella for other initiatives like this. Third, by showing these photos and comparing them between the AK PARTI and Israel... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I continue?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0208par0138	Complete, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0205par0139	Thank you. Simulating between the EC PARTY and Israel is also a propaganda technique. Because people in Turkey know how much Israel is reacting to its policies towards Palestine, Mr. Bauken wants to bond them into PKK's actions, his reflex here. In no way is the policy of the AK PARTY the same as what Israel did to those poor Palestinians. You have to stop for a moment and think 50,000 times when you're making sentences like that. Now, there's Israel making an attempt against the Palestinians. The AK PARTY here protects the people from the destruction of the terrorist organization. Is there a connection between the Palestinians and the PKK? Now that the AK PARTI and Israel are similar, the Kurdistan Workers are Palestinians, are they, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0209par0142	They're also called Hamas.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0205par0143	We don't accept this analogy on any side. It's not appropriate, it doesn't make sense, and if we want to serve this nation -- and there are expressions about it -- this language, this approach is not good.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0210par0145	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0211par0146	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0210par0147	Mr. Bostanci, I want to respond by saying that I'm looking at things with one eye and that I'm actually trying to be different here, that I'm not going to sort out all the sentences anymore.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0212par0148	So you don't see the PKK. I said Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0211par0149	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0213par0151	Let him do it in his place.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0211par0152	He asked for it without bullying, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0214par0153	He's on the stand for bullying.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0211par0154	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0214par0157	Thank you. Mr. Bostanci, the matter of the solution has ended for what? For this, see the statements made by Prime Minister Davutoglu and Deputy Prime Minister Yalçin Akdoğan. We will not have you appointed President in the Parliament. When it was released, HDP made this exit in parliament concerning the solution process, the solution process began to be wounded after that. It is not I who said that the Prime Minister is the Deputy Prime Minister, it is the Deputy Prime Minister. You of all people should know that.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0215par0159	The PKK began to shoot people in the back, in the back, in the back of the neck, killing our soldiers, our police, that's right.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0214par0160	Look, since when does Imralı, the one who created the real problem with the solution process, have been in isolation with Mr. Ocalan? Since April 5th, were we in July when the isolation of the most important person involved in this project was imposed? How long between April 5th and July, as you mentioned? Let's say you accuse us, let's blame the PKK, and what has Mr. Ocalan ever done besides contribute to the solution process?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0215par0161	Isn't the PKK guilty, Mr. Idris?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0214par0162	Why did you put him on lockdown? What does the crash plan mean? What does the MGK meeting mean in October 2014? E, you need to get out of here and answer all of this. Oh, there was no war against the Kurds. Let's say you connect the painting to the trenches and barricades. What about Cerablus? Now, I'm sorry if you follow the rules of engagement from ISIS to El Nusra to the Kurds just because they're threatening the Islamists, Al Nusra, and they're clearly Kurdish enemies inside and out.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0216par0166	You can't get a bonus there.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0217par0167	Mr. Baluken, the terrorist initiative, which began in July 2015, presented as a government-run business in the context of presidential debates, is also trying to draw opposition circles in different positions on presidential matters into the PKK's line. That's his strategy, I reject that strategy.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0214par0168	It was ISIS who did it in July, ISIS. Where did you do 400 questions without a single attack on ISIS? Answer him. Get off the stand and answer me. Come in from the stand. Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0218par0170	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0214par0171	I mean, Mr. Bostanci, I wish he'd answered from the podium. After the massacre in Suruç, which Mr. Bostancı knows more about his perpetrator than I do, let Mr. Bostancu come out and explain for what reason the air strike against ISIS was launched. It's that clear.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0218par0173	Okay. Congressmans, your word has been made into the transcripts. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0219par0176	Mr. President, for the record, I'd like to make a statement. Yeah, there's a really bad picture. We're all really bleeding inside, but let's not forget that in this painting of your partners' solutions, you did it, I did it.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0220par0178	We're behind everything we do, we're not evading anything. We're saying the government should go back there, too.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0219par0179	People's minds should not be mocked. It is clear and clear that the painting is a painting of those who run Turkey and the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0221par0180	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0222par0182	Mr. President, there's nothing we've been passing on, nothing we've been putting off. We are honored by the work we are involved in as the People's Democratic Party. And we criticize the government for giving up that work and causing that kind of destruction, and we warn them that it is the only way to get back in that process. Thank you. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2014 CIRCLE AND VICTIMAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND DETECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0223par0220	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the third speaker is Adıyaman MP Behcet Yıldırım. Mr. Lightning, your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0224par0224	Thank you, Mayor. Dear MPs, respected peoples of Turkey, Mr. Commission and Government officials, I salute you all. I have made a pledge to state the opinion and proposals of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the 2016 budget of the Defense Industry Undersecretary of the National Ministry of Defence. Now, Mr. Bostanci, first of all, we had that July thing. A young man named Abdurrahman Alagöz did not do it alone. Go, you're the government. Who was behind that Sheik Abdurrahman Alagöz, did you figure it out? A petty officer was killed in Adıyaman, his perpetrator was not a terrorist organization, but deep forces. Have you been able to investigate them?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0225par0228	Easy, easy.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0224par0229	Two cops were killed in Ceylanpınar, did you find his perpetrator? You're the government, and you're gonna find them, and you can't just throw mud at them. And you say November 1st, November 1st, I'll tell you how we got to November 1st.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0226par0231	Make peace, make peace, don't fight.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0224par0232	This country has had June 7th syndrome, June 7th syndrome. Those who understand that they can't become president by democratic means, that they will even lose power in a democratic country, have quickly turned into the concept of war against dirty alliances. The loss of power by the AKP is the main reason for today's chaos, since the HDP elected 80 MPs on June 7th with a vote of 13 per cent or so. It has hurt the deep government deeply. This peace...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0227par0233	You read it wrong.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0224par0234	This is my second language. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0228par0235	He'd read it in his native language.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0224par0236	I wrote these, yes, but I wrote them in the second language.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0229par0237	Congressmans, please... Mr. Yıldırım, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0224par0239	If you want, I can speak Kurdish. I'd express myself better if I spoke my native language. This is my second language.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0230par0240	We don't say anything about your speech, we respect your speech, but you're reading it wrong, it's wrong.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0224par0241	Okay. It has hurt the deep government deeply, too. The AKP, who saw the peace process work for HDP, who saw the Kurds turn to HDP, played nationalism, said it did not recognise the agreement in Dolmabahçe on February 28th -- which was done within the President's knowledge -- knocked down the solution table, brought the whole concept of war into effect. Recep Tayyip Bey's skill in this matter is undeniable. It's a complete success story that the AKP, which lost power on June 7th, brought it back to power with 49.5 per cent in a short period of four-and-a-half months.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0231par0244	He's a political genius.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0224par0245	With war, chaos, fear, threats, threats, political bribes, Ergenekon, with deep government, with the MTI, with the police, with the Imam, with the governor, with the public officials, with their municipalities, with the dirty pool media and with the pencilists, with a total war, he has won the election, trying to bring the bill of this war to the HDP, which is the most innocent. In peace, it is understood that the mindset, which understands that everyone can't stay in democratic environments where they can express themselves freely, invests in a long-term war to sustain their power and shapes all their policies accordingly, preparing their budgets accordingly. If you decide your war policies and try to implement your war policies both inside and outside, you will have to prepare your war spending and your war budget. And when you make a war budget, it's the nature of the job that you can't afford enough opportunity and time for education, health, justice. It is clear that war spending will bring new costs to workers, workers, citizens. Even now, we feel it from the increases and increases. In a country with so many war and war instruments, heavy taxes, raises, constraints will weigh much more than savings packages. And when we say that, we also see an infrastructure of that in numbers. The money spent on the Kurdish issue was 300 billion dollars, and again, 8-10 billion dollars were spent on refugees from the Syrian civil war. Turkey is spending a lot of money on guns, guys. According to the Stockholm Institute for International Peace Studies (SIPRI) arms trade report, Turkey ranked sixth in the world's order of arms imports. The share of the purchases of goods and services of defence and security exceeds and exceeds the share of the purchases of goods and services for health care. Some projects implemented in the application explain the increase in military spending. So much so that since the conflict process -- as stated earlier -- with the exception of defence projects done by the relevant companies of the Defence Industry Undersecretary -- and the subsequent withdrawal of the conflict, according to official statements and newspaper reports, the number has been made between 314 and 402 new castles, construction of police stations, and on the border, 11 on the Şırnak line, 4 security dams have been built in Derim Munzur. The total cost is expected to amount to 207 million, while it is already spent $103.5 million for 7 of these. There is also a security road of 820km. Some 2,000 new rangers have opened up. Again, today, you boast that you're doing 400 questions to Kandil, which obviously does not have the benefit of solving the problem, but will bring serious cost to the budget. War policies are actually affecting the budget of all the other ministries we've organised today. As a result of his participation in the sharing war, the fall of a Russian aircraft, and the ongoing war practices, were naturally affected by the tourism revenues of the DAİSK, which turned the border into ligature cotton. In February of last year, there were only 55 tourists from Russia. Again, the domestic Kurdish problem will be affected by security, military perspective, tourism revenues. You're promising to pay for the loss of the bosses in tourism, which will be paid out of our pocket. And how will you pay for the loss of Turushlu, the Palash peasant boy, the middle class, the small tradesman? When the number of tourists falls in tourism, young people are out of work. Thousands of young people from Adıyaman go to Antalya every year to work, and the children who are now going to Antalya return because there is no work. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, what are we going to oversee here, and what are we going to answer for? Do people who run away from paying for their lives pay for their property? Here, not long ago, you know, on December 28, 2011, in the village of Roboski in Uludere district of Şırnak province, most were killed at the age of 28, with the bombs of 34 human fighters from the same family. What kind of government is this, what kind of government, whose own planes take off, bomb, slaughter their own people, but not a single criminal? Even in a car accident with a simple injury, there's no trial, there's no trial, there's no trial, there's no trial when it comes to Roboski. While this massacre has not yet been accounted for, the cost of this government is nothing more than a pipe dream to expect its income-go account to be asked. Due to the massacre in Roboski, the people responsible for the massacre were kidnapped from the judiciary and even tried to close the massacre with the court's own hands. Again, right now, there are months of illegal, illegal curfews that have been going on, and in the meantime, there's a systematic act of violence going on. There are deaths. The problem continues to take real lives. Those who went into Cizre to ensure safety of lives and goods left no life or possessions. What happened in Cizre, how many died, how many died, even the Assembly has no knowledge now. According to information from the crisis tables we've established around here, 178 funerals have been removed from the basements of brutality. We've made every attempt on civilians who have died in this basement of violence, we've interviewed the authorities over and over again, we've done all kinds of acts, including hunger strike; not even an ambulance can be sent. After all, there's been a massacre, and there are bodies burned beyond recognition. Most of these funerals are unidentifiable. It's not enough that you've slaughtered so many civilians, innocent people, that each one of them's funerals are sent to different provinces, where their families are subjected to a second persecution. And right now, people are going to the morgue, trying to identify the bodies of their children, trying to get to know their bodies through DNA tests. The same atrocities that have been committed in Cizre continue in Sur. Again, the eyes are blind in Tyre, and the ears are deaf, as they were in Cizre. I'm not just saying, we're in the area all the time, and I'm having trouble telling people about peace, especially to young people, and they're losing their faith in peace, and we're going to live freely together in the common land. Even if I say so, they don't care anymore. No one talks about brotherhood or peace there after possible massacres. There's nothing left to tell the public anymore. When we say that, there are emotional disconnects, and tomorrow it will be too late. When we say that, do you threaten the ruling ranks? Their cries are rising. Oh, my God! Let's not normalize any deaths. I'm saying this for all our lives. There, young children are dying. This is a soldier, a cop, a guerrilla, and it doesn't make any difference, and every day, plain sight to face, civilians are killed, war crimes are being committed. All these deaths break up this country a little more every day and hurt us. The parliament should have played a role in stopping this war, but with pressure from the government and non-democratic Parliament's Institution, it can only stand by and watch these deaths. You don't put the word "sistership" out of your mouth, but the statement of the government and the president says we don't accept the Kurdish corridor. An understanding that doesn't even accept Kurdish neighbourhood speaks of Kurdish brotherhood today. How do you plan to become brothers with a people you don't even consider a neighbor? Again, you can't solve this problem by saying I don't deal with him, I don't deal with him. The government is seeking reassignment. What happened to the will of the people you didn't drop? When people don't vote for you, don't they have willpower? Is it only will when you're voted? HDP is a party with 6 million votes. The people voted, counting this party as willful. I don't know that will, you say. You don't know these people for years, there's no Kurd. You said, "There's Kurd." And then after a hundred years, there's Kurd, but he doesn't have will." It doesn't happen when you say there isn't. Again, according to the statement of the President and the government media, there is not enough internal war, there is talk of entering Syria. It's not strategic depth, it's strategic insanity. Turkey is trying to get into this swamp. To those who want this war, I suggest you send your own children, but do not use the poor Anatolian children to fight a war you cannot send your own children to. What did the government do? An Arab spring is coming, and I'll lead it in the Middle East. When I said that, he dived into the potential consequences, his own power, his own budget, international relations. In implementing this policy, he built the rational existing field, regardless of the sociological infrastructure. In the Middle East, especially in Syrian policy, he acted in complete sectarian and anti-Kurdish policies. These sectarian and anti-Kurdish policies have put the country in a complete deadlock in Syria. If you follow a purely warrior policy, it costs, and that costs not only in terms of economics, but in social, political, cultural areas, problems and costs in many areas. The consequences of today's war in Syria are simply a refugee problem. There are two and a half million refugees who have to be in every aspect of life and live among us without any social security. Surely this cost for years to come will increase even more. Yes, the balance of power is at odds in Syria and Syria. Maybe they all believe they can create something at gunpoint, but Turkey could still be the biggest winner in Syria without firing a single bullet. The way this works is clear, and we wouldn't have to put so much money into the war. America, Russia, and other Western countries are trying to stay there by force, not border countries, but we have cultural ties that have lived there for thousands of years, we have a 911 mile limit. That's exactly why we have such a long line of boundaries that we need to follow a peaceful policy there. There are millions of Kurds living on that border every day, called our brothers ▪. You can't guarantee your border security by fighting them, by fighting them. Who are we dealing with the whole world today? Because of the Kurds whose millions are citizens of this country. Anti-Kurdish policies today have isolated Turkey from the world. If you want to be at the table in Syria, you must not first overthrow the table in your own country. If you save your own table, you will surely be at the table in Syria. The defence industry, military spending, is a situation that is completely affected by the policies you follow. The infrastructure of this war budget is the policies followed by the government. I will solve the Kurdish problem with war and security measures. During that time, you spent $300 billion. What happened when you spent it? You've wasted the resources of this country, and you've wasted the youth of this country, and you're wasting the future of this country. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have proposed a peace project as the source of all these problems. The Defense Industry Undersecretary's office has said that this is the cost of this project, this is the cost of this project; that's how we're ranked in the world, and that's how we're going to get a lot of money transferred into projects, and it's estimated that most of them could be running for a waste project. Look, I'd like to make a very serious contribution to the Defense Industry Undersecretary financially: What is the most costly project? It's a serious and sincere peace project. As long as you cannot carry out a stable peace project in the country and in the Middle East, we are doomed to lose as a country. Now, you might say, in the context of these war policies, how should we follow peace policies in Syria? It's a simple situation. There are millions of Kurdish citizens who live in our country and citizens in this country, and they have aunts, uncles, uncles, kirves behind the walls that you build. If we want to breathe in Syria and all over the Middle East, we must conduct a correct and peaceful programme that includes the future vision of Kurds in neighbouring countries. The country's greatest weapon in Syria is the Kurds. But what are you doing? You're building walls to your border with Kurds. Believe me, you're wasting money on the walls you built on the border. We're going to have to tear down those walls in a not-too-long period of time. If you had followed a peaceful policy in both the country and the Middle East, perhaps today, we could have removed those walls, let alone those fences. That's where the autocratic war government comes in, as we insist on these peace policies. In a war environment, the mind, the idea, the free thought, the reasonable solutions are pushed aside, and politics is done through the concepts of eunuchs. In a peaceful environment, this government is blocked because the politics of the hammock are blocked in a peaceful environment. This government has reversed its war policies to save itself, not to save the country, but with experience, no government has ever been able to stand up with war policies. You can cover, hide, slaughter anything for a short time, but you're doomed to lose in a not-too-long future. The Defense Industry Undersecretary talks about defence projects. Look, we crashed a Russian plane, now we're budgeting. How much does it cost for us to bring down this Russian plane? I'm asking the government: what was the impact of the plane's landing on the country's cost, tourism, energy, textiles, social and political relations? That, my friends, is the way of the land, war on the inside, war on the outside. The poor pay the price of war with their lives and their possessions, and we may have to spend the entire budget on one pen the day after tomorrow. These budgets we're doing, the income-go account, they can all be put on the shelf. It's a dead end, it's a dead end. So, how do we get out of this deadlock? Turkey must change its fundamental paradigm for long-term relief, not short-term. The Kurdish problem is no longer the problem of Turkey on a national scale, but is now an international problem in the region, as well as in the four countries in the region, usually with the current status of the Middle East. Therefore, Turkey, which has quickly solved its Kurdish problem, will not become a squeeze in international relations. In this sense, Turkey must go to a fundamental paradigm change. No matter where in the world, Kurds must not view their gains as the loss of Turkey. I would like to point out that in an environment in which the Middle East has turned into a pool of blood, it will prevent Syrianization in this country, that your understanding to bring these people out of the pool of blood, out of the chaos is not the declarations of war by the AKP, but in the spirit of the wife, who holds the faith in peace, as Mr Abdullah Ocalan put it. At the beginning of the speech, I told you, how are those who don't pay for their lives going to pay for their property? You know -- on the press -- there's new security laws coming out, which are all shot, broken, and I've got your back. It's a protection, it's got nothing to do with the law, and I'm missing it, and I'm finally saying this: You know, the House today has been ordered to have a trial for our co-chairs and some of our fellow lawmakers, not a recommendation, but a future. I speak to all my people, to all the Houses, to my co-chairs and other friends, and I have done more, and I stand by everything they do, and I stand by every word they say, and we never fear them, these things. Mr. Ahmet Hakan also told us that he would be happy to come and receive honey wages in the parliament. Mr. Hakan should know that no HDP deputy is a substitute for a salary; they are all here as veterans of a situation, a tradition and a political stance that will not be paid for, if you give the whole world. If he wants to, let him investigate all of our lawmakers' assets, not now, but in the past, cross-reference their assets with their current status before he becomes a member of parliament, who has expanded their budget with all the honey wages, bribes, corruption. If so, we'll say, "Thank you!" And when that happens, I say, "Let's investigate corruption, theft, war crimes." Was there a ditch or a pit in Adıyaman? 250 people were taken into custody, 30 or 40 were arrested; 11 people were taken into custody even today. In a nutshell, there are very important defence projects conducted in the field of land, sea and aviation by the Defense Industry Undersecretary. Do you know what the most reliable policy for this whole country is? It's a peace project. There are no projects, no budgets in this country until we implement this project. Even if it were, it wouldn't do any good to this country, to this community. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0232par0277	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0233par0278	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0232par0279	Here you go, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0233par0280	Mr. President, in the speech of Mr. Yıldırım, you kill and slaughter innocent Kurds. We want to talk about 69.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0232par0281	Well, I promise you two minutes, Mr. Cakir. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0233par0286	Thank you, Mr. President. We don't kill innocent Kurds, we don't kill Kurds. If there are people dying under extraordinary circumstances in the region, there are Kurds in them, there are non-Kurdish elements. Thus, the identity of the people who were killed reveals a picture not by the identity of the Kurdish but by the identity of the terrorist. If anyone's been killed, it's the song, the rebels, the terrorists. Mr. Yıldırım says in his speech, do you threaten him? We're not threatening, we're doing more than that. What does it mean to threaten those who are engaged in an attempt against the state, against the current order? Rather, the threat is only a prerequisite; rather, by going over them, the security forces reveal that by doing what they need to do, they have to be involved, in a sense, deactivated. It's not a threat, it's not a threat, it's a necessity. That is the duty of justice. If you're fair, you have to distinguish between right and wrong, the guilty from the innocent. What we're doing right now is being fair, distinguishing right from wrong, distinguishing the guilty from the innocent. It's the need to be a decent state, to be merciful. On the other hand, Mr. Baluken said: "You're in shock." No, we're not hungry. If you want to see what's going on, Mr. Baluken, the painting has been very clear for the past few days, and the call to the Wall and to the Friday call to the region, to the region, to our Kurdish brothers, is clearly and clearly evident. If we're looking for a jerk, that's a jerk. Yours truly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0234par0293	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0235par0294	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0234par0295	Mr. Group Vice President picked on us during his speech, saying we were helpless. We want to talk about bullying on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0235par0296	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0234par0297	Mr. Meral Danış Beştaş will speak.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0235par0298	Yes, Mr. Prosecutor, please.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0236par0300	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, Your Honor, I would say that the Deputy Director of the Group boasted of being fair, and said that they had separated the guilty from the innocent, and that they did not bring any difficulty to the citizen, that they had committed no crime. You can only claim that you are guilty and innocent, or there is no point in saying that you are fair; the important thing is that citizens of Turkey, the society of Turkey, are truly fair. You know, in folk language, it's not self-gratulation, it's that I've done these things, I'm fine. It's not that I'm well. It's that they're appreciated. So the Peace Greenman was killed as a mother, in his own garden, with his two children. The funeral of Ekin Van Nah, his naked body was exposed. Just last week, in Mardin, a woman was killed by a fire fired from the Panzer because her mechanism was broken. From a three-month-old baby to Miray, 70-year-old Taybet İnan, you will always hear these names, where they are killed and slaughtered. Is that what being fair is? If that's what being fair is, what is injustice, we need to look for its answer together. Right now, no illegal organizations are being fought, the public is being fought. Today, Mr. Prime Minister has gone to Silopi and says: "We have shown the power of the state, now it's in compassion." Is that possible? Go, burn, destroy, kill, slaughter hundreds of people, all over the place, and then we show strength, but now we show compassion. So these are subjects? Are they slaves or black men of this country? People living in Cizre have been crying blood for months, facing death every day, losing hundreds of children, now talking about compassion. Such compassion is not accepted, such a defense is never accepted. There is no reward for it, and there is no reward for what you say in this life. That's what we want to express.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0237par0305	Thank you. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2014 CIRCLE AND VICTIMAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND DETECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account The fourth speaker on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group is Mr Ahmet Yıldırım. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Lightning, your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0238par0345	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you first. I have made a special commitment today to express our group's opinion on the central management budget of 2016 by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. And frankly, before we go one by one to the institutions of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, I'd like to express our thoughts about science freedom and university autonomy, which we think has caused a huge problem in our country. There has been a constant controversial relationship between ruling structures and society from the day science, which had first emerged as an antithesis from the discussions between religion and philosophy in human history. Human history and scientific studies have been a constant problem with the ruling structures and the scientific institutionalization of scientists or as a whole. Today, the most important problem of science is the question of autonomy and freedom of universities, research centers, science and its members. As there are many geographys of this world, this problem is very painful in our country. Clearly, in the historical section, science and scientific freedom have always been considered dangerous by the state and society, by certain parts of society. Because the purpose of science is to seek a truth that is constant, new, and unusual because it is new. It's always about the truth. The purpose of the new is to be revealed objectively, objectively, in a unique way, that which has not been revealed so far. There was a constant conflict between the principles and values of science and science and freedom and certain parts of the state and society. Clearly, from the early scientific study of Sumerians to Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle in Ancient Greece, there have always been contradictions, conflicts, disputes, and problems between these ruling structures and the members of science. When a scientist conducts scientific work, science has no state, no ethnic, no national, no religious boundaries, no regard for them. When a scientist conducts scientific studies, he chooses the path of truth, not the sensitivities of the state, but the sensitivities of nationality, not the sensitivities of society, but the universal principles of science, the universal principles of science. From here, he wants to transcend everything that comes before him as a blocker, he doesn't listen to those who want to draw boundaries, and he believes that anything that is alive, anything that is alive, anything that is temporary and variable, no matter what is the subject of working in this sense of truth - space, nature, nature, geomediatism, history, power, power, power. Science believes that nothing is static and static, that as long as this supplyer returns, everything will change, and the living and the lifeless environment will always change. Political structures, rulings, nothing that belongs to humanity is far from that. This represents a tremendous amount of savings and experience that 5,000 years of scientific work have uncovered. So, what does science based on, not on, their state, their borders, their status quo, his stereotypes? The subject of study is based on the facts he's made and the interpersonal relationships he's had. It no doubt disturbs the conformism of its own work on breaking the dogmatism that will stand in its way of reaching the truth, crossing borders, the indisputableness and change of state and power. Because as a result of scientific studies, whatever the subject of work, especially in social sciences, social sciences, when the truth is being achieved, the most uncomfortable of the historical process have been the ruling structures. Of course, all scientific studies are unique within themselves, but according to science and natural sciences, social sciences have been considered more dangerous by the structures of power, and some of the social structures, which are at risk of being disturbed by the disturbance of their comforts with governments, because social sciences put the power imbalance between power relations and social classes into its goal, and try to investigate the pressures that have been exposed through power imbalance. It's found in social science, the reasons, the pressures that have been exposed, when they're trying to demonstrate the way they've been suppressed, but self-conscious scientists and workers, no doubt their workers, don't ignore the resistance of science to this pressure. Social science, the government and society deal with the oppressed, the rich and the poor, the women and the men and the oppressed with political, military, economic, social, cultural and psychological reasons and their backgrounds and access to the truth over this revelation and the removal of social issues with a scientific perspective. Again, we have to point out that when we do these studies, it's not about legal boundaries, it's about universal truths and its quests, and it's about the most important priorities and sensitivities of the scientist to cross its borders. And that, in the eyes of the powerful, is the unforgivable sin of scientists, because it threatens their creation of power structures. It threatens the comforts they maintain in an unstable way, in a disproportionate way. It's not just today and our country's problem, in different parts of the earth and in different times, but in the last few centuries, scientists, the autonomy of science and the freedom of science have been constantly blocked, pressure tools have been raised. But we must regret that in recent years in our country, unfortunately, we've been going through a process where these pressures have been routineized, despotic and threatening in science, especially in terms of being able to turn into action. It's a disproportionate situation that doesn't match the historical collection of cultural treasures that our country is built on. A scientist doesn't care who he thinks and studies disturb, who he makes happy. A scientist does not see whether the government or the opposition will benefit or be happy as a result of his studies. A scientist is always after truth and truth. In Western countries today, we can say that relatively much more university autonomy and scientific freedom are institutional, especially according to the East, which we are in. There is no doubt tension between science and the state in the West. However, tension between scientific environments and state and ruling structures in the West is never a basis for interference and pressure in university and science. Again, I would like to point out that the level that the West has arrived today is never, ever, ever a savings from its own historical background. Let us put it this way: When the West began to come out of its own dark period, when it slowly began to develop thought and science, the Renaissance of the West, a very serious savings from the East have been smuggled into the West and fled. Today, the West conducts this arrangement on the scientific savings and acquish that Western human rights today, if Western universal standards are at ease. This is the land of Asia Minor and Mesopotamia, in the historical process... look, the nail writing on the tablets in Mesopotamia, as it was accepted by the entire world, began in Mesopotamia, a thousand years before the West, from astronomy to mathematics, from medicine to many branches of social sciences. The West tried to build a cultural treasure on the riches it had smuggled out of here, building its destination on the treasures of the autonomous structure, its value, its freedom, its freedom, which it today has defined especially to science. As of today, we face the freedom of science, which is limited to certain benchmarks of a limited number of universities in Turkey. In particular, I would like to continue my discussion with a few examples of the West taking the cultural treasure of science from the East to the West. Imagine, all over the world, Pythagoras is considered the father of mathematics, but Ionian Pythagoras did not receive education in Ionya or Greece. Twenty-two years in Egypt, seven years before that, in Babylon, or Mesopotamia, he opened up scientific ground in the world, which is now valid for his age. While this treasure of the East has been ignored in Mesopotamia -- especially in medicine, mathematics, astronomy and social sciences -- we are trying to conduct it with a difficult process in our universities today, not with the autonomy of science, but with the pressures sacrificed for the sake of power, and the conditions of their work -- to bring out their noses if they are right. I'd like to move in and give you some information on a few agencies. I explained it to Mr. Secretary during the commission talks. Look, in TÜBITAK, scientific knowledge in particular should be open to criticism, testable, consistent. Again, the independence of scientists to produce information is one of the most important conditions. Contrary to the institutional mission, TÜBITAK has now been increasingly removed from these conditions and has been transformed into an institution. Rather than a scientific identity, a state institution has been transformed into a public institution, and TÜBITAK has begun to lose substantially its expertise to spread scientific research, information, to the benefit of the public and society, and has been transformed into an institution, which, unfortunately, has not been independent with the community, not by your expertise, but by the legal powers of power and power. Let us act on an example about TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK) that all our fellow trustees in the recent past may know. As you know, tax officials have argued here on behalf of the state, especially on the part of a meteor that fell in the village of Yellowflower in the fall, especially on the idea that these stones might be of material value, that those who come here to collect samples from locals and Western countries -- look, TÜBITAK -- will not be taxed on the part of the government, especially by the people's incomes -- will not be taxed off meteors. Rather than where this can be used in scientific studies, it has been approached by a merchant's logic, as if we would use it with a tax.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0239par0361	Ahmet Hajji, that's the finances, the finances.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0238par0362	I was going to read his tweet right now. Look, Mr. Secretary, this statement that Mr. Simsek of the era shared on Twitter is truly an example to all of us, for the autonomy of science, for freedom. ▪ Should taxes be taxed on stones? Look, should taxes be taken from stones? He shared the survey from Twitter. In other words, let's put it in terms of TUBA. Scientific boards are the prestige of countries. They do this in a way that will help them move forward and correct wrongs by criticizing the state and governments when necessary. Scientists on these boards don't discuss their own competencies. However, the TÜBA lost its autonomous structure during the AKP administrations because today one third of those appointed as members of the ÜBA (TÜBA) are coming from the YÖK, one third from the TİBİTAK, which is again designated by political power, and only one third from its members. THE TUBA, unfortunately, has such a political identity. Before I complete my speeches, especially -- our Minister of Agriculture is not here -- but it's about my own constituency, the TIGEM, in my own constituency of the election, which I asked the Minister during the commission, thank you, Mr. Secretary sent an answer to my address in the House through the bureaucrats. Dear lawmakers, the TIGEM land in Mushan has 65,147 acres of land. When the TİGEM was first established, one third of these 65 thousand-odd acres were raised from surrounding villages, so that our economic and prosperity would rise. As the minister explained in his reply, the government was donated from the wealth of the villagers. Well, while the public is busy processing its own sweats, ancestors, grandfathers, and their leftovers, and the state will develop this city with the contributions we have provided. The Agriculture Ministry tendered an ad published in the Official Gazette on July 25, 2010, and rented it to a subsidiary commercial company on March 16, 2011, on a long-term rental route. We asked the Minister at the Commission, and we said, "Look, this place is not being used in accordance with the terms of the contract. This place is leased to third parties without your consent, but Mr. Secretary claimed it didn't happen in the paper he delivered to us through the bureaucrats. Let me put it this way: Look, Mr. Secretary, to present their names to you at any time, there have been no business accidents. You have answered: A citizen named Engin Bird is in a business accident, who can never use two fingers, and is being fired because he's on his way to a trial. Some of the workers who have suffered a greater injury -- whose names are ruined by me -- are subcontractors; do not go into the path of justice, do not demand compensation; we will put you on the staff. They try to silence you. The poplars that should not be cut off on the TIGAM land are cut down, sold for 726000 TL; Mr. Secretary, they are in the company records, and we can deliver them. Again, in the end, 1,470 acres are rented to a village. In the same way, Mr. Secretary, half the staff members in this contract work, you run on the contract, you run on the condition of the lease, and you run on the condition of a TIGEM bureaucrat who has the responsibility to oversee the company that you hired, I have the name, if you like, Mr. Secretary General. Think about it. He's the general manager of a company that you hired a bureaucrat to oversee. Will there be an effective inspection and investigation against irregularities, Mr. Secretary? You know, you said you'd protect everyone's rights over the unfinished orphan's rights, 65,000 acres of land, unfortunately, is now being used as a farm. My respects.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0240par0370	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the fifth and final speaker is Bitlis MP Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı. Mr. Bagpipe, your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0241par0375	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to state the opinion and suggestions of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the budget of 2016 of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism does not provide detailed information on imports and exports on the website. In most information, TÜİK is being shown as a source, TİK is not doing full field work, only preparing a report according to the Ministry website. In this context, many independent organisations cannot write reports. For him, it's doubtful how much of the numbers are reliable. Although, last night, our young minister said in his speeches, the numbers don't lie. Not numbers, people lie, giving the wrong numbers. The state of agriculture is not a pink painting like the Prime Minister, the minister and AKP MPs drew. While Turkey was one of seven self-sufficient countries in the 1970s, it now imports many of its food pens. Agriculture's share in Turkey's economy is getting smaller and smaller. Agricultural areas have decreased 10.7 per cent in 12 years of AKP power. There has been a decline in agriculture in 62 provinces of 81. According to 2013 data, a total of 29 million 555,704 acres have been destroyed. Although the ministry said the public spotlights would not allow extra-foreign activities in productive farmland, the government has opened 27,825,64 acres in a ten-year period between 2004 and 14, which mentions improvements in agriculture in all areas. Most of the losses are in Konya, which is known as Turkey's grain depository. There are 27.35 per cent and 7 million 161 thousand acres lost in Iconium. It is followed by the provinces of Yozgat, Diyarbakır, Kars, Adana, Afyon, Maraş, Malatya, Edirne, Tekirdağ. Both the government's war policies and the share of agriculture in employment with neoliberal policies have been reduced from 34.9% to 24.6%. In fact, the AKP government, which paints positive images in many areas of political, economic, or social, is systematically and consciously covering up the existing crisis. The head of the Chamber of Agriculture Engineers Executive Board has stated that Turkey has been constantly spoken by government officials as the most productive country in the world, whereas the truth is the opposite, saying that many products produced in Turkey are not enough for the people of Turkey, including wheat, barley, chickpeas and lentils. Perhaps the most striking approach is that even the hay is imported from Ukraine. We, above all, don't know the value of the land. More than 2 million people were taken from agriculture. I'm afraid we're not yet fully aware that the high ground, called the "topsoil" that took thousands of years to form, is worth gold. We're wasting this wealth, which can grow an inch in about two hundred years, which should be at least eight inches thick for agriculture. In areas of construction activities, a minimum of 20 centimetres of high ground must be removed as a reserve. Of course -- it starts with AKP's mill in 2002 -- only if you multiply the roads, dams, and ponds that were built during the AKP period, by just 12 inches [20 cm] will produce a dramatic volume. Imagine, the Netherlands has built up land from the sea, and we're both losing and slaughtering our land. Although our country's animal population is ranked first in the world, it is not at a rate of efficiency or production. While animal breeding was particularly early in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions, the production of livestock has been greatly reduced due to rural areas, minefields, banned mera and pedestrians that have been evacuated since the 1990s. Turkey's animal presence is dwindling day by day, animal exports are falling. The final point of animal policy is unlimited imports. Since 1960, the breeding culture race of Europe has been imported from different countries. The native race, the Eastern Anatolian Red race, is about to disappear. Instead, you've assembled the Montophone, Holshtayn, Simental, Jersey, and at the end of the day, a race called Angus, who doesn't know what it is. Since such choices were made through testing and error methods, 50 percent of breeding animals from each period were destroyed because they were unable to adapt to climate and bait. If we look at the distribution of sheep from 2000 to 2014 according to species and races in Turkey, the number of sheep appears to have increased in 2010, but compared to 1991, 2014, there is a 22.98 percent reduction. According to 1991, the number of sheep slaughtered in 2014 declined by 34.43 per cent and the amount of meat produced by 23.05 per cent. In today's terms, there's nothing appealing about raising animals, especially when considering other expenses, including bait prices. I'd like to ask the Minister if there's any hormone control in the livestock market? Is there a limitation on the hormone dosage? Because these are directly proportional to human health. Unfortunately, the hilt and anthrax have been kept secret, even though it is in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions. The European Union is encouraged in harmony with the manufacturer. There are many associations with the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. The transfer of this incentive to the manufacturer is also done through the units established. The Union is a Turkish-type version of the European law of harmony. The troops are just a source of incentives. You'll remember the blue strike operation, Mr. Secretary. The city's agricultural administration and troops have been corrupted by 10 million liras of support and zero interest loans from 200,000 imaginary animals. Earrings for animals may be suitable for inventory work, but the ingredients for animals walking in the meadows are not suitable. Earrings are cheap, simple pieces of plastic that cost pennies. These cost the manufacturer three larges, one and a half lira each for each animal. And when you walk through the Mera, you realize that thousands of earrings are on the floor. Food guarantees and food safety problems continue to grow in our country as well as in the world. As a result of the neoliberal policies implemented, 1 billion people are fighting for life under the age of hunger, while 1.3 billion people are dealing with obesity related to extreme and misfeeding. Since the National Biosecurity Act is in effect, the genetically modified organism, the debate on GMO (GMO) is being concentrated, and unfortunately there is no public explanation necessary by the Ministry. The starch-based sugar, which does not feel like a ton of toxins and causes many chronic diseases from cancer to heart disease and liver failure, is, in fact, banned in France, the Netherlands and England, and Turkey is setting a record of consumption. In the United States, when scientists linked the increase in obesity and obesity diseases to corn syrup, the production was reduced from 10 percent to 2 percent, but the production quota in Turkey increased by 10 per cent to 15 per cent. The only reason is that starch-based sugar is 250 or 300 dollars cheaper per ton than a pancara. Even though it may seem cheaper, we're paying several times that with health problems. In Europe, this is six kilos in Turkey, as opposed to 1.5 kilos per person's starch-based sugar consumption. In addition to producing corn in Turkey, corn is also imported. This is imported to produce corn syrup. Imported corn is definitely GMO. Only in 2008, 1 million 151,490 tonnes of corn were imported. In his speech the other day, Mr. Yalçın Akdoğan was shaken by political and economic instability, conflicts, wars, humanitarian crises. What is forgotten in this turmoil is man, that man is missed, and there are great human crises, he said. I fully agree with Mr. Akdoğan's confessions. Sur, Cizre, Cizre, Şırnak have expressed the events of the past months. For many years, security policies and villages and mehras have been evacuated, their habitats have been restricted, the meadows and the plateaus have been banned, and people have been taken from their bread, land, and animals. After these prohibitions, the idea of agricultural and animal production was to return to our village, where the project was tried to be created. Prime Minister Davutoglu has announced that he will support young people by up to 30,000 TL. Mr. Prime Minister, you can't overcome problems in agriculture and animalism by giving people short-term economic assistance. In order for the economy to get back on track, we need to put people in a productive and productive position to make money. Otherwise, it is evident that both the manufacturer and the consumer will be victimised by a production policy that works with the middleman and the merchant. We can only overcome this problem with a conscious and programmed agricultural policy. Another concern is the tax understanding of tobacco and alcohol. According to the distribution of revenues in the 2016 budget, 84.8 per cent of the budget's revenues are made up of taxes, and the rest are high increases in fees, electricity, gas prices, penalties, and other state revenues. 33% of private consumption tax revenues are provided from alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. In order to cover the deficit in the budget, counterfeiting and smuggling have been triggered, along with increases in tobacco, tobacco products and alcoholic beverages. Every year, people die from fake alcohol. This meaningless tax must be drawn to a meaningful point. You've finished producing tobacco, but you keep profiting on tobacco. Today, even Greece, which you call a failure and set precedent with Philip Morris, has agreed for three years to promote tobacco production and make the manufacturer's face smile. And because of companies like Philip Morris, we've sacrificed the manufacturer and the worker. Soma was one of the major tobacco production centres in the Aegean Region until the AKP finished its tobacco sector. You guys killed people first, and then condemned them to mining. I'd like to say something about the Bitlis province where I was acting. Because of the geographical position, Bitlis' economy is an agricultural and animalism. Both private sectors and state-owned jobs have not been opened, factory-type jobs are closed, to eliminate unemployment. People make their living out of agriculture and livestock. The economy of 342 villages was based on tobacco production. The cigarette factory, which had previously worked for about 1,500 people in Bitlis, was closed during the AKP government, and no alternative was offered. So each of the villages that produce tobacco, which employ like a factory, stopped producing tobacco. Therefore, young people had to emigrate to Western provinces. In Bitlis, the economic and social system was confused by closed factories. As a result of the imposition of the world's cigarette cartels, tobacco-producing fields and cigarette factories have been shut down. The profit margin in cigarettes ranges between 200 per cent and 300 per cent. Of course, the result is that the imperial forces are willing to control the market by mixing such a high profit margin with habit and addictive additives. And I'd like to mention that the water is the main source of agriculture and life, as it is known. Mr. Yalçın Akdoğan will know very well that in his speech from here, Somalia said he opened 1,046 water wells and that more than 25,000 people in the 14 villages of Crimea were building water projects and building thousands of buildings. I want to tell you two events because I'm a one-on-one witness to events. One: During the election, when we went to the village of Jamalatttin, we saw no one in the village. Next thing we know, on the side of the mountain, there's a whole bunch of kids bonding. Next thing we know, they're all trying to clean up their water tanks full of mud and miles. The water tank was full of miles. Of course, because I'm a rookie politician -- I'm a new politician -- I couldn't take a picture and show you this, it was really scary. So we clean this up twice a year. They called it. Is it so hard to build a filter system around here? That's what I'm asking Mr. Akdoğan. The same situation is bound to happen in surrounding villages. There are also such things as Üroymak, Hizan, Adil Altavaz, Tatvan, but only because I travel around here. Again, roads, water, and electricity continue in the villages of Mutki. In winter, they're powered up on average one day a week. I ask you: Who of you would like to live in such an environment? Only production and development can be done in a completed infrastructure environment. With small pond projects, we can solve the problems of dozens of villages with water problems. I guess small projects don't get credit for not having a runt. Yes, and I'd like to mention Mr. Davutoglu's statement on the AR-GE. When they came to power, Mr. Prime Minister said that the total technology development area was only two hundred and sixty-three. If only these two had been well equipped by the team and equipment and had produced something, we could have produced these at these two production centers. It's not the canteen, it's the quality. I wonder what technology has developed in this technology center. The other day, there was good news in the newspaper, and in India, someone pedaled for an hour and developed a system that provided one day of electricity for his home in the village. I wish we had little projects like this. Unfortunately, that has never been mentioned. However, we, here, defend the turd against natural gas. I don't know about that, but do you think there's power plants for turds or something? Dear MPs, the budget must be fair, accountable, transparent and manageable. With unnecessary programs and recording systems, where expenses are not seriously recorded, even the Court cannot interpret, we believe that irregularities are covered up and that a budget that cannot be explained is unprofessional and serious. So I'd like to point out that we're going to vote no for this budget that you're going to start with the name "bismillah" at the end of the year and end with "alhamdulillah" at the end of the year. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0242par0410	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. Congressmans, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the speeches are complete.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0243par0412	Mr. President, I'd like to speak of my position according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0242par0413	Now, I'm going to call the speakers of the Justice and Development Group in order... Mr. Baluken is demanding a statement. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0244par0418	Thank you. Mr. President, media freedom, a long-standing troubled area in Turkey, has been almost finished by the AKP government. Not a day goes by that we don't hear from journalists arrested for doing news, journalists who have been beaten in the middle of the street, tortured, forced to put a gun to their heads, journalists who have been censored because they've written a few opposing sentences; they've become almost routine. The fact that the screen of İMC TV has been blacked out in just the last few weeks, again Canalturk, today, is being pressured by all Turkish media institutions, particularly on TV, who are opposed to AKP (AKP). And today, according to media reports, a process of appointing trustees to Zaman newspaper has developed. Clearly, the AKP government is trying to silence all press institutions broadcasting in a different line of opposition. No matter what the political line, no matter what the ideological content and the publishing morality of the press, we find these practices that the government or the state has set out to be unacceptable, a coup to freedom of the press. The AKP government has almost made the entire Turkish area an operational area. So, political genocide operations are being conducted, mayors are being arrested, people are being massacred by military operations, operations against businessmen, capital groups, conglomerates are being seized. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0245par0423	Okay, Mr. Baluken, here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0244par0424	There's an operation on press institutions, the literature's being blacked out, those institutions are being shut down. Now, while I was making this announcement, I received news that Mr. Mirgun Cabas had also been terminated. It's really something to be condemned for. We've been saying that since June 7th, as the People's Democratic Party, there's been a concept of coup and the mind of coup, and that's what we've come up with. I mean, it's a coup to try to force and suppress and silence all different and opposing groups with the power of the state that you have. I'd like to point out from here that we once again condemn this sense of impact. I call on both the Palace and the AKP government for freedom of the press to give up this wrong attitude.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0245par0425	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2014 CIRCLE AND VICTIMAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND DETECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the first speaker is İstanbul MP Smurf Ünal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Ünal, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0246par0465	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the budget of our National Ministry of Defense regarding the Central Management Budget Bill for 2016 and the Central Management Act for 2014. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, our National Ministry of Defense has made many improvements during the AK PARTY administrations. The military term, reduced from 18 months to 15 months in 2003, was reduced to a reasonable period of 12 months two years ago. The 35th amendment of the Civil Service Law, which has provided the basis for military coups that have resulted in Turkey's history as a black mark in the past, has been changed to prevent military custody. The definition of military service is: "Soldiership is the burden of learning and doing the art of war. " The political-military relationship has been redacted. In this context, members of the Turkish Armed Forces have been completely excluded from politics. The cell punishment for Mehmet was lifted, the military branch was removed from military parliaments, which had been held for short periods of time by the military branch's presidency, the first roll call and backup checks have been removed, and it is not available to be given by the interim health board, which consists of disabled, disabled, bedridden, limb loss, which is visible in places without a military hospital. It is not suitable for those with reports of transfer delays or determined to leave property in the following year by the head of the military branch and the interim medical body. The roll call has been extended, and depending on that, the number of roll call fugitives has been reduced. Petty Officers have been allowed to rise to the first degree. During or after finishing military service, it is possible that those who have finished colleges or universities will become contracting petty officers or officers. In 2011 and 2014, the cost-effective military laws were passed and the expectations of our citizens were met. Over 70,000 of our citizens have taken advantage of the first price law and more than 200,000 of the second, and the revenues that have been obtained have been reserved for martyr families and relatives of the veterans, and some for investments in our defence industry. Precious MPs, Turkey is no longer the former Turkey, its strong Turkey; its renovated, productive defence industry, and its powerful armies have become the envy of many Middle East and European countries. Thanks to the confidence that our country and our nation have acquired, Turkey has been able to produce ALTAY tanks, MILGEM warships, ATAK attack helicopters, drones, communications satellites, national infantry rifles, sensitive guidance kits, some air defence missiles, and many more defence equipment. Dear lawmakers, I would like to say to the traitors who have been trying to disrupt our brotherhood on this land for a thousand years that our Turkish Armed Forces and Security forces, guaranteed the integrity and security of their homeland, will continue to fight with every kind of terror. The Turkish Armed Forces will continue to serve as heroes without division of race, religion and region for our citizens to live in prosperity, peace and security. To all our citizens, soldiers, police, civilians, who have been martyred in the fight against terrorism, I wish you God's mercy and my condolences to your relatives. I give my best and best wishes and thanks to our heroic veterans. Also, I resent serving under the same roof as an MP who took the attack on Ankara on February 17th and dared to attend the condolences of a traitor terrorist who killed 29 of our lives. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I consider the immediate removal of the immunity of the parliamentary hearings from the General Assembly by lawmakers, who carry weapons, ammunition and support our nation, and encourage rebellion. I hereby wish you all the blessings of the $26.5 billion budget of our National Defense Ministry. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit03spe0247par0477	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0247par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks on the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Act. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The second word on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group belongs to Mr. Faruk Özlü. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, Your Grace. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0248par0009	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Defense Undersecretary's budget. I salute the General Assembly. The Defence Industry Undersecretary is an institution with the Turkish Armed Forces on one side and defence industries on the other, with a very strategic position. I mean, on one hand, it's the Defense Industry Undersecretary, which has the task of arming the Turkish Armed Forces with modern military equipment, which has a mandate to lead the Turkish defence industry with more than 32,000 employees and more than $5 billion in turn. This location is one of Turkey's top institutions, due to the strategic importance of its qualified staff and projects. This exclusive and special position of the Undersecretary comes from the fact that whatever there is about modern military equipment in the Turkish Armed Forces inventory today has either directly or indirectly contributed to all of it. Today, more than 400 projects are being conducted within the Defense Industry Undersecretary. About 300 of these 400 projects were launched during our time in the period of the EC PARTY. The total price of contracts signed by the Undersecretary until now is 41 billion dollars. About $30 billion of this $41 billion project was signed again during the EC PARTY. Last year, the Defense Industry Undersecretary, which is 57 million euros in administrative budget, spent 4.5 billion dollars on projects. There are about 880 staff members in the service of the Undersecretary, under contract, staff and consultant status. As an EC PARTY, we have performed the most important firsts in the history of the republic through the work of this institution. Turkey's first design of its own tank, its own design, its first drone, the ANCA, its own design, and its own design, the first warship, the MILGEM, through the selfless work of the very valued staff of this institution. As the EC PARTY, we have put Turkey ahead of defence and security technologies, and for that, technology production is among our strategic goals and priorities. We first put this into practice in the defence industry, and we supported it with the apps of "offset." Last year we spent $800 million on defense RD projects. In 2002, two patents were available, while in 2015 the number reached 59. In the last 13 years, we've made a structural transformation in the defence industry. We've restored a reverse system. Instead of foreign companies, we've identified domestic firms as the main contractor. We've transformed the defense industry from a production structure to a design and engineering structure. Now we're talking about systems that are our own designs, that we call them. We've got two Turkish firms in the world's top 100 defense firms. In terms of defence spending, Turkey is below the world average, despite being thought to be defence spending. In fact, it is below the 2 per cent limit recommended by NATO. I think Turkey needs a comprehensive defence reform in three main areas, including defence management, military organization and defence industry in the following process. We need to build a fast and efficient supply and logistics system. We need to simplify the Defense Industry Support Fund resources and fund management. We need to consider a structure like the DE&S in England, the BWB in Germany, the DGA in France. With these wishes, I salute your grand delegation, wishing the defense industry's 2016 budget to be good for our nation.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0249par0021	Thank you, Your Grace. The third speaker is İstanbul MP Hasan Sert. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0250par0026	Mr. President and the esteemed MPs, I salute you all with love and respect. I bless our fellow soldiers, police, and civil servants who have been killed by terror. I'm here to announce my views on the 2016 budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. When we look at the 2016 central management budget, we estimate that our expenses are around $570.5 billion, and our revenues are around $540.8 billion, and the budget deficit is 29.6 billion. Besides, we've already learned that the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology grant is around $4.3 billion. Of course, when we do these budgets, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, which general managers, what activities they do with them, the Turkish Patent Institute of Sciences, the Turkish Academy of Sciences, the Institute of COSGEB, ÜBITAK, the Institute of Turkish Standards, the Candy Foundation, the General Directorate of Industry, the General Directorate of Industrial Development and Control, the Office of Science and Technology, the General Directorate of Metrology and Standardization, and the General Directorate of European Union and Foreign Relations are working in a coordinated way to make the launches of Turkey's Department of Sciences and Industry. Precious lawmakers, there is an extraordinary volume of trade among the world's 206 world countries, and in the volume of about 75-76 trillion dollars, Turkey's share is about 0.86 per cent. So we have to increase the volume of trade that doesn't even 1 per cent to 1.5 per cent, 2 per cent. There's two ways to get this out. One of them is that Turkey has to change the product concept of products that it produces, it has to produce more qualified, more innovative, more quality, more quality, and more quality, and it has to increase the amount of products and exports and run to new markets and go to all over the world and sell our products. In doing so, we have to watch and remember the circulation of Turkey's arrivals. Turkey's exports in 1981 amounted to about $4.5 billion in 2002, at $36 billion in 2014, at $157 billion. With a slight turbulence in 2015, although there was no decline in exports and kilograms, there seems to be a drop in dollars because of the quality of the world markets, but there is a satisfactory conclusion that our industrial product has a high share in the general trade. In another way, when we look at our exports, the weight of the medium and high-tech products we export is $4.5, the weight of high-tech products is $34, the average price of the machines we export is $7, the average price of the machines we import is $13. From here it looks like Turkey sells cheap, buys expensive. We must certainly increase and reverse this concept within the policies of the Ministry of Science and Industry or as a result of Turkey's policies. There's something in the pharmaceutical industry that's different and growing against us, and we see that there's a little bit more in the aircraft industry and sensitive technologies. We have to change that. In particular, the proportion of low-tech products in our general trade is 35 percent; the share of medium low-tech products is 29.5%; the share of medium high-tech products is 31.8%; our share of high-tech products is 3.7%. It also shows that we, in Western European countries and in America, in Japan, have to produce high-tech products that are over 20 percent of the population, and from 3.5 per cent to 10 per cent of the band. Mr. President and valued lawmakers, I've watched a little bit of the meetings held in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, on this side of the General Assembly from June 7th, and I've been engaged in work for budget talks for the past eight days in particular, and I'd like to point out some of the negatives I've detected here. I wish some of our MPs would stay away from a conflicting language. I'd like to say that I don't think it's right for some of our MPs to get too involved in extracurricular conversations. Again, I'd like to point out that I'm uncomfortable and condemning the fact that some of our lawmakers are giving encouraging speeches to terrorism. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation, wishing our budget to be blessed.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0251par0037	Thank you, Mr. Hard. The fourth speaker is Gaziantep MP Abdullah Nejat Koçer. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0252par0042	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology of 2016. I salute you all. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to convey my compassion, gratitude, and gratitude to all of our martyrs, Corporal Muhammad Montenegro, who died in the treacherous attacks in Şırnak and Nusaybin, who died today in Gaziantep. I curse terror and its supporters. I salute all our soldiers and policemen on duty, who are operating all over our country, who are on guard, and who are on duty, from the stand of the nation; may God increase your strength. We work for our country and our nation in an understanding of the mindset that is trying to divide, kill, and create chaos, creating, living, raising the welfare of its citizens. Dear lawmakers, the world is moving towards a new industrial revolution called 4.0. Production models change, labor becomes digital technology. It is a pleasure that Turkey did not watch this change and transformation. Our RD spending is over $15 billion. For the first time in history, the rate of R&amp;D's national income has exceeded 11%. Turkey is now exporting high-tech products, adding value to high-end products. RD, innovation, design and branding are on our nation's agenda. The reason for all this is very clear: we desire to give our country and citizens a greater prosperity. Turkey deserves it. The world is growing and growing rapidly, even though there's been an economic recession on a global scale. To adapt to this rapid change and development, Turkey has to make a new leap. Our export reached 144 billion dollars. Is that enough? It's not. Our 2023 target is, hopefully, $500 billion. Our GDP is $822 billion. Is that enough? No. Target is $2 trillion. The per capita income has reached the level of $11,000. Is that enough? Of course it's not enough. Let's hope the target is $25,000. R&amp;amp;&amp;gt; The R&amp;amp;amp;&amp;gt;The R&amp;amp;amp;&amp;gt;The The target is 3%, dear friends. Dear lawmakers, we appreciate how much the Ministry of Industry cares about science, project production, and domesticity in its projects. His projects for the domestic automotive sector, renewable energy production, defence industry, space technology; these projects, RD, innovation, design, are exciting and flattering. Turkey is changing, it values innovation now. Turkey's number of R&D personnel has reached 11,000, the number of techno parks has reached 61, R&D headquarters 192, and the number of technology transfer offices has reached 34. We're growing up fast. We're on the fast track to becoming an RD project-making country. Enterprises are supported in all areas. It is important for our COSGEBs to provide 351m liras to 38,000 entrepreneurs last year through COSGEB, to support this initiative and the future of our SMEs. So far, 187 registered geographical markers are Turkey's largest wealth. The Gaziantep baklava, our most important geographical sign, is the first Turkish product registered by the European Union, an important achievement for our country.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0253par0051	Nejat Bey, we're waiting.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0252par0052	I hope... Turkey is the second in Europe in design and application growth, and the world is the fifth in the world. With more than 110,000 applications for brands, the first in Europe is the sixth in the world. There's a huge increase in patents every year, increasing by about 15 per cent every year. Our working and producing industrial area has reached 188. Dear lawmakers say that our country is modelled in industrialization, that the largest organised industrial areas in Turkey are the city of Gaziantep, which has been head of the Industrial Chamber for many years, and has run many R-Ge, innovation and branding projects for the production and employment of the city, and I respectfully salute you all for the future of our industrial ministry's performance and projects.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0254par0056	Thank you, Mr. Coacher. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the fifth speaker is Giresun MP Cemal Özturk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0255par0060	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak on behalf of our group over the budget of our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology in 2016. I salute your honorable committee. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology serves every part of our society in order to ensure technological transformation in production and to establish policies that will boost our international competitiveness. The heart wants us to be able to talk about all of these services here, but you can appreciate that that's not possible in five minutes. So I'd like to bring up a few things that I consider important. One of them is the local automobile project, which our Ministry has pioneered, and I would like to say that as a man who has worked for the automotive industry, I am very excited about this project. Hopefully, soon, we'll be able to use the local automobile that belongs to our country, all the test property rights. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the important steps our governments take in the industry is in the sectors of industry. Filyos, Ceyhan and Karapınar Energy Ehtisas Industries were established, and Karasu Automotive İhtisas Industries and Niğde Bor Energy Ehtisas Industries were declared industrial zones, which I am also pleased to state as a person who has worked for the automotive industry. By the way, I'd like to point out that it would be a very good decision to establish a special area of industry in the eastern Black Sea region, especially the province of Giresun, which is also a product of industry. As is known, Giresun is the capital of nuts, and nuts have a very important share in our agricultural production and food industry. We all know our government is implementing the RD reform package. Private sector companies who want to conduct research and development and innovation activities within their own bodies are granted a certificate of research development. Twenty-five thousand people are still employed at 238 research development centers. The number of R&D projects conducted at these centers is 4,523. The number of patent applications is 3,729, and 1,030 of them are attached to the document. The number of personnel needed to build research and development centers has been reduced from 50 to 30 in the time of our governments, which has been particularly useful to our medium-sized industrialists. As a result, the Ministry issued 24 R&D Central Documents in 2014, while the number of documents issued in 2015 increased by about 3 times to 67. In the RD reform package, the design centre has also been provided with all support and exemptions from the RD centers. The number of staff needed to build an RD center has been opened to reduce to 15 ▪ for specific sectors. The gross minimum wage of graduates, which will be employed in RD and design centres, is covered by the state for two years. The income and stamp tax cuts from the activities of our university-investigators in co-operation activities have been terminated, and their share of return capital has been increased from 54 per cent to 85 per cent, which, as a former academic, I would like to say is extremely important. I congratulate all Ministry employees, especially Mr. Fikri Il Bey, who has made many more of the services here that I can't count on due to the lack of time, and I salute your honorary committee with the best of our budget.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0256par0069	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. The sixth speaker is Mr. Mustafa Baloglu. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0257par0074	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. I salute you all. Advanced countries have predictions of their own futures, socioeconomic goals. The most effective tool used to achieve predicted targets is science, technology, and industrial competence. To maintain the superiority of the human structure that technology brings, it requires a fully qualified labor force from the top to the bottom. In the 21st century, the skills of the labor force will be the main weapon of competition. Brain power will create new technologies, but the ability to produce these technologies at low cost will be a skilled labor force with arms and legs. In the race for superiority of countries, many factors, such as having natural resources, have begun to lose importance, and people have taken the lead. Japan, which has an advanced economy, has closed the gap with its imports, even though it lacks raw materials and energy, and is seen to have a key role in the creation of a systemic and stable protective policies that it has implemented in the early stages of its development, as soon as it moves towards exports, it has a ready and developed industry and management infrastructure in its hands. In the early stages of its development, Japan was in a position for international competition through many activities such as baby industrial protection policies, incentive loans, domestic tax practices for the producer's benefit and the creation of sound institutional infrastructure. Japan has guided Asia, known as the Asian tigers. If two countries, such as Japan and Germany, have been defeated by world war, whose countries have been destroyed, whose imports and exports have been seized, their great compensations have been seized, and they have been one of the largest economies in the world in a very short time, it would be in the best interest of our nation if we, with our young population, with our natural resources, with our three sides surrounded by the sea, and with our hard-working people in our present position, complete our unity and improve our country's prosperity. For many years, Turkey has only borrowed outdated technologies to import science. Today, the main problem of all developing countries is that they are unable to make progress with their current resources. Furthermore, the problem of intergalactic imbalances is seen in some developed countries, such as in developing countries, even within the borders of our country. Development is not only about increasing production and per capita income, but also about changing economic and social structures, which means renovating. Development means that a society has reached a certain level of life economic, social and culturally. In 2023, for Turkey to enter and reach the top 10 economies of the world, a scientific energy potential should be created that will feed advanced technology practices across the country, a more specific scientific and continuity in our educational system, and that potential should be transformed into an efficiency-oriented kinetic energy in agriculture, industry, service and public sectors. Otherwise, no matter how zealous and talented public and private sector employees are, it will be a utopia that only with certain monetary and financial policies will our country gain considerable status in the world markets and reach a happy and honorable level of life for our people. In order to achieve this development as EC PARTY governments, we set ambitious goals for the year 2023, which coincided with the 100th year of our republic. Among them, entering into the world's top 10 major economies by reaching 2 trillion dollars in national revenues, raising our exports to 500 billion dollars, becoming the Eurasia's production base in medium and high-tech products, raising the share of high-tech products within our production and exports to 20 percent, some of the goals we've set up are to increase the 3 per cent of RD spending to the 3 per cent. To fulfill their 2023 goals, our ministries, particularly the ministries related to the economy, have been redeveloped, and our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology has been renewed for this purpose. The new structure of our ministry has been shaped for the first time in our country to further deepen the relationship and integration of science, technology and industry to meet our government's 2023 goals. In this new structure, institutions such as TÜBA and TÜBITAK, which are related to our ministry's activities as part of its duties, are among the relevant institutions of our Ministry. On this occasion, I kiss our glorious soldier, our police, who is now fighting terror organizations and traitors in the southeast and east, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0258par0084	Thank you, Mr. Baloglu. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the seventh speaker is Elazig MP Metin Bulut. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, please.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0259par0088	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the budget of the President of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration (KOSGEB). I salute the High Council and our beloved nation. In 1990, KOSGEB, established by Law 3624, was founded to increase the proportion and efficiency of the KOBI and social needs of the country, boost competitiveness, increase their share in economic and social development. As of the end of 2002, the number of businesses registered in the database reached 822,385, as of 2015. In 2002, 24 cities have a KOSGEB service centre, while in 2015, KOSGEB service centres serve 88 locations in 81 cities. There are eight supports for COSGEB (KoSGEB) that it currently has for the KOBI (KoSGEB). These are the AR-Ge, Innovation and Industrial Application Support Programme; Co-operation-Strong Support Programme, General Support Programme, Enterprise Support Programme, Development Market COBI Support Programme, Contact Project Support Programme, COBI Project Support Programme, International Incubation Centre and Accelerator Support Program. These supports continue in 81 districts. I'd like to give an example of these benefits through my own knowledge. ==History======Early life=======Early life======Early life=====Early life=====Early life======Early life=====Early life======Early life=====Early life======Early life=====Early life was founded on KOSGEB 2010. In Elazığ, there were $16m,367,455 euros, $2,885,139, totaling $19,252,594 in support. If we think about how much support has been given at a city level, we will see how much the contribution that KOSGEB has been made throughout Turkey. However, in order for this support and services to continue, political stability must continue because the economy's greatest enemy is uncertainty. Unfortunately, lately, Mr. President and his family have been trying to wear out lies and slanders by being on the agenda at every opportunity. When it comes to smearing our President, it makes sense for all opposition to use the same language as if it had been colloquialized, to speak in the same words. The coalition of those called "never meeting" is called "Recep Tayyip Erdogan's opposition." Of course, this isn't the first time we've seen this game. Let us remember that Adnan Menderes was made to pay for this country with his enmity, and Turgut Özal was made to pay for it, and they made him pay for it by the blow of Erbakan, the deceased, on February 28th, postmodern. In the same way, for 14 years, Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been asked to pay the price to this country. Those who tried to massacre our president, those who tried to undermine our Prime Minister, think that in this way, the address of stability could drown the EC PARTY on their own unnecessary agendas, but they are absolutely wrong. Our recent political history is filled with the destruction of this obsessive delusion. The common sense of the nation is constant in the face of every conspiracy and slander. Lo! they are the chiefs. You can't be stubborn with people. People love our President and Prime Minister, you have to respect what people love. Indeed, those who transgressed for 14 years without tiring, the people have given the best answer in the chest, and if Allah should will, He will give it to them. I salute you all with respect, with conversation.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0260par0098	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. The eighth speaker, Kastamonu MP Murat Demir, please come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0261par0102	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group over the Turkish Institute of Standards budget of 2016. I salute our holy nation, our high council. Before I begin my speech, the Turkish nation will stand tall in the face of a bloody terror organization that wants to darken the future of our country, and our martyrs will be questioned, of course. On this occasion, two of our soldiers who were killed yesterday in Idil, two of our police officers who were killed in Nusaybin today, I wish them God's mercy, and our families and our nation's patience. The Institute of Turkish Standards is the key to the higher production of Turkish industry at less cost, the efficient continuation of innovation activities, the introduction of international markets in accordance with international standards. As a result of TSE studies, the national synthesis has been adapted from the standard and foreign institutions to more than 35,000. In many areas, such as energy systems and energy efficiency, renewable energy, biogenetics, food and chemistry, the TSE provides a national and internationally-accredited service from 1.757 methods, with very important labs. Dear friends, Turkish industry and industry began to take part in production, both in Turkey and internationally, over 13 years, representing Turkey's brand with pride and pride and pride on the world market. Especially as an industrialist who lived in difficult conditions before 2002, we can see and be proud of our industry -- which had no place in the world market in those days -- today, as of 2016 -- of our industry in the world, even our world-leading industry. Sure, I'm an industrialist. As someone who's swallowed the dust of that environment since he was 12 years old, on that bench, maybe never visited any industrial facility, what's going on in this country, what's going on, what's going on, what's being produced, what's being produced, what's not being witnessed, but who's writing disaster scenarios for the Turkish industry as an industrialist, unfortunately, and I'm amazed and surprised to hear it. Members of lawmakers, the number of industrial companies that are taking on the most important burden of employment, offering the most serious contribution to exports is increasing day by day. In this country, there are companies in their own sector who have escaped from the world's giants and accepted their brand to the world, produced machines and equipment, and exported 70 per cent of its production to China. Since 2008, the rational policies of our industry, our Ministry, our government, have been effective throughout the world, despite the crises in the global economy, in Turkey's growth. To see this situation, we can just take the heads out of the sand and look at it from a wide range of angles, and make sure we can see what's going on. In 2002, more than $1 billion exported were 5 cities and 15 cities in 2015. In 2002, more than $100 million exports reached 51 in 2015. In 2002, we had 31,731 exporters, while 2015 reached 62,750. Dear friends, I have experienced those days outside the country where we barely went out to introduce ourselves before 2002, when we were closed doors by firms, and I can't forget those days. Today, those doors are very easy for us industrialists. This is because a strong, stable Turkey exists. Dear friends, as someone who has lived in person, not looking at data, I say now, especially in terms of interest, interest, and dignity that we've had when we've been abroad for the last thirteen years, because I know very well that the most important thing in the world is the reputations of people and countries that can never be bought with money. It is our leader, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our president, our Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, the AK PARTI power and its strong staff that brings our party to power by voting. I want to thank our people, wish them the best of our budget in 2016, and salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0262par0113	Thank you, Mr. Iron. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the ninth speaker is İzmir MP Kerem Ali Constant. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Constant, your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0263par0118	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I salute our Prime Minister, our ministers, who perform Friday prayer today at Cleopatra. And I give thanks to the people of Silopi, who have embraced them, and I salute them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] By the way, I thank and thank the locals who did not comply with the provocative calls of Diyarbakır. Again, as always, they have taken their place with the country and the nation, thank you, and may they exist. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I have made a commitment to the Turkish Patent Institute's budget for 2016. What is the Turkish Patent Institute? It is an institution where property rights are registered. What are these probationary property rights? Brands are design and patents. In this field, as in every field, there have been major developments in 13 years. Look, I'll tell you in numbers: there were 414 patent applications in 2002, and there were 5,512 patent applications in 2015. As for the brand, we are already the European country with the most brand applications since 2011. Compared to 2002, the number of brand applications made in 2002 was 36,426, and the number of brand applications made in 2015 was 110,679. As for design: The number of applications made in 2002 is 20,302, and the number of applications made in 2015 is 40,306; there is an enormous increase. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the same way, we see the institutional development of the Turkish Patent Institute, and we observe it. The number of experts has increased 3.5 times in the last five years. Again, when we look at the budget, the Turkish Patent Institute's budget is 10 million 800 in 2002, and the budget we envisioned in 2016 is 62 million 157. This shows how the Turkish Patent Institute has improved institutionally. Yeah, what's in front of us? We're bringing in a draft of the experimental property law. Mr. Minister works, works at the Turkish Patent Institute, works at our Ministry. Together, as in the RD Act, we've made this RD Act with contributions to the House, and with contributions, we're going to make this law. I'm pointing out an important arrangement to be brought here -- and the process is ending -- and I'm going to make a very important determination: we're going to bring in geographical signs, which will contribute to regional development. As we speak from the Patent Institute, I would like to make a statement as a symbol of salvation, also a member of the province of Izmir, which has a patent for tolerance. The other day, Tuncay Özkan of the Republican People's Party, one of our Izmir MPs, gave a very beautiful, most of which I attended, compromiseive, constructive speech, and we thank you. At the same time, our deputy again, our AK PARTY MP Huseyin Big Brother, thanked him from Twitter. This is how, as Izmir MPs, we will open the way for a new constitution with such initiatives and compromises in parliament. We need a new constitution, we need a compromise, we need unity and unity. I wanted to look at it in a positive way. Of course, there are a lot of things that bother us, but I don't want to talk about it anymore after this beautiful conversation. Come, let's all agree, unite, and make efforts together for a strong future in the new Turkey. I expect this from this great House, and I keep my hopes for the future, I'm more hopeful than yesterday. I hope the Turkish Patent Institute budget for 2016 is a blessing. My compliments to all of you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0264par0134	Thank you, Mr. Constant.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0265par0135	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0264par0136	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0265par0137	Mr. President, during his orator talks, there should be no second Cizre violence in Sur. He called our party's call as a provocation call, and we'd like to respond to it. Ahmet Yıldırım will answer.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0264par0139	Here you go, Mr. Lightning. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0266par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, look, for two or three days, our co-Chair has made a very clear statement, especially when he calls the people in Diyarbakir to march towards Tyre, but he is being distorted by the ruling party oratories. ▪ Walk to Tyre as part of a civil disobedience act that will never harm anyone's life or property.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0267par0146	That's what happened on October 6th, right?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0268par0147	50 dead, 50 dead!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0266par0148	I'm speaking as someone who was in Diyarbakır on Wednesday. So, what you understand about massism is that someone has to die with the bullets of security forces?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0269par0149	October 6th, 7th...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0266par0150	He obeyed the call of the president, of the vineyards, of Yenişehir, of Kayapınar, of the street, if he had not answered the call of the President General...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0270par0151	He didn't!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0266par0152	...why did you bring 1,500 police from the outside, stack 10,000 security forces around Tyre and turn Diyarbakir's top with thousands of gas flares into a cloud of gas? If no one was here, did you bother him or the Prime Minister come out and pray at the silopi, and God willing...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0271par0154	Amen!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0266par0155	...why do you interpret the wife general's prayers at Sumer Park in Diyarbakir as political? Open up, by an impartial press agency, and see that there is no one except the security army around you who attends the Friday prayer in Silvio.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0272par0156	Take care of the pictures!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0273par0157	Look at the pictures! You're not ashamed!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0266par0158	...and look at the prayer with thousands of people in Tyre.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0273par0159	Aren't those Kurds with you?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0266par0160	... After that, don't try to create a perception here by taking credit for the news of the pool and the mud media.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0274par0161	Why does that picture bother you?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0266par0162	If your understanding of mass action is indiscriminate interference, then there's no such call. I want to thank the people of Diyarbakir for their sensitivity and maturity.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0275par0164	Don't play three monkeys, three monkeys!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0276par0165	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2014 CIRCLE AND VICTIMAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND DETECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the tenth speaker is Mr. Yasin Aktay. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0277par0206	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party to discuss the Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Foundation. Of course, at the beginning of my words, I wish to thank God and to our fallen soldiers and policemen who lost their lives in a terrorist attack by a violent terrorist organization -- violent, murderous, homicidal, inhuman -- yesterday in Idil. The pain is the pain of all of us, of course. It's just that even for days, or rather, ever since this House opened up, I've been telling us that every day these lies come to us, as if the government is waging war on people for no reason, as if they were flying planes over Wall for no reason, as if they were flying a number of planes over the people, there exhibiting innocent, civil disobedience, trying to reflect them as a state's inadequacy, that's all I'm saying. (EC PARTY Applause) So I'm really, I'm sure that while our people are watching their television -- which is reflected in the news -- they're watching with such awe. So, friends, as the Justice and Development Party, we have done everything in our power to make sure that everyone in this country, let alone blood since the day we came to power, was able to use their democratic rights to the fullest, with great sincerity, and at the cost of drinking the hemlocking poison. The criticism that we didn't take because our President had expressed it with great courage, was blasphemy, but it was a risk, of course, a political risk. To stop the blood, to cool the hearts of the mothers, to make the mothers weep, to make the fathers weep. It was a great risk, and we took the risk, and we took the risk. But what did the other side do? It doesn't matter what the other side does. He's a terrorist, and we know very well that there's no trust in the terrorist organization in any way. In whose name, we see the subcontractor very clearly today. In the name of whom, it is very clear that everyone sees what is fighting in our territory, in front of all of us, and unfortunately, here, as if the government is doing these operations where they don't exist... it's truly infuriating, I'm sorry, dear friends. I mean, there's nothing in this House that you can't say, and you can come and say everything on this stand, and you can even lie. That's where you can express all your slanders, our state, our soldiers, our nation, all sorts of slanders. What more do you want? What couldn't we have said is, what is it about these acts of terror that the terrorist organization has done? I'd really like to believe your sincerity. I don't expect you to go back and tell one-tenth of what you told the soldier, or one-tenth, or more; turn around and tell a Kandil, and tell a terrorist organization: What are we doing in politics here, and what's your weapon there? Guys, that gun is a gun that's been fired on my own citizen. Today, when that terror organization came and intervened in my Siirt, my Diyarbakır, my Tyre, that land is my land, the land of the Republic of Turkey, the land of all of us. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) In this land, we, all of us... Look, in our geography, the Kurds now own, live, feel, live in this country, not more than Iran, Syria, Iraq, the freedom they never used, the personality they never had, the freedom they didn't have anywhere else. This is nothing but a trial that you are trying to make. So, here, come on, let's be honest. Be honest, turn around, and say to Kandil, "This gun is a treacherous weapon. We don't need this gun. If it's politics, we're doing politics here. Basically, what Kandil is doing is putting you out of a job. What you're doing here right now is unfortunately... look at the level that Turkey's democracy has come to right now that it can tolerate so much conversation. In fact, you need to learn a lesson from this, and you need to learn a lesson from this. Yes, Turkey's politics has reached that maturity in every way, and there's a Parliament where everything can be talked about. I mean, remember, who got kicked out of this House, how they got fired under what circumstances. How did our Merve Karakçı be expelled from this House? How'd you get the beat? And he didn't do anything, he did what he had to do. The most natural thing is that in a Muslim country, he tried to enter a Muslim country with a headscarf, nothing else. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But what you're doing right now is a word for it, and I can't say anything else.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0278par0212	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0279par0213	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0278par0214	I guess there's no need to tell the others. Don't make fun of me.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0279par0215	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0280par0216	What's with the teasing? Put the gun down. He said, "Don't defend the gun."
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0278par0217	Can't you hear? Aren't you listening? Are you out of your mind? (sing) Hold on to all manner of insults (sing)
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0281par0218	Why are you offended?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0278par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. The master has a good saying...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0282par0224	Do you know the subject?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0278par0225	I don't want to get into that right now, but let me get this straight. I'm going to leave you all to appreciate the criteria and criteria of integrity and authenticity of a man who brings me the blessings of a leader of a political party. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now here's the solution... And I say the word of the lord, that I may not go in there, that I may not make it hard.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0283par0230	You don't know the master!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0284par0231	At least don't mess with the master!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0278par0232	Let me tell you about the end of this solution process. You're always talking about July. Look, I've done chronology for you. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] If you listen to this chronology without teasing.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0285par0235	But don't make a nuisance of yourself!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0278par0236	Look, March 7th, months before July, Erdogan: give me 400 deputies, and let this be resolved in peace. On March 22, Erdoğan: I don't know the meeting there either. I mean Dolmabahçe denies the agreement. March 27th, the Homeland Security Act, the legal basis for today's terrorist practices; April 11th, the provocation of Pain Diyadin, 3 people lost their lives. On April 5, there is no armed attack on Mr. Ocalan; on April 18, HDP headquarters; on April 28, Erdoğan: There is no table facing him in the process of solution; on May 5, Akdoğan: If he stays under the dam, it will be a great problem for democracy to cross the dam.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0286par0237	What's the big deal? It's political!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0278par0238	May 18th, Adana and Mersin bombing; May 22, Erdoğan: June 7th will be a fracture. (July 17th, Erdoğan: I will never accept a study called Dolmabahçe. (July 29th, Akdoğan: ▪ He blew up the process by crossing the dam.; Davutoglu, July 30th: The HDP will answer for that.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0287par0239	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0286par0240	What does that have to do with anything? Look at the murders, the massacres, the mercy! He asked me to account for the massacres.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0278par0242	August 15th, Erdoğan: Whether you accept it or not, the management system has actually changed. (; 16 August, Müezzinoğlu: "This would not have happened if he had been elected President of Erdoğan."; 16 August, Erdoğan said: "This fight will continue until the end of the day." Now you see who finished the solution process, everything in the middle. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0288par0246	He asked you, speak of Kandil, Kandil.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0289par0247	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0290par0248	Mr. Aktay, please.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0289par0249	Mr. President, he's made an attempt to personalize me. Mr. Erdogan, I'd like to say...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0290par0250	No bullying for you, Mr. Aktay.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0291par0252	He brought Salavat. He said.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0289par0253	There is, there is; he brought Salavat. He said.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0292par0254	You didn't bring it? It's in the footage.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0293par0255	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0289par0258	Yes, Mr. President, of course, we're starting to call it rashness, we're going on, it's starting to sink. Now, here, of course, he's repeated a perception that the parallel media heats up and spreads about me, and we already know that they're in cahoots. But it also shows how foreign this country is to the culture, to the faith of this nation. Yes, if a name called Idris Bauken pisses me off, I'll say it's Muhammad. It is such a thing that when we face any situation in the area where the Arabs are very busy, our Siirt, Diyarbakır, Mardin, we say, when we are faced with a situation that makes us happy or sad or angry or angry, we pass by. To avoid anger, we all say that to a common common sense to calm down, but you're so foreign... Yes, when we call it Tayip Erdogan, it's one of the best things that ever happened to this country.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0294par0260	So you're saying we'll bring salabut. You're bringing him in.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0289par0261	When we see him as a leader, one of the most beautiful events, we call him Muhammad. But when I look at you, I call you Muhammad. This doesn't mean I bless you, and when we say about Mr. Erdogan, it doesn't mean we bless him, it's just our culture. If you were a little bit familiar with our culture, you wouldn't come up with a claim like that here, but your manual is parallel media, of course. We're all witnessing what happened to the parallel media guide. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Second, another point, you said you were threatened, attacked. In the election event, I wish you'd only heard that my election bus, my election van, was attacked at least 20 times in a month. Your party's youth and children's organizations in Siirt. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So if you call it child abuse, there's a separate child abuse. You'll also see that 12-13-year-old boys are throwing stones at my election van and my friends' election vans and making them impossible to move. You only see what's done to you, and there's nothing done to you. It's the least you can do. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0295par0268	With ambulance bullets, yours is a zakat.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0296par0269	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0297par0270	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0296par0271	So he's been picking on me again, targeting myself, and I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0298par0273	He just answered.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0297par0274	Mr. Baluken, two more minutes, but no more teasing, please.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0296par0276	In fact, I have no intention of prolonging this discussion because of this:
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0299par0277	You don't know the man.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0296par0278	I'll look at a word, see if it's a word, see if it's a man.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0300par0279	Boo!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0296par0280	So, I had no intention of answering it, but he had to come up here and answer because he was lying about the obvious contradictions.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0301par0281	Look in the mirror, in the mirror.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0296par0282	Now, you're already contradicting yourself. First you don't get a free pass, you call it the service of the parallel media, and then I look at you and I say the same thing. You bring it to me, so you accept what you're doing. Now, in terms of cooperation with these parallel media, no one of us, no politician, including myself, has given any part of this parallel structure a parcel of any city. Again, any politician or co-Chair of us would come out and ask for this parallel structure and not give it to you? He did not say. Again, any politician of ours came out, arm in arm with this parallel structure, and he didn't arrest 10,000 politicians, the mayor, the city councilman, you're the one who did all this. After you've done all this, you come in here and accuse someone of cooperating with the parallel, and you don't leave room for another sentence. Your condition, your sincerity is already visible from here. As for the attacks on your election efforts, we have condemned any member of the AK PARTY in the local election work as an attack on the electoral campaign. And if we have any information about getting in front of him in the local area, if something's happened to our contributor, we've tried to stop it. But you know, with a couple of kids throwing rocks at a bus, burning down a party headquarters, taking care of it in over 400 places, killing people in the street... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you put it in the same shroud, I'm sorry, you'll never be credible there, and no one will ever believe what you're saying. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0302par0289	Mr. Idris, about the parallel, Ocalan will beat you. Abdullah Ocalan will beat you up about the parallel, and if he hears you, he'll chase you all with a stick.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0303par0290	Sir, there's teasing.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0304par0291	Mr. Aktay, tell me from there for the record.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0303par0292	He was a bully, no, but look, the guy you call a man?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0305par0293	You're not a man. He said.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0306par0294	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0307par0295	Well, here you go, that's fine by me. I'll give you two minutes, whoever wants it. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0308par0299	Yes, he's not a man.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0309par0300	Bring a blessing, Hajji, a blessing.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0308par0301	I'll take that as a simple blasphemy, a statement I don't see fit for the bench of this House.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0310par0302	The word of the ruler is in all things.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0311par0303	You wouldn't be like this if you knew the master!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0310par0304	You go and know the master! You think you own a monopoly? Who are you?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0312par0305	But I'll tell you this: yes, I've accepted it, I've sung a song like that, I've sung a song like that, it's very beautiful, it's very beautiful, it's a beautiful song that you can learn from if you listen to it a little bit, it's a beautiful song that you can learn from, it's not an idiot. Parallel media has taken it, as if I had said, "Salli," he tried to launch it like that, and he foamed at it, and you went over that foaming, and everybody's gone.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0313par0307	They jumped right in.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0312par0308	In fact, I wrote a newspaper article. I've already explained that very well in my newspaper article. I mean, the people who heard him, the people who knew, what a beautiful, fine culture this is. On this occasion, of course, I would like to present this beautiful, exceptional song of the Siirt, to the approval of the public and you, our grand delegation. My car, my van, my van, it's not only done once, it's not done twice -- it's been in all the media -- my van was attacked every day, and I didn't get any past visits from a HDP person. I didn't get a pass on it. I didn't get a call from you. In response to this, when I was attacked by that thing in Mersin, I held a press conference, made a press statement, and strongly condemned it when it was attacked by your branch in Adana, your office. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here, under the circumstances, we do politics, and of course, we see the difficulty of being in politics under the circumstances. There was no limit to the threats I received there, there was no limit to the threats my friends received, and I didn't hear anything from you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0314par0312	It's raining bullets on us, bullets, no threats.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0312par0313	You make the bullets rain, yours do.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0314par0314	In Silvan, the forces you instructed us to send down bullets on us. He says it's a threat!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0312par0315	The one you're defending, the one you don't touch the dust with, the terrorist organization is pouring down those bullets. Don't we know that? Who are you telling? Just because our friends here are being politely silent doesn't mean you think you're going to sell it?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0314par0317	Don't be silent, dear, answer me. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2014 CIRCLE AND VICTIMAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND DETECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0315par0354	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, 11th speaker, Mr. Mehmet İlker Çiçil of Kahramanmarash. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Çitil, please.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0316par0357	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group for the budget for the Turkish Academy of Sciences 2016. I salute you and our precious, saintly citizens who are watching us on television. To all of our soldiers, our police, our civilians, even our martyrs who were there to serve today and in the past, I pray for God's mercy, his condolences to his relatives, and to our wounded, and to our immediate healings from here. I ask God to make it easy for our security forces who fought on their duty and fought for us there with their lives. Yes, the Turkish Academy of Sciences, which is Turkey's national academy, was founded on 7 January 1994, due to the fact that science, scientists, and scientific studies have always had a decisive impact on civilization, social development, prosperity. For 22 years, the Turkish Academy of Sciences carried out various activities for its purposes. The Academy performs activities from scientific prediction studies to scientists' awards and support programmes, international representation missions, scientific collaborative projects, scientific conferences, cultural projects, scientific publications to Turkish science terms projects, programs, projects, projects, projects, projects, projects, projects, projects, projects, projects, projects, projects of science and science. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's Academy of Sciences is also conducting studies under support, awards and scholarship programmes, scientific programme, publications, international relations. In addition, the Root Cell Work Group, which has been doing important work on stem cells that are increasingly important in the medical community, is also the major activities of the Cancer Work Group, which operates throughout our country, which is the most common cause of human death. Through these groups and other working groups, symposiums, workshops and scientific gatherings are made to contribute substantially to the country's science and culture. As an example of these studies, during 2015, the Symposium Report on Problems in the Inter-Departed Co-ordination of Cancer Treatment was also published. In this context, it is also intended to improve quality in the service presentation of cancer treatment, and to address the defects quickly. Members of parliament, considering the importance of stem cell research by the Council of Sciences of Turkey, a group of scientists, including members of different disciplines, has been formed under the name of the Turkish Academy of Sciences' Root Cell Work Group. The Root Cell Group has taken on the task of making attempts to direct our country's savings in the field of science to the country's ministry, recognizing the value of its work on human health, to live on issues that are of great importance to our country and can only be carried out under the leadership of the academy. Members of parliament, as one of the most active and respected members of the world scientific academy, the Turkish Academy of Sciences, which continues its vision of being a science academy that guides our country's scientific policies, will continue to carry out its mission and tasks more effectively with the strategic approach of Turkey's national academy in 2016, as it did in 2015. In today's world, where the scientific world is moving at a stunning pace, our AK PARTI powers, positive sciences and developing technology have implemented indexed development programmes, and will then continue successfully. In addition to the science world, TÜBİTAK, our universities, our institutes, our research labs, Turkey will reach more prosperous tomorrows with the support and incentive of RD and innovation-oriented scientific studies. And while we're on the subject of health, I would like to thank the members of our government in the southeast, of our government, of our government, of our terrorists, of our national unity and unity, of our blood-sucking terrorists who have served in that area with their lives and their lives at stake, our medics, our physicians, all the members of our health services. Again, in this process and in all the processes, I congratulate our soldiers who have been fighting in every corner of our country, especially in the southeast that has been going on for some time, against the terrorists who are trying to unite us with this PKK. A cop friend of ours from there has a favor to ask us: we are fighting here, we are fighting with our lives, our brothers may be martyring with us for this land. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We ask you, no matter what happens, continue until there is no more armed elements, and do not give up. Here we are fighting for you, for your future, for our children to breathe freely, and for your support, they say.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0317par0369	Mr. Çitil, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0316par0370	I thank both our health workers who serve there and in this direction, both Recep Akdağ and Mehmet Müezzinoglu, both our health ministers, who serve all over Turkey and who have passed the age of health, and our leader Ahmet Davutoglu, and our founding President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0317par0372	Members of parliament, the 12th speaker on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Edirne MP Rafet Sezen. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0318par0376	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting in 2016. I hereby salute our precious nation and the High Council. My fellow MPs, I pray for mercy from the great God to all of our treacherous terror organizations and all of our fallen martyrs in the past, and for patience to their families, and for immediate healing to our wounded brothers and sisters. In its absence, agriculture, a sector that seems to matter better, has grown beyond its existence as an expression of value, its processing value has been increased and has strategic value in international trade. It's a fact that we all know the importance of agriculture in human life. Agricultural production and food security have been one of the world's most important problems in recent years, in parallel with the growing world population. In particular, food shortages in developing countries have reminded us once again how important agricultural production is. In addition, employment, consumption spending, the supply of raw materials to other sectors, the share in national income and exports raises the socioeconomic importance of the agricultural sector. Therefore, it is very important to develop national and international strategies and to co-operate efficiently and effectively in this area to solve the agricultural production problem. Turkey has a special place in agriculture. As everyone appreciates, our bread and butter sunflowers and rice are above the world's standards. Edirne is an important agricultural town that produces 45 per cent of the tripod in Turkey, 15 per cent of the sunflower, and 3 per cent of the wheat. I want to thank Mr. Faruk Çelik, our Minister of Agriculture, Agriculture and Animalism, for the fact that before the November 1st elections, the price of the sale of the product was so low that the price of the plant would fall far back and there would be no buyers in the market, that it would take place at the beginning of December to prevent its victimization, and that the food, agriculture and animalism minister, Mr. Faruk Steel, would step into the market at a price of $1,580. In our time of power, we have been constantly followed, doing it right and on time, providing important support in agriculture to reduce the cost of our producers and farmers' input as much as possible. This is the first time we've given gas support in 2003. We reset the VAT in chemical fertilizer and bait. We've backed up 15 dollars an acre to be paid this year to contract manufacturers for oil sunflowers, aspirin, canola and soybeans. This has been the first period in our power to protect our producers by implementing the price of surveillance on customs taxes. We're a man of conviction who earns his bread from the earth and receives the compensation of his bread and his sweat as lawful. My fellow lawmakers, we're also giving young farmers 30 grand in grants, $70,000 in interest-free loans. To benefit from this project, you have to be 18-40 years old and carry the conditions of living in less than 20,000 rural areas in 81 provinces. We aim to promote sustainability in agriculture, support of young farmers' entrepreneurial initiatives, raise income levels, create alternative revenue sources and support projects for agricultural production in rural areas that will contribute to the employment of the young rural population. With the support of our Ministry of Agriculture, there are very serious surveillance for those who have broken the competition and played with our nation's health by making checks and copying and assaults on the market. That's why I want to thank our Prime Minister, our Minister of Agriculture and Petting, and his bureaucrats from here. There must be problems, problems in agriculture. Our Minister Faruk Çelik continues with good intentions to resolve these problems by receiving information from its original owners. I want to make the two corrections that my predecessors talked about. Dear friends, I've never forgotten 2001 until today, and I can't forget it. At the point where we arrived today, the doors of the Agriculture Bank were wide open to farmers when they could not enter through the farmers' gates of the Agriculture Bank in 2002. The 28 and a half billion credits were given because the doors were closed that day. I'm a child of the farm family, and I'm a brother of yours who lives on farming. In fact, I'm still in the village of Blackyusuf in Edirne, and I have 410 acres, and I'm farming myself. And I'm going to make a correction by saying that from here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say the price of raw oil from $900 to $2,700 in 2008 is not right, and the sunflower raw oil, which is $1,430 on January 1st, increased to $1,925 on June 15th. Our ministry wishes our entire country and our farmers in agriculture well, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0319par0390	Thank you, Mr. Sezen. Now, the thirteenth speaker is Şanlıurfa MP Mehmet Akyerek. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0320par0394	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism budget in the seventh round of the 2016 Financial Year Budget Bill. In the name of the city of the prophets, the city of Şanliurfa, from the eleven thousand and five hundred years of ancient land, where history and culture are intertwined, I salute you with love. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We live in a world where 800 million people live hungry, yet 1.3 billion tons of food are wasted a year, so famine and plenty are on the side. As one of the few self-sufficient countries, we need to appreciate the blessings we have and make good use of our resources. We need to develop continuous, innovative and current agricultural policies. We are a country that has made agriculture a culture in terms of geographical position, broad plant patterns, and climate diversity. Dear lawmakers, giant irrigation projects under the GAP, which will contribute extraordinarily to our country's agriculture, have begun to take place one by one. Mardin and Ceylanpınar 1, 2, 3, which are about to be completed on the main channel, will water 660,000 per cent of the land in Ceylanpınar district, and will gradually disappear from our district, with their tenders being completed and produced by Viranşehir 1 and Viranşehir 2 watering projects. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In addition, the project of the Hilvan-Sivrek-Viranşehir pump water is completed, the largest project within the GAP, which the region is eagerly awaiting. I give my thanks and thanks to our Minister of Forest and Water, the Minister of Development, who will water 1 million, 580,000 acres, and will make this project that we look forward to being carried out as soon as possible, especially as our Prime Minister, the Minister of Forest and Water, the Minister of Agriculture, and the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petty. Again, we have solved a social problem that has been gangrene for a hundred years by giving land to 674 families living without transportation, health care and education, which is the most important thing for modern people in the fields of Ceylanpınar and TEGYM. On the one hand, we continue to work on the Syrian border, which we call Keylanpınar, which will greatly relax our district of Ceylanpınar, which is trapped between the TİGEM fields, and will include an untrial land belonging to TİGEM, which we call Kepez's location, Ceylanpınar. As investments in our region increase, income and prosperity will increase, for thousands of years they will be unable to achieve their evil goals, who have been provocative and divisive in the land in which we have lived in peace with language, religion, race and diversity. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) And as the AK PARTY government and its group, we won't allow it either. I ask the Lord God to make amends for those who think so. In addition to these giant steps leading to the future of Urbana, the esteemed lawmakers are undersigned by the EC PARTY, as well as the very important investments in Viranşehir, where I was born and raised. In the past four years, 4.5 quadrillion investments have now been made in Viranşehir district, a 200-bed state hospital, and four-year health institutes to be opened to education this year, ISKUR projects to provide jobs for people, and TOKİKİ has 1,100 homes and social utensils to complete. Just these? Forty-three new schools have been established, and education has been started. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There are new roads for transport to each village, there are drinking water in each settlement, thanks to all my fellow governor Recep Tayyip Erdoğana, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, who brought valuable services to Şanliurfa, my hometown of Viranşehir, and Ceylanpınar. I wish our budget of 2016 was good for our country. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0321par0408	Thank you, Mr. Whiteheart. The 14th speaker is Konya MP Muhammad Ugur Kaleli. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0322par0413	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I hereby salute your high council. Yes, my dear friends, I am from Iconium, and Iconia is the city of Mazlana. He says: "The seven seas, which are the messenger of the sea of unity, are taken captive by the seven seas. I pray to God for unity, I hope again that the people of this country, the Turkish nation, will have a say in the seven continents. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, I pray for God's mercy to our martyrs. Dear friends, there have been many changes in agriculture in our country, which has great agricultural potential. We're working together with industrialization to save agriculture from an important ring of development and the anxiety of self-sufficientness and make it the most important sector of global trade. We now see agriculture, which is run in the soil and market process and is active in rural areas, as an area that needs to be monitored and managed on a global scale. The Agricultural Law, which was introduced in our country for the first time, is the Model of Agricultural Basin Production and Support, the Amendment Act, the speed of land collection, efficient irrigation projects, support for rural development and animalism, improvements in certified seed production, steps on seed feed bank, food safety, 14 billion lira annual support, and finally the removal of KDVAIL in fertilizer and feed to the destinations of the agricultural sector 2023. However, the world's 7th, 1st agricultural economy in Europe, and $5 billion in exports of $17 billion have been increased in agricultural foreign trade. The agricultural sector, where each of the four people works, is important not only to provide food, but also to demonstrate its importance in employment and trade. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, Turkey is on fertile land in the middle of the Geography of 1.5 billion people who import 365 billion dollars in agricultural products. In order for us to get more shares from the world market, we need to raise Turkey's agricultural production value by 2023 to 150 billion dollars and exports to $40 billion. Agriculture and food have a dynamic structure because it is a strategic sector. In this regard, global and national price changes are also high. The word is now a global phenomenon, not the product you produce, but the goods you sell. It is an important bridge between the northern hemisphere and the southern hemisphere, which, in its geopolitical position, is now globalised by agricultural trade. Market stability is an inevitable result of the globalisation of our stock markets, which are organised markets to protect our consumer from sudden prices, risings, and global competition. From this point on, we will also implement regional residency and product stockbrokership as well as our support for licensed storage. Because we want the licensed storage system to be distributed on the basis of products in Turkey. In our country, great work has begun. As a matter of fact, last week, the Stock Exchange between Istanbul and the Iconian Trade Exchange was announced that a physical delivery was made to the national and international markets and investors at the ceremony attended by our prime minister in Turkey. This announcement also makes sense that the 2 million hectares of agricultural land are announced in the ISO 1000 List, with 14 agricultural and agricultural industrial companies, with the industrial integration of 2 million hectares of agricultural land. In addition, it is important that the Conconcealed Trade Stock Exchange demonstrates how successful it will be in the sale of licensed storage electronics products and how successful it will be in establishing a sound and healthy bond between manufacturers, industrialists, merchants and final consumers. What our farmer, our industrialist, our final consumer, and our state will gain from the product, the stock exchanges of expertise will bring depth to agriculture and agricultural trade. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been earmarked for $17 billion and $175 million for our ministry's budget for 2016. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] 11 billion and 600 million euros of the budget will be used for agricultural support. In addition, further studies will be carried out in 2016 to provide additional resources for the support of producers. In that sense, I would like our budget for 2016 to bring blessings to our country. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0323par0429	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. The fifteenth speaker is Mr. Abdullah Ozturk, Kırıkkale MP. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0324par0434	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to talk to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism on behalf of the EC PARTI in the Central Management Budget Bill of 2016. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, we wish Allah's mercy and patience to our grieving families, to Ercan Günay and Murat Dündar, our soldiers who were killed in Şırnak. Dear lawmakers, what have we done in 13 years as EC PARTY? As the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting, we've moved on to strategic planning in agriculture, and the Agricultural Law has been launched again during our governments. We've increased agricultural support five-and-a-half times. Agricultural support, $1 billion 800m in 2002, was raised to $10 billion in 2015. In the last 13 years, the cash we've paid the Turkish farmer has increased to 80 billion liras in total. The two most important things for our farmers are diesel and fertilizer. For the first time, our government launched diesel support in 2003. In 2003 and 2015, a total of $6 billion in diesel support was given. On average, 16 per cent of the cost is covered with diesel support. In 2005, we started giving fertilizer support directly to our farmers. With fertilizer support, the average cost is 15 per cent. Mr. Okan, I'd like to say something to my esteemed congressman in addition to his speech from here. He said 18 percent of the VAT is not reflected in the daytime section today. As a brother in chemical fertilizer, I underline that this is all reflected. You can ask me about the fertilizer you want, one by one, of all kinds of fertilizer. I'm not saying 15 per cent, I'm just stressing the fact that 18 per cent is reflected in the market. We already have 15 percent of our support here, and if we add 18 percent of that, at 18 percent, today, at 2016, our farmer is supported in fertilizer. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Yes, my esteemed lawmakers, we've also covered the grain and the beans in bonus support. We've reduced interest rates on agricultural loans. If you look at these rates, you'll appreciate that in 2002, animal loans were 59 percent. Yeah, today, livestock loan is zero percent. The amount of credit used in plant production is 69 per cent, while today it's only 4 per cent. Yes, this is the success of the EC PARTY government, my dear lawmakers. Again, the amount of loans used by the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loan co-ops increased to $529m in 2002; yes, today, in 2016 it increased to exactly 54 times to 28.5 billion. We've done a lot of projects that increase our plant production. For the first time, we supported domestic seedling and seedling. In the last decade, we've given $1 billion $100 million for seedling and seedling. In 2002, our seed production increased from 145 thousand tonnes to 890,000 tonnes in 2015. We have brought Turkey into a country that exports seeds. Our seed exports were raised to $150 million from $17 million. We also held on to animalism, which has been neglected for years, during the time of our governments. In 2002, we raised animal support, which was only $83 million, to $3 billion in 2015. In the last 13 years, we've given a total of $18 billion to animalism. This is the first time we've taken small animalism into our own hands. We launched Turkey's biggest and most important rural development move. As part of their 50 per cent rural development support, we provided a total of $4.5 billion grants with national resources and IPARD European Union funds. We've completed 5.654 new agricultural industrial facilities with the support of 50 per cent of national-source grants launched in 2006 to ensure agricultural-integration integration. We have granted $1 billion,200 million to these facilities that have been activated, and on this occasion 60,000 people have been employed. The 39 that I represent as the MP is also included in the Kırıkkale.... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to thank the government for putting the city into a rural development program starting in 2016. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm the new MP, as you can appreciate, I haven't been able to complete the time, I've come to Kurskkale, but time is up.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0325par0451	You were going to start with the Clumsy.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0324par0452	Mr. President never warned us.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0326par0453	It's written across the street, Congressman, so I'm not warning you, but if you're a new congressman, I promise you one minute to finish your promise.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0324par0455	Thank you very much, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I beg your pardon, thank you. We have agricultural support for the crevices, so let me finish this in two tiny lines. In 2002, our fractal farmers received $12 million in agricultural support, while in 2015, we increased it by 2.5 times to $31.5 million. During the time of our governments, Kırıkkale was given a total of $380m in cash agricultural support. In 2002, we were given 113,000 lira in livestock support, while in 2015, we raised it to $5.5 million. Hopefully, during the time of our governments, I'm also saying that we paid Cırıkkale a total of $34.5 million in livestock support. I salute your high council. I wish our country the good luck of the 2016 budget, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0327par0463	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the final speaker is Hatay MP Mehmet Öğurk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Önturk. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0328par0468	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Of course, the agricultural sector is a very climate-related industry with droughts, natural disasters. And so the industry is a one-on-one area that deals with the producer and the consumer and the community, and that's where it's always associated with politics. In the past period, politics remembered the agricultural sector from election to election, explained its base prices to products with which it used more than 20 hundred base prices, and then crushed the farmer with inflation and interest until the next election. The EC PARTI looked at all these challenges economically, looked at them more economically than in the social area, and tried to solve these problems with structural reforms, and there were serious structural reforms. Dear friends, in the 24th term, our friends from the Agricultural Commission and I went officially to a country that belonged to the European Union. The first question our anti-committee friends asked us was, "Can you explain to us how in such a short time you've made agriculture successful at this point in Turkey?"
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0329par0472	For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0328par0473	I really want to thank our Ministry, my friends. There have been serious structural reforms in this country.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0329par0474	Explain what it is.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0328par0475	Let me tell you -- you don't know, you just got here -- structural reforms, what we're doing. A reform has been made in this country by the Law on Earth Protection 5403.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0329par0476	What was that reform?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0328par0477	It's been...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0329par0478	32 million acres must be empty for him.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0328par0479	Three acres down, three acres of farming per yard, dear friends in this country. Gathering is a very important service for this country, and hopefully we'll continue to do so. Look, the farmer had been strangled by a loan shark in the past. In prison, there were farmers in this country who couldn't pay what they owed. Right now, praise be to God, we support and support our farmer in terms of interest, with loans between zero interest loans and 8 points. With the IPARD project...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0330par0482	There is no Niğde, there is no Niğde, there is no Ipard, there is no Iconium, there is no Bursa, there is no Niğde.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0328par0483	Today -- let's go to Brussels -- our Agricultural Commission members meet when they leave -- Turkey is the best candidate country in the world to implement the IPArd projects.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0331par0484	Mr. Mehmet, we'd like to ask Osmaniye.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0328par0485	I hope so.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0332par0486	You tell me where he went the most.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0328par0487	We've spent $4.5 billion on IPARD projects, along with the 2 billion we're going to spend this year, hopefully we're providing a total of 118 thousand jobs. Dear friends, the most important thing in agriculture is watering. During the AK PARTY administrations, we reached 70 per cent of our total diluted areas, which is a very important issue. So far, Turkey has been perceived as a water-rich country, and that's what we've always been taught in our childhood. You know, Mr. Minister Veysel Bey has a saying that we don't waste water anymore because we're looking at Turkish water, and that's one of the main reasons that we're undermining a 125 billion-dollar economy in Turkey today, a world-placed economy, and with a modern irrigation system, I hope Turkey is aiming at 150 billion dollars in agricultural growth. My dear friends, of course my time is short. I'd like to tell you a few things about my neighborhood here, but I'll tell you as much as I can. Hatay Amik Plain is one of Turkey's most efficient plains, and during your rule, Hatay Amik Plain was forgotten by State Waterworks, and only 18 percent of such a fertile plain could be watered. Today, all projects that will water the Amik Plain, 90 per cent, 95 per cent of it, are about to come to life, and with its contributions to the Turkish economy, hopefully, it will move the economic level of Amik Plain and Hatay. Dear friends, here, I'd like to say something. All friends called Turkey an importer country in agriculture. I'm calling from here: In Turkey, other than cotton, show one product that has been reduced from 2002 to today, and I'll pay my respects to you, one. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You say wheat. The wheat is 19.5 million tons; it weighs 22.6 million tons. There's a lot more to tell, but I'm telling my fellow group presidents from here, if you'll give me a little more time, hopefully, we'll be more specific. I wish the budget would be a blessing, and I pay all of you my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0333par0496	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0334par0497	I'm sorry, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0333par0498	Here you are, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0334par0499	You don't know. He made a direct taunt by saying, "You don't know."
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0333par0500	He didn't pick on you, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0335par0501	He picked on Orhan Bey.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0334par0502	He specifically told me.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0333par0503	Okay, here you go. Two minutes, I promise. No more teasing, please.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0336par0508	Thank you, Mr. President. 1) The previous speaker friend said they had money for 18 billion dollars in livestock. Friends, where do you live? Because of the meat crisis, your minister has come to the point of fighting with all the components. He says, "They don't listen to me, they don't listen to me in milk, they don't listen to me in meat, they give me the price of meat more than I want." First you shut down the Milk Industries Foundation, you destroyed all the KİTs, you privatized them, you sold them, and now you're trying to lower the price of meat, you're saying that livestock has improved. Have mercy. 2) You say you've increased seedling. That's true, but my farmer buys seeds more expensive every year, spends more money. 3) You're talking about irrigation, you haven't been able to open a irrigation field as well as the irrigation field in the decade before you. You open an average of 50,000 per year, and in your last program, we'll water 1 million hectares by 2019. If you go with the same model, you'll make it happen in 20 years. 4) Just sunflowers, rice again - sunflowers, you don't have any increase in production except rice. Now come quickly, and I'll bring out all the products, and I'll show you: sunflowers, rice, and corn, I beg your pardon -- from 2002 to today, all of them. We're obviously importers of clear raw materials. I told you the numbers, we got 140 million tons of imported goods from abroad, 150 billion dollars. Long live the farmer of foreign lands, damn the farmer of my people [[!]] You know what your reforms are? Emigration from village to city, pooring villages. There are no more people in the village than 60 years old, all in the city, and you're just leading what's happening in the city. You haven't had a chance to take a step forward in agriculture in any way, and you don't have a problem with that. You operate against multinational companies and conventional agriculture. You're the nemesis, you're the nemesis, you're stacking animals on concrete floors, you're getting yields. Mr. Secretary, nine billion dollars has recently been given zero interest loans, and now you're going to give me $3 billion, where's that money gone? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Why hasn't the meat production increased? Why are we shooting this in livestock? I'd like to hear it from you in particular. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit04spe0337par0522	Thank you, Mr. Saribal. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2014 CIRCLE AND VICTIMAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND DETECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are complete. I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0337par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks on the 2016 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2014 Central Management Act. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Congressmans, in the previous session, the talks were completed on behalf of the groups. Now, on behalf of the individuals, in favor of Karaman MP Mr. Recep Guest. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Guest, your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0338par0010	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of myself in the seventh round of the 2016 Budget Bill talks. I hereby salute your high council. I also offer my condolences to our fellow martyrs, and my condolences to our nation. The lead in budget talks is usually numbers, and I'm going to bring to your attention some of the numbers that I consider important, and I'm going to try to express agriculture mainly. Food, agriculture and animalism must be assessed on three main axes: sustainable production, food safety, reliable food. We need to look at a wide range of time to see the direction of the course in the evaluations in these three main topics. The short-term comparisons in the agricultural sector don't justify the progress in the industry because you can't decide from today to tomorrow and you can't cut production tomorrow and you can't increase the production you need. The result of good things or mistakes made in agricultural policy comes through time. The numbers I'm going to give you are the numbers that will help us see this pattern over the years. In any of the ten-year periods between 1970 and 2000 in the agriculture sector, look, I'm drawing the bottom very thick, the real agricultural growth rate in any of them has failed to rise to the rate of population growth, and in every ten-year period, the population rate has been below 0.77 per cent. However, in the last ten years, agricultural growth has increased by 0.37 per cent of the rate of population growth. Dear lawmakers, another statistical information that we can see in the direction of the course is the figures of our animal existence. Look, there's a lot of discussion, but the numbers are going to tell us a lot more accurately. In 1980, Turkey's large animal presence dropped from 16 million to 925 thousand, to 11 million 748 thousand in 1990, to 10 million 907,000 in 2000. At the beginning of 2002, Turkey had only 9 million, 925 grand. In 2002, our small number, 67 million and 673 thousand in 1980, did not find even 32 million. I wish we could've seen this painful painting in advance. As of 2015, our cattle presence was 14 million, 127 thousand, and our small animal presence was 42 million. The production of 8.5 million tonnes of milk has increased to 18 million 655,000 tonnes. Turkey has lost twenty-five years, but has begun to regain its habit to put back in twelve or thirteen years. Agricultural production has increased in every pen. In 2002, 145,000 tonnes of seed production increased to 866,000 tons of grain, 19.5 million tons of wheat, 22.6 million tons of corn, 6.4 million tons of corn, 850,000 tons of sunflowers, 1,680,000 000 tons, and 95 thousand tons of bananas, to 270,000 tonnes, to 144,000 tonnes of Antep's nuts. This positive change is the result of dozens of right jobs in sustainable production. We can replicate these samples even more time. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In addition, the EC PARTY supported almost 80 per cent of support when it came to power to reward non-productive assets. This system has been replaced by the system that supports the product and production. I'm one of the new lawmakers. I assume you'll give me a minute.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0339par0022	All right, finish your words, please.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0340par0023	Tell me about the import, Mr. Commissioner.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0338par0024	The figures also provide serious indicators of distances in the solution of structural issues. For example, between 1961 and 2002, there are 4,600,000 hectares of land collected in the last 13 years. The distance taken in forty-one years has been ten times greater in thirteen years. In my opinion that our two ministries and seven institutions, which we meet with our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism today, will increase their activities in the service, I bid that the budget of 2016 be well budgeted, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0341par0027	Thank you, Mr. Guest. Congressmans, now it's time for a speech on behalf of the government. The first speaker is Mr. Secretary of State, Minister of Defense Mr. Ismet Yilmaz. Your time is twenty minutes, Mr. Yilmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0342par0033	Thank you. Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the grounds that the National Ministry of Defense and the Defense Industry Undersecretary's Charter for the Year of 2016, the Final Bill of Accounts 2014, will be discussed in the General Assembly. On this occasion, I salute you. Mr. President, before I speak, I ask for immediate healing for our martyrs, who have died to live freely in this country, for God's mercy and blood-giving veterans. Their sacrifice has made this land our homeland forever. Mr. President, our ministry's budget for 2016 has come to the General Assembly at $26 billion,451 million,504,000. 51.2 per cent of the National Ministry of Defence budget for 2016 are staff costs, 9.1 per cent for social security institutions, 37.4 per cent for purchases and service expenses, 1.5 per cent for current transfers, and about 0.8 per cent for capital costs. The Defence Industry Undersecretary's budget proposal for 2016 was set for 57m 377,000 Turkish liras for administrative costs left out of defence projects. Our National Defence Ministry aims to increase the efficiency of the Turkish Armed Forces, to have a more qualified, beca-capable, modular, flexible, and a deterrent structure that can serve in any environment. To that end, he has been guided by modern and scientific methods, using the resources assigned to him effectively, economically, and efficiently. We know that the end of a path that does not lead to knowledge is darkness. In this regard, the current part of the National Ministry of Defence budget is due to the needs of business care and execution, which have been prioritized by law set up by the laws set out for the budgetary period, based on the actual staff and the prices predicted for the same period. The budget for modernisation, which is an important part of the National Ministry of Defence budget, except for these current expenses, is created by setting short, medium and long-term needs, as required by the military strategy required by Turkey's region. Expenses are carried out under the strategic target plan, where the Turkish Armed Forces are co-ordinated with the necessary force structures and the manpower resources in accordance with their plans for action, need. Mr. President, good lawmakers, defence spending is what it takes to ensure the safety of the public, and security has no price. Security is the highest priority of public service. At the NATO Summit of State and Governments in Wales in 2014, all NATO member states have pledged to increase defence spending by up to 2 per cent. Turkey will fulfil its commitment in the coming period. According to 2014 final figures, our defence spending was 1.7 per cent of our GDP. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been submitted to your approvals as well as to the draft of the 2014 Final Accounts Act with the budget bill for 2016. In the bill presented, the National Ministry of Defence budget for 2014 reached $29.8 billion, in accordance with the budget laws of internal and non-institutional transfers in 2013, and 8.5 billion Turkish liras were transferred to 2015, with an advance of 6.4 billion Turkish liras, which had been opened in previous years, with an advance of 6.4 billion and acreditive cycles; 21.3 billion Turkish dollars were actually spent; 6.9 billion Turkish liras were paid in advance and acreative. The costs of 2014 and the results of budget implementation have been subject to audit under domestic and external control activities. Internal audit activities are carried out by the control units of internal control, which are the elements of the internal control system, created under the Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018, as well as by the Introspection Office's presidency, the Chief of Staff, and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Under Court Law 6085, all units of the Turkish Armed Forces are also subject to external control by the Court's Presidency without exception. The Court's external control of the Court of 2014 was conducted in our ministry and its respective units, and reports from the audit have been submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to this, we have 1 findings in our Ministry, 2 findings for the Defence Industry Support Fund, 4 findings for Akaryat İkmal and NATO Presidency. Correctional procedures and administrative measures are being taken on the findings found in the report. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to address developments in the global and regional security environment, affecting our need for defence and security, and the reflection of these developments in Turkey's external threat perceptions, national security and internal stability. The security environment of the 21st century provides a complex structure that includes political, military changes, geopolitical tensions and the risks of conflict. In this geography, the map of countries is changing. Looks like the first division war didn't end in our territory. No one should ever doubt that as a war-tired nation, as a country in poverty, as we have fought a successful battle against seven heifers -- this great nation in unity and unity -- he will then know to overcome all obstacles that have been set before him in this period as the rising star of his territory in unity and unity. The global security environment is shaped by increasing momentum of social economic, political, military, technological, and environmental changes, and this period of the fastest transformations in human history is also fundamentally undermined by international balances. Social, political turmoil and internal conflicts in North Africa, the Middle East and the Arabian Peninsula are destroying state and social structures. This makes political boundaries uncertain. This increases the competition between countries and power centers, thus increasing instability. It seems that destruction is easy, but it is difficult to replace it. The Ukrainian crisis, the invasion of Crimea, the presence of conflicting regions in the Caucasus, and the actions of radical terrorist organisations have raised security concerns for countries and even international pacts and organisations. The talk is that developments are forcing the current global order to transform. However, it is estimated that in this process, a multipolar world after the cold war has been transformed into a multipolar structure, where traditional power centers have decreased their will and capacity to intervene, while rising forces maintain the uncertainty of how to integrate into global order, a new system that is inclusive and stable cannot be easily established. Turkey is in the heart of the African-Avrusian geography, where global competition is intense, in a critical and difficult geography near many crisis zones. It increases the risk of our country and increases our strength. Geography has been our destiny. With the Syrian crisis that has been going on since March 2012, our region is on the scene of bloody conflicts, witnessing the greatest migration and human disaster since World War II. Some 500,000 civilians have already died in Syria, and that number is increasing day by day. Conflicts in the region also damage the security and stability of a large region that includes not only Syria, but Turkey. Unfortunately, the situation in Syria has become even more dire because the international community did not take preventive measures on time. The Syrian crisis has led to significant developments in the eastern Mediterranean and southern region, with the participation of foreign actors in the region. In this context, Russia's Federation's increase in naval presence in the region since 2014 has made the balance even more complicated. Thousands of civilians are flocking to Turkey's border because of the bombings carried out by the Russian Federation of Turkey against civilians in Syria. As a result of developments at the border, border physical security systems have been initiated to ensure that the country's security is placed in high-level protection, as well as to minimise the risks it may face while carrying out its duty as a member of the armed security forces in the region. The Syrian regime and the PYD are continuing their attacks on the Syrian people around Aleppo (Aleppo) and north. The civil war and human drama in Syria have made many Syrians refugees. Currently, 5 million Syrians live outside Syria, mostly in neighbouring countries. Turkey has over 2.5 million Syrians. This is the largest number of asylum seekers in a single country. Despite all its difficulties, Turkey remains open-door policy for Syrian and Iraqis for humanitarian reasons. Despite the ceasefire, if the attacks continue, it would be inevitable for nearly a million people to flee the area and head for our border. This is a threat to the stability of both Turkey and Europe. Iraq has been affected by the instability caused by growing terrorist activities and religious conflicts for a long time. The polarisation of Iraq, ethnic, religious and religious fundamentally affects the stability of the country. Although coalition forces have lost power with their operations, the DEA presence and activity in Iraq continues. Again, the latest crisis between Iran and Saudi Arabia in our region shows the vulnerability of the situation in the Middle East. They are concerned that these developments will lead to a new religious conflict in the region. Turkey has requested a reduction of tension between the two countries, and it supports all efforts in that direction. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the crisis in Yemen, it's making the country poorer, it's increasing the divisions of sects and tribes. This brings more chaos to the country. Turkey supports international efforts to ensure peace and stability in Yemen. Radical terrorist organisations taking advantage of the lack of authority and chaos in the region, especially Syria and Iraq, are increasing their capacities and areas of action day by day, threatening the security of countries at regional and global levels. The DEA poses a direct threat to the national security of our country and to the world. DEAC is the common enemy of mankind. The Shia in the region, the Sunni segregation and the presence of ethnic fault lines are important areas of abuse fed by the DEASH. Turkey has been supporting the fight against DEAŞ since the beginning. In this regard, he has opened airspace, bases and ports to international coalition troops against the DEAS terrorist organisation, and has assigned personnel to coalition headquarters from the start. Air vehicles belonging to four countries of the coalition are still deployed in İncirlik. Also, Turkey is actively participating in coalition air activities starting on 28 August 2015. In addition, the United States, along with the United States, has hosted the training equipment programme for Syrian dissidents, which, as part of regional cooperation, has trained the Northern Iraqi security force in the angst and needs of the Iraqi local government and the Iraqi Central Administration. Terrorism has become a global and asymmetrical threat from national level to international level, with a maximum use of technological and IT opportunities, spreading worldwide with criminal and terrorist organisations. One of the clearest indicators is the treacherous terrorist attack that occurred on February 17th in Ankara. The PKK terror organisation's extension in Syria, the PYD, the YPG, is trying to gain position with the support of non-field actors and countries in the region, taking advantage of the confusion in Turkey. The PKK is exploiting the crisis in Syria and Iraq to gain legitimacy in the eyes of the international public. The PKK and the PYD share the same terrorist pool and the leading staff. The PKK's relationship with the PSD is easily understood from many contacts and co-operations. There is evidence and intelligence that aid to the PYD has been delivered to PKK terrorists who have committed terrorist acts in Turkey; this is a serious threat to our country. Turkey will continue to take all necessary measures against any terrorist organisation, including the DEA, PKK and the NYD, using its international law-based rights. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey is a friend of all the peoples living in this geography -- Arab, Turkish, Turkmen. In its most difficult times, Turkey opened its doors to all of its brothers, and it will continue to open. He is also a brother and friend of the Kurds in Syria. Where was it shown? Turkey is the one who accepted more than 200,000 people from three sides when Kobani was surrounded by DEAŞ, and Turkey is the one who supported the fight there and helped save Kobani (Kobani), so Turkey is the protector of the Kurdish people there. However, the Kurdish people there must also have no connection to the terrorist organization in any way. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the conflicts and crises in our recent geography, which I briefly state, make it necessary for us to be ready for whatever happens. National security has become a priority. The people's demand is a life of peace, stability, and security. It's almost impossible for countries to cope alone with the risks and threats that are growing with globalization and its nature is increasingly diversified. For this reason, Turkey is involved in many international co-operation mechanisms and participates in the task of promoting peace, in international obligations at a maximum level in terms of its national interests, opportunities and capabilities. However, crises in our region have shown that the interests of international relations can prevent the spirit of alliance. For this reason, in our geography, there is more than ever a need for powerful armed forces from the bosom of our nation, based on national industries and policies. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers must be strong in order to maintain international peace and stability, to establish the security and peace environment necessary for sustainable development and humanitarian development. A strong armed force is only supported by a strong defense industry, which is sustainable, permanent. Building a strong defense industry in our country is our main goal. Turkey, which wants to be a strong country in its region, is aware that it is necessary to have a strong economy and strong industry, as well as unique products and solutions in defence and security. Defence industry is an industry that uses the most advanced technologies. The development of these technologies is possible with intensive RD studies. Our basic policy is to ensure domestication, independence and nationalization in the defence industry. We have two firms among the world's 100 largest defence industry companies, and we aim to increase that number in the coming period. With the success of our defense programs, our security forces and armed forces have been enhanced in the field of defense and security. Thanks to projects that have been carried out with great pride as a result of the transformation, today we are using our domestic production ship, our helicopter, our drones, our satellites, and our electronic systems. Pretty soon we'll be inventory of our domestic tank, our domestic rifle, our domestic aircraft, the Turkish Armed Forces. We export our defence industry products not only to meet the needs of the Turkish Armed Forces, but also to friendly and sister countries. The Tunus and Turkmenistan are an instrument of porcupines, the Congo (ya Dragons), Saudi Arabia, Umman, Malaysia, and the U.S. Arab Emirates with pallet armored vehicles, the Qatar-free aircraft, and the marine platforms that we have already built in many countries are new products in exports. And in the field of defence industry, we will make Turkey sufficient for itself. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were correct to initiate the process of solutions. It's true, it's true yesterday, it's true today, and it'll be true tomorrow. The solution process, no fighting, no guns, no discussion of everything in the democratic struggle process, and the Parliament's final decision. It was right for terrorists to leave the country, the process was stopped because of known developments abroad. Today, we have no alternative in the fight against terrorism other than the need to ensure public order of the state of law. Turkey's respect for law should not be perceived as weakness, Turkey will continue its fight against terrorism within the legal state. Our security forces act under the law at the expense of martyrs to fight the terrorist they've been given under the law. People who give tea to our nation, our nation, especially the beloved Turkish nation, and kiss Mehmet's eyes in the southeast also show that the Turkish Armed Forces and police forces, who are involved in the fight against the terrorist, are behind our nation until the end. The resolution process is not a secret and hidden process; the Parliament has passed its law, the Council of Ministers' decision on implementation has been issued, published in the Official Gazette, which has been published publicly, and the research commission has been established in parliament. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish our budget for 2016 to be good for our country. Be assured that today the Turkish Armed Forces are far more powerful and ready for war than yesterday, and there is no doubt that tomorrow the Turkish Armed Forces will be stronger and more prepared than today. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I thank you now for your support for our budget, and once again, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0343par0064	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the government, the second speaker is Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, Mr. Fikri Il. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Secretary, your time is 20 minutes. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the budget of 2016 of relevant and related institutions, and the Final Accounting Bill of the 2014 Central Management Act, which I take responsibility for, under the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. I hereby salute the High Council. The great breaking point in history includes the inventions of such products as large epidemics or important statesmen, such as black markets, wheels, stirrups, compasses, gunpowder, printers, telescopes, locomotives, or computers. In almost every period, societies that take the lead in science and technology win over other societies, give them the upper hand. The background of the Egyptians' increase in agricultural prosperity, Greeks' greater income in oil trade, the Ottomans' domination of the Balkans, and ultimately the conquest of Istanbul, or the British Industrial Revolution, along with the British Industrial Revolution, is high in science and technology. All of these examples show that we can increase their number even further. Before becoming a leading country in science and technology, it is logical to become one of the world's leading countries. Let us not forget that 100 years from now, the steps we take today will be determined how we will be on the history page. In this regard, I believe we have also fulfilled a historical responsibility as we discuss the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. Because our ministry's work is not just about today, but about tomorrow. To produce more information and to establish mechanisms to transform the information we produce into economic and social benefits means that Turkey will rise to the top again in the history scene. I am very happy to say that both the production of Turkey and the quality of its production are increasing from 2002 to today. See, despite the global economic crisis between 2002 and 15 years, Turkey's average annual growth rate is 4.7 per cent, but the production industry's growth rate is 5.4 per cent during this period. So the expression that the manufacturing industry has grown or has not grown big enough is not an expression of fact. In our exports of $36 billion in 2002 in particular, the share of low-tech products was 47 per cent, while today -- praise be to God -- was moved to 35 per cent. Our transition from low-tech to low-middle-tech and middle-low technology to medium-high-tech products has played an important role in exporting, but we can't stop here, we can't stop. In the coming period, we will increase the share of high-tech products in our exports. We want to increase this rate to 15 per cent in 2023, which is now around 4 per cent. We've taken some very important steps about this, and we'll keep going. On 2 April 2015, Mr. Prime Minister's package of incentives for employment, production and investment takes advantage of Turkey's 5th district incentives for the production of high-tech products. Now, as the Ministry, we've reached the final stage of working on the support of medium high-tech products, and hopefully we'll all reach that goal together. We know very well that transition to high-tech means more exports, more profits, more income, more investments and more savings. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we are working intensively to speed up the transition of our country into an information-based economy, to move into a more qualified production structure, to increase the added value our industry produces, and thus to make Turkey a global force in the economy. I'd like to briefly share with you some of the work we've done in our ministry that we're considering doing in the coming period. As the ministry, we continue our work with a sense of domestic, innovative and green production. With this understanding, we have determined that the vision of Turkey's Industrial Strategy Document, which has 70 major actions, is to be the design and production base of Afro-Avrisya, in medium high-tech products. In 2015, we adopted 13 different strategy documents along with the Industrial Strategy Document. With these strategy documents, we are preparing our existing strong sectors for the future and taking steps to accelerate our new generation of sectors. With a proactive understanding, we've already started work on the industrial 4.0 process, which will mark the 2020s. We received the Industrial 4.0 revolution on the basis of different meetings on our government's agenda, particularly the 29th meeting of the Science and Technology High Council, which we held in the presidency of our Prime Minister, and this BTYK resolution now registered industry 4.0 as a government policy. Unfortunately, as a country that follows the previous three industrial revolutions from behind, we're doing all we can to be an actor in the field, not an audience in the new process. We follow very closely the developments in areas such as the Internet of objects, 3D printers, simulations, large data, sensor technologies, automation, artificial intelligence, cloud information, robotic technologies. We've implemented our Biotech Strategy Document. We've completed our nanotechnology and software strategy documents. We also continue our work on strategy documents that will regulate the fields of objects, large data, cloud information and wearable technologies. With these strategy documents, we will increase our country's competitiveness in high-tech areas. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we are deeply concerned about efforts to strengthen domestic production both to reduce our import dependency and to increase our exports. For this purpose, 5,057 domestic documents have been issued by the TOBBB and TESK, as part of the Indian Proclamation. We've made it mandatory for companies operating in medium high and high-tech sectors to apply the price advantage of public tenders up to 15 per cent. Another important application is the Technological Product Experience Document. You know, with public support, we've started giving our businesses that run RD, turn their work into a technological product, and instead of a certificate of employment to get them to participate in public tenders, we've started giving them a Technological Product Experience Document. With 104 documents we've provided so far, our entrepreneurs have won a public tender worth about a billion Turkish liras. Without this document, they could not enter public tenders. With the RD reform package, we've cleared the way for more of our entrepreneurs to receive this document. It's in the lononic language that we've been serving for the past year. Gov. Our web portal, which broadcasts at the troy, contains information about industrial-registered businesses. The knowledge of who, where, and what he produces is easily accessible with ▪Loncan (alone), which has been visited by more than 222,000 people so far, and also serves in English. With a click from one end of the world in Turkey, you can see who makes what and where and can be reached. This is an extremely important service. In the same way, there is a lab portal in our country that will allow access to labs that provide tests and examination services. industry. Gov. We started broadcasting at the address of the troy. We're aiming for many tests to be conducted abroad now in our country because of the knowledge of where our industrialists are, in which labs, in which tests can be conducted. Of all the projects we've run on the sectors to increase domestic production, our most prominent work is no doubt the Native Auto Project. We believe that our country, which is among the major production centers of the world in the automotive sector, should now form a brand of its own. We see it as a necessity for our automotive sub-industrial industry to be in strategic position, joint position. So far, we've produced four prototypes. And by the end of this year, hopefully, we'll build a 30-40 test fleet, test these vehicles in all kinds of land, climate and season conditions, and hopefully, before 2020, we'll get to the mass production of the domestic car. (AK PARTI) With this project, we aim to become a country that produces, develops and exports automotive technologies, such as batteries, electric motors, driver control units and autonomous tool systems, as well as domestic brand creation. We continue our work to establish the automotive testing centre, which is a great need for the automotive industry, in the city of Bursa-Newşehir. We've completed the allocation and possession of 4,300 acres of land that we're setting up at the test center. We'll start building the brake test track, which is the first phase of the test center, hopefully, this year. We've started trying to build a motor perfection center to produce a local diesel engine. In this year, hopefully, we will have established this center of perfection. We're also setting up an automobile perfection center in TÜBITAK. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, industrial sites, organised industrial areas and industrial areas are the most important elements of our industry's physical development and planned industrialization. So far, we've used 3.5 billion Turkish liras and 4.8 billion Turkish liras to our organised industrial regions at the price of 2016. Right now, we have 166 in infrastructure and top structure, 222 in operation, 285 organised industrial zones with legal status. One of them said, "It would be helpful to read a little bit more about what someone said, so we think it would be helpful to make an assessment like that. So far, 1,600,000 people have been employed in our organised industrial zones. We want to create a million new jobs by setting up 70 new organised industries by 2023. In order to create large-scale and distinctive investments for Turkey, we have established Filios, Ceyhan Energy Initiatives and Karapınar Energy Institutes. We've also announced the Bor Energy Development District. Our work on Karaman has also reached the final stage. Hopefully, we'll have Karapınar and Filyos Industries ready for investors this year. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In addition, we aim to create at least three new major production zones in different parts of our country. As we increase our OSBs in quantity, we continue to develop them as qualities. In certain areas, we allocate empty parcels to investors for free, while canceling the allocation of parts that haven't been produced for a period of time. So far, I'd like to stress that 3.591 parcels are completely free, and 1,300 parcels are partially assigned to non-priced entrepreneurs. We've cancelled the allocation of the 1,886 parcels that remain in disinvestment due to non-investigation. We have established industrial vocational high schools in 68 OSBs, with the resources and support we provide for OSB administrations with protocols that we have done with our Ministry of National Education. We will continue to increase the number of vocational high schools. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we're developing and improving policies, programs and support that we've developed in the field of science and technology. Thanks to this work, we have become a country in the world that stands out and appreciates the activities of RD and innovation. In 2014, total RD spending reached 17.6 billion TL. In 2002, it was 5 in a thousand, and now it has reached 1 per cent. What's good about this is that the private sector has reached a 50 percent point of RD spending. Our goal is to spend 3 per cent of RD in 2023, and make sure that 66% of it is done by the private sector. We've established the Office for Effect Evaluation in order to analyse the impact of all the support we've given in the area of RD. We are taking advantage of the data provided by the Enterprise Information System in the study of impact assessments. We combined the data of almost 3 million enterprises in our country under one roof. So, thanks to this system that allows us to do very different analyses, we've been able to inventory not just the industry, but all the sectors. We also care deeply about building infrastructures for technology companies to operate in. In 2002, we raised our number of technology development areas, which were 2 to 63, to 49, to be active. See here 3,744 firms finished 18.318 projects, 8.525 projects are currently under way, the export figure is $2.4 billion, and most importantly, qualified employment has reached almost 38,239. As a ministry, we have so far used 253 million Turkish liras as grants for the infrastructure of techno parks. In our R&D reform package, we have opened the way for the establishment of specialized techno parks, for the firms in technology development areas to employ more and more qualified personnel, and for the support of design activities in the techno parks. I'd like to set up a separate parentheses in the IT valley where we're building 3 million square meters. In the first place we complete infrastructure work in the I.T. Valley, we will complete construction of 15,000 square metres of superstructure in June. The IT valley where high-tech companies will meet is a candidate not only for our country, but for one of the major technology development centers in the world. And we're giving RD central documents to our companies who want to do RD and innovation activities on their own. So far, there have been 25,372 jobs at the 244 RD center. At these centers, the 6,440 RD project was completed, 3.729 patent applications were applied and 1.108 patents were patented. Especially considering our medium-sized firms, we had reduced the number of staff needed to build an RD center from 50 to 30, and now the Council of Ministers received the authority to reduce it to 15. One of the important innovations that we bring with this reform package is the support of design centers as well as the RD center. We've also managed to get RD and design centers to take advantage of the RD discount. We believe that these steps are particularly important and revolutionary for our SMEs. We also increased the income of our professors in university-industrial co-operation projects. Together, we carried out a very important arrangement for employment at RD centers of graduates of basic sciences, and the exception of customs tax on equipment and waste materials used in RD. Now, hopefully, we'll bring the blue line to life. On this occasion, I would like to thank all of our deputies who have worked hard to bring the RD package back to life. I'd like to express my regret. See, in the Commission, our friends from the Republican People's Party criticised the RD package, but they also supported, contributed, and really matured here. (APPLAUSE) One of our naval MPs -- Mr. Kazim Arslan -- tried to contribute to both the Commission and the General Assembly, but another of our Denizli MP Mr. Basmaccı said, "We have passed R-Ge law to use some of them." That's an extremely unfortunate sentence. Everyone benefits from RD. Laws are common for everyone. We don't give exceptions to any private community. In fact, the common criticism here was in the form of wishing we could do more. I take it as a slip of the tongue, and I hope to God that this error will be corrected.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0344par0090	It's not. INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGI FIC (PEOPLE) Mr. President, the valued MPs are conducting 70 per cent of the industrial products of market surveillance and control activities in our country. So far, we're not only concerned about PGD activities for consumer rights, we're concerned about protecting the rights of our quality producers. In 2015, we conducted 95,029 different model products, brand control. As a result of the inspections, we have banned the supply of 113 products, which pose a risk to human health, life and property safety among the 24,722 products that are inappropriate, and we have decided to collect what was previously offered. We also imposed a total of 9.1 million Turkish lira administrative fines due to the irregularities detected. Mr. President, we run the Competitive Sectors Programme in the first term of the EU Pre-Accession Aid Programme. With this programme, we run 47 projects with 490m euros budgeted in 43 cities east of Turkey. In this scope, we have implemented projects such as the sustainable Tourism Project in Mardin, Giresun in Giresun, and Kars/ta in the history of Kars Kenti, and the Centre for Tea Research and Applications in Rize. Hopefully, in the coming period, we'll spread 405m-euro budget projects throughout Turkey. Mr. President, if you don't mind, I'd like a few more minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0345par0094	Of course, Minister. Here you go. I'd like to share with you briefly our work on TÜBITAK. So far, we have provided support for 3,200 projects by 2,206 companies, as part of programs where TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK) encourages RD and innovation activities for the private sector. We donated about 142 million lira to the projects of the academy and the private sector in priority areas. With the Science and Social Sciences Scholarship Programme, we grant a scholarship of up to 2,000 liras to our students who prefer this department and have made the first 25,000 in Turkey. We've been working hard to promote our science centers across the country. We've established the science center in Konya, Alexei, Bursa and Elazığ, and, hopefully, we'll have the science center in this year. We've also concentrated our work on the domestic production of exhibitions at this science center. Again, I would like to express in particular that our sensitive guidance kit, influential bomb, satha, medium-range ammunition, electronic ID card, RASAT and Skyturk-2 satellites have come to life. We also developed a national operating system that our public institutions, SMEs, and our people can safely use as part of a national software development project, Pardus. In the near future, we will complete the Pardus migration, and in time, we will provide important incentives and support for all our public institutions to cross over to Pardus. We've developed a real-time operating system that functions as a brain in our vehicles, such as domestic aircraft, helicopters, ships, as part of our national software understanding. With the High Mighty Laser System Project, we are developing the infrastructure and laser weapons of laser systems in only a few countries around the world. We're running projects like local cancer medicine, pandemic medicine against the flu. Hopefully, we'll bring the Turkish Republic back to life before 2020. Here, hopefully, with you, we would like to implement new arrangements that will ensure that TÜBITAK will be an authoritarian institution, not a competition with the private sector, but a quality, basic and leading RD. We wish to move a bill of law on this matter to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I hope. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this is the end of my term. Actually, we have a lot to say, but I just want to say that we've tripled our support budget in the 2016 budget, and we've also made a significant increase in the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. I'd like to thank you very much for your support for the passing of our budget of 8.6 billion Turkish liras. I hereby salute our House. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the government, the last speaker is Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting, Mr. Faruk Çelik. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is twenty minutes, Mr. Steel. Mr. President, I stand before you on the basis of the 2016 budget of our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I salute you all. I also ask God's mercy on our martyrs, and thank you very much for the evaluation and talks on the budget of my Ministry, Okan Gaytancıoğlu, Orhan Sarıbal, Mazlum Nurlu, Elder Durmaz, İsmail Ok, Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı, Rafet Sezen, Mehmet Akyürek, Uğur Kaleli, Abdullah Özturk, Mehmet Öğurk, Recep Guests, all groups. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, agriculture, which has led to the creation of many civilizations throughout history, was very important yesterday and very important today. We all know that 40 percent of the world's population today supports agriculture. In addition, agriculture produces 4.2 per cent of the $78 trillion global product. So we're discussing the budget of a strategic sector. Of course, the fact that it's important as of yesterday makes it necessary for us to assess the importance of the future. The population of the world is increasing rapidly, as you know. Today, over 7 billion people live on Earth. When we consider a world where 10 billion people will live in 2050, and there are about 1 billion people who are hungry today in 7 billion people who are poor, and you think about the five billion hectares of arable land in the world, and it only uses 1.3 billion hectares, we have to think about what kind of disaster that world's going to face when we come to 2050, when we come to 10 billion people. There are wars for him, there will be wars, but I want to express that we do not ignore that these wars will be on food in the coming period, and it is inevitable that the agricultural sector will be one of the most important topics in the coming period, and that when we see this painting, we need to develop rational agricultural policies that are consistent with the environment, which are observing efficiency, efficiency, sustainability, and sustainability. Honourable lawmakers, Turkey is a country with advantages in agriculture and livestock, compared to many countries. We have 23.9 million hectares of agriculture, we have 6 million hectares of water, we have 3 million farmers, we have 14.6 million mera fields, we have 1 million hectares of water, we have 21.6 million hectares of forest. When we look at these aspects, we have a positive and hopeful picture of the future, but it shouldn't prevent us from looking more closely into the future. Because, unfortunately, in Turkey, we can see that agriculture -- despite the recent legal arrangements -- is still coming out of agriculture. So, globally, we need to know that 12 million hectares of land per year are out of agriculture, while Turkey has slightly -- despite the laws that we take out -- we have to know that we have land that goes out of agriculture. So I'd like to express our sensitivity to these issues, especially the distorted urbanization. Our colleagues here have expressed that our mera fields are shrinking, that's not true, let's just say that. Today, our mera area is 14.6 million hectares; in 1998, our mera presence was 12.3 million hectares, and today it has reached 14.6. It is extremely important for our farmers to increase in prosperity and to leave a more productive Turkey for future generations to assess that potential. Despite recent global financial crises and political tensions, Turkey has achieved significant success in the agriculture sector, making significant distances. Our very valuable fellow lawmakers, friends who evaluated the groups for these issues, gave important figures. I'd like to skip the point by giving you a few numbers. I want to give you as many numbers as I can in this short period of time. Our domestic GDP has risen to 125 billion euros, our exports have increased to $16 billion, $700 million, and our imports have been $11 billion,244 million. Turkey has spent $5.6 billion more on foreign trade in agriculture and food products in 2015. The current interest rate in subsidies has been dropped from 0 to 8.25 per cent, down here. Besides, when we look at the amount of cash support provided to the agricultural sector, we see that it goes up every year. From 1.8 billion to 11.6 billion today, I would like to say in particular that between 2003 and 15, a total of $78.6.6 billion in cash has been funded. With the removal of the VAT in fertilizer and bait included, I'd like to point out that we provided the manufacturer with 14 billion euros in support in 2016. As the ministry, I'd like to point out that we care about the safety of food supplies as much as the safety of food supply. 134 food control labs work day and night, and in 2015 735,000 audits were conducted at food production and mass consumption sites. The audits imposed a fine of $65,680,000 in administrative fines. The prosecution has filed charges against 92 firms. I would also like to point out that in four years, the 818 products of 418 companies producing and copying food were publicly exposed. Dear lawmakers, our efforts to protect and develop agricultural land are continuing rapidly. You know, in 2014, you adopted a very important law on this matter in the Supreme Assembly and it went into effect. From that day forward to this day, the law is a key resource for us at the point where the land cannot be divided within the framework of this law. The collection of 450,000 hectares of land in 1961-2002 took place during this long period, while I would like to say that between 2003 and 15, 4.6 million hectares were massed. We're also starting work on land use planning to prevent extravaganza use of our agricultural land this year. We've come to the final stage of work on the implementation of protection measures by determining major agricultural plains. The borders of 106 plains have been drawn and opened for preliminary examination. Seed-making is a subject that is often considered. The seeding industry has made significant improvements in our support of seed production and the use of certified seeds. In 2015, we produced 896 thousand tons of seeds and exported more than $100 million seeds. As of today, 95 percent of the wheat seed is developed by our ministry, 100 percent of the seed, 100 percent of the pea seed, and 50 percent of the tomato seed. We've also taken significant distances in organic agriculture. In 2015, we have increased the organic agriculture area, which is 3 per thousand, to 2 per cent. Hopefully, we're aiming to increase organic agriculture to 5 percent over the next ten years. I've just made a brief statement about the work we've done on the mera, the active use of the mera. As a result of our support for the need for brute bait for animalism, the plantage area reached 2.6 million hectares in 2014. It's about TARSEM, you know, the Agricultural Insurance Pool has been established during our administration, and there's important work being done against our farmers in this sense of disasters, but I'd like to point out that we're also continuing our work on the development of capacity, the scope. As a result of the work we've done on the agricultural sector over the past thirteen years, our production of field plants from 58 million tons to 65 million tons, fruit products, tea and spice products from 14 million tons to 19 million tons, our production of vegetables from 25 million tons to 30 million tons, our production of wheat from 19.5 million tons to 22.6 million tons, our production of corn is 6.4 million tons, from 920,000 tons to 920,000 tons, our production of sunflowers from 850,000 tonnes to 1.7 million tons, our production of wheat is 2.6 million tons, from 2.6 million tons, from 9.6 million tons. As a result of our work in the field of livestock, our production of milk, which was 8.4 million tonnes in 2002, reached 18.6 million tonnes in 2015. Our production of 420,000 tons of red meat has reached 1,150,000 tons by 2015. Our production of 696 thousand tons of chicken has increased to 1,909,000 tons, our honey production of 74,000 tons, our water products have increased to 225,000 tonnes in thirteen years, to 61 thousand tons. These numbers are important, these increases are important, but I want to express that we don't think they're enough, especially on the basis of these budget talks, and I'm just saying, for this reason, we have more to do. I'm not interested in agriculture, as in many issues... the matter of agriculture is not a party issue, but in the matter of agriculture, it's a matter of concern to our millions of farmers. And I want to say that we are open to all kinds of criticism about this, and I also say that we are open to all kinds of ideas about this dynamic sector, and we are in a very intense work of how to do the best, how to do the best, if we have all of the information that we have, if we have all of them together with the dynamics of all of our provinces in the seven regions. I believe that from all of these evaluations, all of this participating understanding, there will be many, many productive results. That's what I'm saying as of today, but I'm telling you to keep an eye on us. I hope to make it very clear that we will continue to take bold steps in this area. Of course, time goes by fast, and I have a lot of things to say here, but I'd like to talk to you about the issues of valuable speakers. The 8 per cent VAT received at the service is not in the application. That's not true. I'd like to say that there's a five percent discount on milk oaths, five percent on meat chicken oaths, up to eight percent on egg oaths. I'd also like to mention the positive development in the ammonium sulfate, which is 14 per cent, 18 per cent, 16 per cent, 24 per cent, 21 per cent, 22 per cent after VAT, in favour of the farmer. The production of mixed bait has reached 20 million tons at 5.2 million tons. We have now reached 20 million tons of mixed bait. When you look at imports, we have imports from 2.6 million tons to 6.9 million tons. But here we import straws about our production." he was told. In particular, in terms of information, I submit that 26 million tons of hay were produced in 2015, and we exported 22,000 tons. So that's what I'm saying in terms of fixing that information. In agriculture, foreign trade... has been compared to exports and imports. We exported a total of 151 billion dollars from 2003 to 1515. How much is our import? $98 billion. I'd like to point out that there's a 53 billion-dollar difference. In 2002, when exporting 1,480 types of agricultural and food products to 161 countries, there are 1,707 different types of countries in 2014, there are 29 increases in the number of countries; there are 227 increases in the number of countries. An example of Holland was given. Look, guys, let's not mix things up. The Netherlands doesn't export products; the Netherlands imports, processing and selling products. The Netherlands's agricultural product is $14.5 billion. There's $14.5 billion in agricultural revenues in Holland, but $70 billion in agricultural imports, and $108 billion in agricultural exports. So let's not mix agricultural product with exports and imports. Let's see here that he exports all this material by taking agricultural raw materials. Dear friends, on the other hand, we imported 38 million tons of wheat in our country between 2002 and 2015. You know, they say you import wheat. Now, let's see, between 2002 and 2015, we imported 38 million tons of wheat and paid $11.7 billion, but at the same time, when we looked at wheat-based exports, we exported 47 million tons. We took the wheat, we did it just like we did in the Dutch example; we got 38 million, we exported 47 million tons. So we can say very freely that we are net exporters in wheat, and all the numbers say that. In 2002, we were number 11 in the U.S. exports, and we are now number 1 in the exports of the un, and we're exporting our flour to 118 countries. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We were number 7 in the export of pasta, today we are number 2 in the export of pasta, after Italy, and exporting to 145 countries. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In 2002, rice production met 37 per cent of consumption, while in 2002 our rice production met 37 per cent of consumption, while today's rice was 74%. So I'm going to say this so there's no confusion in these numbers. Now, sir, there's been a lot of animal assessments of the meat from here. Now we don't have meat imports before 2002. Dear friends, I'd like to give you the following number: between 1986 and 1996, in ten years 232,000 tons of meat, 1 million 462,000 cattle were imported. It was imported between 1987 and 2002, 26,000 head of livestock. I'm giving you the numbers before the AK PARTI power, which means it hasn't been done. I'm just saying it for him, or I'm not saying this to start an argument. In 2002, our consumption of meat per person weighed 6 kilograms, while today it weighed 14 kilograms. I just told you about the production. Our production has reached 1 million and 150,000 tons from 420,000 tons. I'd like to point out that Turkey has traveled very important distances in the world's production of meat. The total resources you provide for my organization are 1 percent of the law. You said it correctly, but let me put it this way. Mr. President, I think I'm gonna need five minutes. Five minutes... Let's hope we can get it together in two minutes, but let's take it for five minutes. Sir, there's not only agricultural support from the budget, there's TMO buys, credit subsidies, export support, agricultural irrigation investments, and a lot of pens, so there's a lot of support beyond the 14 billion I've just expressed. When you collect these, our illegitimate domestic product is $1 trillion, 963 billion, and all of these benefits add up to 19 billion, 592 million. So when you look at the ratio, it will be clear that it was 1.03 in 2014 and 1 per cent in 2015. Also, maybe some of our friends won't accept that we should say, OECD says that the proportion of agricultural support in Turkey in 2014 is 2.3 percent in illegal domestic product. By God, it's not my fault, it's OECD's saying that. Regarding the TMO, TMO paid producers 4.2 billion euros for a total of 5.6 million tonnes of product from 178 million producers during 2015-2016, when the record of production in wheat, corn, and rice was broken. Let me make it clear here that there is no financial difficulty in TMO. Now, the milk issue has been evaluated. Dear friends, the School Milk Program has been going on once for five years, and will continue this year and then again. Now, what did we do? Is there any more milk? I do. As of this period, there will be a few more months of milk in this period, since it is now a period of lactation. I didn't specify $1.15, 115. Who's here at the Milk Council? There are manufacturers and there are industrialists, and they all sat down together, and they said, "The price of milk is going to be $1.15." We -- as a minister -- have no resources. So when there's more milk here, what do we do when we get to 18.6 million tons? We increased our support for the supply of raw milk to turn into milk dust, and we said: "Turn it into milk dust, you get 3,000 liras, and we'll give you the support for $4,500 per ton of milk powder." They said, "Thank you very much. There's no problem. We're going to turn this supply into powdered milk right away, so there won't be any more of it, and then the manufacturer won't be a victim. There's, like, 75 cents in here, there's no such price. I had Balıkesir call the county manager, and I want the friends to know there's no such price. Those who decide to sell milk under 115 cents have no rights. When I say that, I don't want to interfere with the free market... There's no such thing. We don't set the price of meat, we don't set the price of milk. We're on the side of dialogue, sitting together, making decisions together. No one has the right to wrong 78 million, and no one has the right to wrong a farmer who is burned in the sun with his sweat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, we're here to support $4,500. And for the first time, we've given milk a boost. For the first time, we have encouraged exports of wet dairy products. So that's what we've got for exporters of cheese and stuff like that. Now, one thing I'm saying is, if someone's exploiting it, I'm telling you very clearly, the Meat and Milk Foundation is an intervention agency, but it just needs a few months' time. So what I'm saying is, those of you who are more than milk, turn your milk into powdered milk, as the Meat and Milk Foundation, we'll take it as the Ministry. Anyone else? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] What are you going to say? In these three four months ahead of us, give support to this, and we will solve the problem. We have given support, 4,500. It's not enough. If it's not enough, we're taking it. So, no one exploits the manufacturer, no one tries to victimize him, we're on the side of that farmer who's going to kiss his forehead and hand, and we're going to continue to side with him. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've talked about plant production here, there are increases in all areas. Sir, isn't this agriculture a very dynamic area, a very common area, troubled areas? Of course it will. The opposition's task will be to bring them up, but I'm expressing our determination to resolve them here. Dear friends, I really have something to say, but I'd like to make one more point. One, we're taking our support policies over the next semester under the scope of impact analysis. So we're coming out of a lot of pen support; we're going to explain a more narrowed-down, numerically low, support policy that the farmer will know what he's getting. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Second, we'll activate the basin-based field support from 1/1/2017. We're making significant changes to the administrative structure, and now every agricultural business in Turkey will have a technicality. How many agricultural businesses do you have? Two million? We're organizing our administrative structure to become a technical member of 2 million businesses, and we're about to complete... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, two minutes... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Minister, I've given you five more minutes. Minister, I'll give you one more minute to complete your vows. As I've just expressed in livestock, we continue our work on growers, food and milk districts. TIGEM fields have been touched on. I would like to point out that the study of seed and breeding will be heavily weighted. TMO and ESK will perform their regulation duties, and we'll move to the licensed storage facility and set up the product market quickly. I'd like to express that we're now going to produce agricultural products from these unnecessary discussions. We'll continue our inspections and work on the market's shelf and field prices. And finally, I'm saying that 72,515 personnel and we're conducting all of this work. I'll tell the food engineers, farm engineers, vets, we'll take 2,071 personnel from here right now. We'll have our engineers in this short period. I'm also telling us that we're going to take a thousand employees within the framework of the relevant organizations. I'd like to thank all of you for our verbally contributing friends and your votes. I wish you the best of our budget. Thank you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0346par0181	Mr. Secretary, you didn't say anything about nuts.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0347par0182	Mr. Minister promised 20,000 casts in 2011. Mehdi Eker promised 20,000 casts. You know you can't solve any problems with 2,500.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0345par0183	Members of parliament, now the final word against you is for Mr. Niyazi Nefi Kara. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Kara, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0348par0186	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the 2016 budget of the institutions we have discussed. I salute the High Council. The budgets of very important institutions were discussed here today. In terms of our country's security weaknesses inside and outside, the National Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism in terms of our development and the distress of our farmers, and the budgets of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, which our universities should open the way for free academic and scientific work. I think there is no need to talk more about the budgets of these institutions and the shortcomings of the Court's reports and inadequacies. And even if we do, while you're voting here, not according to your conscience or rights, but most of you are voting, not knowing what you're voting for, not knowing what you're voting for. You don't even know if these institutions have been actively fulfilling their obligations. For example, if the Ministry of National Defense had really been an institution that carried out the safety and defence of our country, our citizens and our citizens, the six soldiers who were killed in Diyarbakir lice would have been transferred to their posts by armored vehicles, not by vans, or perhaps the Russian aircraft would have been known to fall asleep overnight, in any case, but in the case of entering Syria, there would have been a number of reckless missiles on that side. If the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism had really thought about the development of country agriculture, livestock and the future of its farmer, they would not have allowed animalism to develop. What we've come to in agriculture are far worse, dear friends. The most important problems of those who make a living with agriculture -- we're constantly talking about them from these platforms, but for some reason the AKP ministers resist being indifferent -- are that the prices of products remain the same in exchange for continued increase in labour, fertilizer, diesel, electricity and irrigation costs. Under the influence of the crisis with Russia, the agricultural sector has officially hit the bottom of my electoral district, Antalya, with a downward acceleration across Turkey. Russia's embargo has led to a major collapse in the age of vegetables and fruit exports. In January 2016, the export of the narciatrist had a 34% decline in the amount compared to January 2015, and 38 per cent in the value. Losses are impossible to make up for in a short period of time with new markets. Because it's very important that alternative new markets are big enough to cover the gap. Even if new markets are found, there are 60-80 percent price reductions. When you look at western Mediterranean export figures in the first two months of 2016 alone, you will see that the export of tomatoes is down by 32% of the age of fruit and vegetable exports. In 2015, the money-sized export of tomatoes approaching $40 million was reduced to $20 million in losses, while the export of tomatoes to Russia on a $23m scale was not achieved due to the embargo. As you can see, your wrong foreign policy has also affected Turkey's economic and development policies in the short term. In addition, the new market search was launched so as not to victimize the manufacturer, while Turkish Airlines moved from euro to dollar in cargo transport, making a 12 per cent increase. Dear friends, last week, because of the Russian crisis, the Prime Minister made a statement about tourism: we will support those who bring 400 thousand tourists. Can't he just bring 5 grand? Can't we support those who bring 5,000 to 10 grand from tourists who don't come to Turkey alone with your foreign policy? In the last month, 111 hotels have been sold in Alanya. What are we doing in agriculture when this is the support package for the tourism industry? We have the same problem with loans. Logistics needs support in many areas, from providing air and cargo support for remote markets to reaching new markets and lower production costs. And our farmers who work in agriculture... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the good news awaits you, Minister. Dear friends, our agricultural engineer friends have said a lot. I'd like to...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0349par0197	Mr. President, the new congressman.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0350par0198	Mr. Kara, finish your words. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0351par0200	Sir, I'm new, too.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0350par0201	Because you're new.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0351par0202	If it's two minutes... That's how much it's improved in agriculture. Do you know when the hay was imported in this country? And there's another note from my friend Okan Gaytancıoğlu, who says: "Importing $2.5 billion in wheat and exporting $1 billion... which is better?" Also, one last question. I spoke to you at the airport. Thank you. You went to Demre. Did you get paid for Demre? Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0352par0208	Thank you, Mr. Kara. Congressmans, the talks on the seventh round are complete. Now, we're going to question-answer for 20 minutes. Ten minutes of the 20 minutes belong to the MPs, the rest of the ten minutes belong to the ministers. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who are entering the system in order. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0353par0213	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to address the government authorities. Our province of Hatay is ranked 12th in the tax payment, but it is ranked 52th and lower in the service purchase. Why is this so, even though there are 400,000 Syrians? Do you mean to do something about Hatay, or is there a special reason we don't know about? Also, Mr. Secretary of Defense has just mentioned asylum seekers. A NATO commander, the ISID, said it spreads like cancer through asylum seekers. What kind of precautions are you taking? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0354par0217	Mr. Pine... no. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0355par0219	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Minister of Agriculture first. You're also a Bursian who you're involved with -- you're also following investments there -- the foundation of a high-speed train was laid down in 2012. It would have ended in 2016, but the Governor of Bursa announced the other day that the project had been thrown out, and 480 million went to waste like this. I mean, we're going through these budgets, but we can't accept the waste of this citizen's money. We asked him in writing, and I'm curious about his fate. Second, there have been around 150 layoffs from the Turkey Jockey Club in the last three months. What's the reason for all this? The Minister of Industry also mentioned that the auto testing centre will be established in Yenişehir. And in this one, for three or four years, the same way, it's been determined, it doesn't fit, it's been said to be slaughtered, it's been redefined, there's been new problems. I mean, how can we make these projects more realistic?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0356par0223	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0357par0224	My question to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism: 1) The table is sold for 6 Turkish liras in 2015 and for 4-4.5 Turkish liras this year. Do you intend to implement the grape distribution project to schools to support the market? 2) When will you fulfill your promise of support for the plants you gave our farmers? 3) Turkey is a textile-producing country. Cotton production has been very low since 2002. What kind of support do you intend to give to make cotton more? 4) Do you intend to remove taxes on the farmer's masoth? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0358par0230	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0359par0231	Mr. President, my question to Mr. Minister of Agriculture is that the crisis with Russia has had a terrible effect on sectors and representatives, especially on our farmers who deal with narcissistic production and greenhouse farming. Sera production will peak in April. 1) Is there a new alternative for our farmer who lost a great market like Russia? 2) The exporter's property returning from Russia has been compensated. When these products were put on the market, prices went down a lot. Would you care to pay for the farmer's losses? My advice: For example, aircraft can be served a fresh-squeezed citrus instead of health - harmful juices and acidic beverages. With around 180 million passengers being transported in air transport, both our consumer and producer will be pleased and benefited. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0360par0236	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0361par0237	Science, Industry and Technology Minister: BIKO has been an institution that has employed Niğde and its environment for 40 years and has given value to the economy. WHEN Karde, one of the four facilities of the BIKO, was shut down due to market conditions and economic progress, nearly 300 workers were left unemployed, workers were victims. Do you intend to make an attempt to provide loans by public banks, long-term loans, and re-employment workers? To the Minister of Agriculture: Potatoes and apples remained in the warehouse in Niğde, over 200,000 tons of potatoes began to grow, and there is no possibility of selling abroad. Are emergency potatoes and apples thought to be marketed through the Metropolitan municipalities, or do you have a different solution? Niğde Kızılça, is it considered to be an animal-organized industrial zone in the Çukurkuyu region? The Minister of National Defence: Is it considered to increase and develop military factory capacity, established in the Bor (also referred to as the people) in 1964? As a regional economy and a business area, this facility is very important, and there's absolutely no way...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0362par0242	Mr. Aksu...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0363par0243	Thank you. Mr. Steel, the price of the ceiling in the meat has not been effective, prices continue to rise. After your statement, the wholesalers didn't lower the price, the responsibility for the citizen remained above the small butcher shop. Are you going to continue your attempts to address the shortage of livestock and the lowness of production by import or by futile means? Is it true that the agricultural counselling practice where agricultural engineers and technicians work will be lifted? How do you feel about contractual work demands under 4/B? Do you have any initiatives in the use of all agricultural benefits for our farmers who farm in many parts of our country, especially the districts of Çaktinca and Silivri of Istanbul? Do you think there's an intervention to prevent a decline in the price of nuts under $9? How are you going to compensate for the nut maker?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0364par0248	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0365par0249	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ministers, your government's budget has unfortunately caused a great deal of disappointment in the wider part of society. I'd like to voice the voice of the majority in the House. First of all, how much is in your budget for pensioners? When do you plan to address the problems of this group, which the government finds young and the employer elderly? Second, more than 1 million candidates entering the 2014 KPSS are waiting for news of a central appointment in which they will be able to expect the return of their efforts with hope. How long will you cast for our young ones in the 4th and final appointment? Third, you know the lack of intensive care capacity in hospitals. It's not in human life, it's not an hour, it's a minute too important. How much did you put in the budget to increase their intensive care capacity? And finally, how much more did you set aside in the budget to deal with the economic problems of our veterans and their families who have risked their lives for the safety of our country? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0366par0256	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0367par0257	Thank you, Mr. President. TÜİK has announced the results of the address-based population records in the past months, and the results are no surprise for the information Giresun again. My countrymen continued to emigrate last year, and in one year we were less than 3,200. The population of Giresun, which was 523,819 in the 2000s, decreased by 100,000, to 426 thousand. Giresun is at the top of the major immigration provinces. Our population in Istanbul alone increased by 70,000 more to 495 thousand. This is because during the thirteen-year period of AKP governments, dozens of public and private sector facilities were shut down and there were no job and employment investments. Other than that, no institution is working on the cause or consequences of the migration from our province. We expect the government's concerned minister to explain what measures the science will take to protect at least the current population. I'm sorry the Minister never mentioned the nuts. The agricultural engineers are waiting for the appointment. Your information is available. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0368par0264	Mr. Tor...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0369par0265	Thank you. My question is for Mr. Faruk Çelik, our Minister of Agriculture. My constituency is about Kahramanmarash. Some of the speakers mentioned on your ministry's budget mentioned increased irrigation fields. One: Did you open the land, even if it were one tenth of the government during the 14 years of AKP power in the Plain of Afşin Elbistan, one of the major plains of our country, to water the land? Two: After the handover of the Citadel Watering Unit, built by the DSI during the past administrations, farmers have been thrown out, especially because they can't pay their electricity and personnel debts, and because they can't pay their debts due to increasing interest, local farmers are devastated. For this reason, there are no water farms in thousands of acres of land that have been used in the past to store vegetables. Will you, as a government, have any support for restoring the Under-Strike, to lighten our farmer's misery at all? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0370par0270	Mr. Zeybek... No. Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0371par0272	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I honor our martyrs with mercy. Mr. Secretary of Defense, Turkey has been fighting with soldiers, special operations and police in the name of domestic security and counterterrorism for many years. In particular, what is the cost of the conflict after June 7th, the destruction of Turkey? How many of our security guards, PKK people, and civilian citizens who died in these conflicts? Has our trade with our neighbours, Middle Eastern countries, the European Union and other countries been calculated for our progress in Syria, and our damage to tourism and agriculture? How long has it been calculated? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0372par0277	Congressmans, the rest of the time...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0373par0278	Mr. President, we still have ten seconds.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0372par0279	All right, let's get one more question. Mr. Grandson... no. Mr. Kayan... no. Mr. Charter, please.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0374par0283	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my question is to our Secretary of State. I gave a speech today about the Defense Industry Undersecretary budget. I asked for information on millions of dollars and billions of dollars in investments in this conversation, but our Minister didn't mention any of that in his response speech. I'd like to make one more important point. The transformation of these ATAK helicopters, is the final montage given to a private company? If so, what is the cost of this business in Tusash? How much is the company paid? Another question: The law passed on March 12th through September 12th to eliminate the victims of officers and petty officers from the Turkish Armed Forces has not been a cure for trouble. Do you consider a legal arrangement to eliminate the victims of soldiers who have been cut off without the Minister's approval and verdict without a verdict? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0375par0288	Mr. Ministers... First of all, Mr. Light, you? Yes. Here you go. Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to thank all my fellow lawmakers who have contributed with their questions and opinions. There is absolutely no way we can participate in Mr. Halal's assessment of Hatay. Hatay is one of Turkey's most important provinces. It is also one of the provinces that we cherish for the sake of his participation in the motherland in 1940. At this point, I'm the only one interested in my own Ministry, and right now we're lending nearly $200 million to the furniture industry site. Again, we continue our work on the shoe store industry site, which continues to be nationalized in Reyhan and Erzin OSB. Hatay Hassa is one of the three major production centres we want to build in Turkey. Currently, our Transport Ministry is conducting a very important project to connect the Hassa region to Alexander by tunneling under the Amanos Mountains in Hatay. This is just a few examples that I know briefly. Of course, our government really cares about Hatay. We don't agree with the evaluations at this point. Regarding Mr. Kayishoglu's auto-test center, about the test center in Burma... see, right now, the Council of Ministers' decision of this place has been established -- the estate, the treasure -- the land has been given; plus, we've made a 57 million-dollar official and we're starting construction right now, this year. There is no turning back now, or will it be like this, or will it be like this? There is no cause for concern. Mr. Gürer asked about the matter. Since the Ministry is not in our area, I can't give a clear answer right now, but let our friends take care of it and get the answer to Mr. Gürer. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0376par0300	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll answer a few questions, then I'll give them to Faruk Bey, and if I don't answer them, I'll report them in writing. A congressman asked us about our number of martyrs after these operations started. We have 219 martyrs from July 20, 2015 as of March 2, 2016. Mr. Chartin asked if the transfer of the AKAK helicopter was given to a private company. It is not given to a private company; it comes directly from Italy; it is assembled by TUSAS. Another thing is, it's about refugees coming in. You have stated that a European official or a NATO official, such as cancer, has spoken the term.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0377par0305	NATO.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0376par0306	Something in NATO. Of course, we do not consider asylum seekers like cancer.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0377par0308	I didn't think so.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0376par0309	I see, he's the West's assessment, but so, we're like... we've kept the open door policy, and if we'd closed it to everyone, we'd say it was very clear at one point -- we all came from one place -- they didn't come from the Caucasus, they didn't come from the Balkans, they didn't come from the Middle East. There wouldn't be any Polonezville, there wouldn't be no Albanian village, there wouldn't be no New Bosnia. Nor did Pir Sultan Abdal come from Belh. So this is everyone's home, so we don't think about stopping them, that's the first thing. We have an open door policy, that's what we think. Oh, that's what we do, and when another party comes to power, it can close the border, or it can take the one from the north and close the one from the south, which I think is a different political choice.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0378par0310	Let's open all the borders, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0376par0311	Another issue, again, is, as they say, about immigration, of course, and Sivas, who's my science as a congressman, faces the same problem, but this is inevitable, so let's be very clear about it. To travel from villages to cities is much larger than any other place in the world. The population of Paris is much larger than elsewhere, in rural areas. It is normal that Istanbul, Ankara, and İzmir are more than the other countryside. Today, the percentage of people living in the country in the U.S. or in Europe is two percent, the ratio of three to five, and the ratio of those living in the country in Turkey is more than 20 per cent. If Turkey is going to be among the 10 developed countries, it has to be economically reduced, but in order to keep the inhabitants of the village, we must have rural development, irrigable areas, our village must be met with watery agriculture. We saw for ourselves that there was no migration after the migratory in a village in Sivas. So rural development is only about keeping the population in agriculture or rural areas. But let's see, I'm saying that neither America nor any country in Europe has a population rate of 20 percent rural. Another deputy of ours... needs the rights of relatives and veterans in our ministry... you know, now the responsibility for these matters is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Therefore, we have fulfilled many demands beyond compare with the past, but there are certainly new demands, and we do our best to do so. I'd like to say one last sentence. Since it really belongs to many of our ministry -- it's the association of martyrs and veterans who visit, I said to one of them, "We have martyrs, but America can have soldiers who die in Afghanistan, France in Mali. I mean, every country in another country. So whatever rights they give them, please take out a chart, and that demand is in place, it is true. France, England or America provide it, but we neglected it. Let us see ourselves. When I said, "The rights to martyrs and veterans are provided by Turkey more than all these Western countries," he said.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0379par0314	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0376par0315	No, the same offer to all of you... in the United States, France, Italy -- these have operations abroad -- you can tell me if we know what their government knows about them, whatever they know about them, whatever we don't -- that France knows about it. We'll look at it, if it's true, we'll do it all. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0380par0317	It is not right to equate America with the values of our nation. Mr. Secretary, it's not right to put our soldiers and American soldiers together, ours are martyrs.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0376par0318	That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0381par0319	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Steel, the remaining time is yours, you have 25 seconds. GIDE, AGREE AND ANIMALITY SEARCH (Shanliurfa) ▪ Twenty-five seconds... Sir, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to express that 2,071 foods, agriculture, veterinary, map engineer personnel will be taken this year and 1,000 contract staff will be taken to relevant institutions on budget. Secondly, I personally went to the Demre disaster site, as stated. It is currently being paid $20 million to some 300 manufacturers who are insured. The President of Prime Ministerial Economics, Social and Cultural Affairs was also informed by our Ministry for the allocation of disaster grants. The work on non-insurance is being carried out by that unit. Bait plants support for our 52 counties has been paid $190 million in January, and the support of the feeding plants of the rest of our provinces is being paid as of today. The TC ID number has been deposited into our manufacturers' account today, which ended with 02. ▪ Will you support the cotton? As you know, in 2014, our support for kilograms at 55 cents was applied last year as 65 cents, with a 20 per cent increase, and next year, we'll move on to the most ecological and economicly appropriate basins -- the basin-based production -- we'll continue to support the cotton. Since horse rehabilitation is being reduced, there is an exit from the workers at this jockey club due to the shrinking of the system. The OSB application is not available at the moment in Niğde. As support for Hatay, in terms of agriculture alone, in 2003-2015, we provided agricultural support for a Hatay of 1.5 billion. In terms of potatoes, let me put it this way: there are 4.1 million tons of potato production in 2014, while in 2015 there are 4.7 million tons; there are 14 percent increase. Our monthly consumption is 300,000 tons. So the stock is now talking about 710,000 tons of potatoes, which is 710,000 tons, which is a two-month supply of potatoes. About that, our congressman friends are on our doorstep every day. We're in pursuit, we're in touch with our Ministry of Economics. If necessary, I'd like to state here that we're prepared to take a step towards exporting. Will agriculture counselling continue as of this year? I'd like to point out that the system that we've just established is now integrating. Another thing is about raisins. We gave it to the schools last year, and we're still working on raisins this year. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Secretary, we'll give you one more minute. I didn't say anything about nuts, I didn't say anything about any product, I gave a general speech. We had a very good meeting about the nut at Tripoli. I'll put it this way: the Rekolte makes its prediction three cuts. One goes up, one goes down, and here's another one of those rock-and-roll games. From now on, the decision we've made will be made by the Ministry from June 1st to June 7th, interviewing all sections; one. Second: TMO will be activated. I'd like to leave it in trust. We're allowing those who say, "I want to leave the nut in TMO"; two. Third, we pressed the button on the renovating of the nut gardens, and we're going to make sure that the gardens are renovated quickly. Fourth: We must not break the chain of manufacturers, troops, councils and exporters. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I finish my speech?
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0382par0341	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, of course, shares his enthusiasm as a new Minister for taking over a wreck. In that respect, he's taking more time off than any other minister. We're aware of the wreckage you're carrying, but I hope you'll do well.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0383par0342	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0381par0343	Minister, one last minute, no more. Yes, I've taken over with very good data, the Ministry, hopefully, and we'll continue to improve. Let me put it this way: there's a monopoly on nuts. I'm saying that the chain of manufacturers-exporters shouldn't be broken. It's not right to remove the exporter from the manufacturer, the manufacturer from the exporter. This is the one that has to come out of the Black Sea region, especially in all our provinces.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0384par0346	Exporters are importers, Mr. Secretary. But we've moved the complaint to the Competitive Board about the monopoly creation. We want you to know that we're going to act on the data we're going to get. Let's put it this way: It's also true of the nuts that farmers say about the whole thing. In the face of the actions against the manufacturer here, they will find the government against them, and I will make it very clear. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Speak, Mr. Secretary, how can you lift this wreck... On another subject, we've ordered the potato. Our policy on meat is to develop animalism, to increase the number of animals in the market... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There is no sale of meat under non-real prices by importing meat. We're going to move on by increasing our animal presence. So it didn't go up, did it? I want all the manufacturers to know, I say, fill up the stables. Thank you very much. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Let's give the Minister a few more minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0385par0359	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0386par0360	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0387par0361	Mr. President, Mr. Clumsy is a...
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0385par0362	Yes, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0386par0365	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, when a perception operation was cunningly answering the question I asked, he did a demagogue, a demagogue, as if we were against asylum seekers. You've twisted it. In this regard, we are not against innocent asylum seekers. The question I asked was very clear and clear. I told you a statement from a NATO commander. What are your precautions? You could have said: Our project is this, don't worry about it. But we've had our concerns, we've seen them. Where was the biggest explosion in the history of Turkey? It happened in Ankara. How did it happen? Defensive weakness, intelligence weakness. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's what I asked, Mr. Secretary. We're not against asylum seekers. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0388par0370	Turkey's not the inn, brother, if you like God. Of course he's gonna check it out.
tbmm-2016-03-04sit05spe0389par0371	Well, Mr. Clumsy, thank you. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2014 CIRCLE AND VICTIMAL PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION AND DETECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account Members of lawmakers, I will now have you read separately and vote on the transfer of budgets in the seventh round, respectively. I'd like to submit to your votes that the national defence ministry will be transferred to the central management budget of 2016: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 329,391.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 26.107.507,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 10,286,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 4.320,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 26.451.504,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The National Ministry of Defence has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2016. I submit to your votes that the National Defense Department's central management account of 2014 will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) National Ministry of Defence 2014 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 29.875.103.670.64 Budget Expenses 21.267.128.453.20 Canceled Fund 8,427,858,728,62 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 8.585.717.123.18 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The National Ministry of Defence was adopted in 2014 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Defense Industry Undersecretary shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2016: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 40.28) SURVIVATION INVESTIGATION 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary Central Management Budget 02 Defense Services 57,377,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 57,377,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 106,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Funds and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 57,221.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 57.377,000 The Defence Industry Undersecretary has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2016. Defense Industry Undersecretary, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2014 be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Defense Industry Undersecretary for Central Management Final Account for 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 52,453,600,00 Budget Expenses 49,473,837,98 Canceled Fund 2,979,762.02 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 46,566,000.00 Collection 50.096.362.54 Ret and Returns 232.68 Net Collection 50.096.129.86 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Defense Industry Undersecretary was adopted in 2014 as part of its final account of central management. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology votes for the division of the central management budget of 2016: Those who don't... Sustained. 26) INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget 2016 01 General Public Service 3.598.160,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 2.572,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 700,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 773,788,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 55,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 4.375.275,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology was adopted as part of the central management budget of 2016. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management in 2014 be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total grant 3,015,065,188,62 Budget Expenses 2,687.228.317.88 Compensation Expenses 1,184,95 Canceled Grant 327,838,055,69 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 173,925,872,16 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2014. The President of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration of 2016, I submit to your votes for the division of the central management budget: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.30) THE PRESIDENT OF LITTLE AND DEAD EMPLOYMENTS TO PRODUCTION AND CONTROL 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2016 01 General Public Service 25.997,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.992,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 1,207,909,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 1,236.898,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2.655,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 1,160,839.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 43,404,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Collected by 25,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,231.898,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration was adopted as part of the central management budget of 2016. The President of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration of 2014, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2014 be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 577,854.201,55 Budget Expenses 502.996.040.28 Canceled Grant 73,215,811,25 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 1.642.350.02 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 523,641000,00 Collection 567.550.042,84 Ret and returns 14.309.63 Net Collection 567,535,733,21 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Institute of Standards shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management budget of 2016: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.22) Turkish STANTARTS INSTITUTION 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 38,613.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.106,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 265,015,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 305.734,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 287,720.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 31,002,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 318.722,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Institute of Standards adopted parts of the central management budget in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Institute of Standards shall be transferred to the chapters of its central account in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 475,500,000.00 Budget Expenses 336,324,392.39 Canceled Fund 139,175,607,61 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 237.900,000.00 Collection 251.182.319.99 Ret and Returns 8.633,11 Net Collection 251,173,686,88 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Institute of Standards was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Patent Institute take part in the central management budget of 2016: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.24) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget 2016 01 General Public Service 19.131,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 4,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,170,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 41,852,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 62.157,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 123,964,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 27.024,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 150.988,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Patent Institute adopted parts of the central management budget in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Patent Institute will take part in its central account in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 61,594,300,00 Budget Expenses 55,425,093,67 Canceled Fund 6,169,206,33 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 104,000,000.00 Collection 136.161.093.89 Rejections 328,429,94 Net Collection 135.832.663.95 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Patent Institute was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Foundation will be transferred to the central management budget of 2016: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.08) THE UNIVERSE OF TURKEY CLEARS AND TEKNOLOGIC RESEARCH 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 2,549,260,300 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 842,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 748,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 102,365,700 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 2,653,216,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Attempted and Property Influences 187,321,600 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 2,393,216,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 72,678,400 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 2,653,216,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2016. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Foundation will be transferred to the chapters of its central account in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2014 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 2,838.180.743.69 Budget Expenses 2.439.738.029.39 Savings Expenses 0.19 Cancelled Grant 398.442.714.49 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 33,213,442.89 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimated 1.890.467,000.00 Collection 2,205.897.016.99 Ret and Returns 1,022.192.02 Net Collection 2,204.874.824,97 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Academy of Sciences shall take part in the central management budget of 2016: those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 40.09) THE ACTION OF TURKEY 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 14.444,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 474,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 14.918,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 21,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 14.847,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 50,000 TOPLAM 14.918,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Academy of Sciences was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2016. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Academy of Sciences shall take part in the central account of 2014: those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 14.182.700.00 Budget Expenses 10,500,118,21 Canceled Fund 3.682.581.79 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 12.563,000.00 Net Collection 8.630.990.56 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Academy of Sciences was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2016: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 30) GEDA, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 143,500,600 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.600,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 16,808,667,400 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Environmental Protection Services 3.720.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 160,025,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 40,080.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 14.641,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 17.175.234,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism adopted parts of the central management budget of 2016 The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, in 2014, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 13.878.882.929.00 Budget Expenses 13.557.669.434.38 Compensation Expenses 1,185,569,16 Cancelled Grant 322,399,063,78 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2014. I would like to submit to your votes that the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency will take part in the central management budget of 2016: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.09) STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2016 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 46,765,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 78.235,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 125,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 121,480.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3,220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 125,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2016. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2014 will be transferred to the chapters of the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2014 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 93,600,000.00 Budget Expenses 88.528.754.07 Canceled Fund 5,071,245,93 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 73,600,000.00 Collection 89,234,061,67 Ret and Returns 705,307,60 Net Collection 88,528,754,07 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2014. Members of parliament, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the seventh round have been approved. I wish them well. Congressmans, the seventh round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Saturday (March 5th 2016) to discuss the budget and final accounts of the organisations. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
