tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, in accordance with the joint decision, after the off-the-top talks, I'm going to give one minute to the first 15 MPs to enter the system. Now, we're in the off-the-tops-promise section. The first non-responsive statement is from Antalya MP Mehmet Günal, who wants to talk about the problems of Tourism Week and the tourism sector. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and the great Turkish nation. Dear friends, I have made a pledge for the opening of the tourist season and Tourism Week. I wish you the best, but unfortunately, our tourism industry is not in a position to improve. On this occasion, I wanted to bring this up again. Of course, in the past few months, the crisis, which has been triggered by the Russian crisis in the weeks, has been discussed, affecting the tourism sector and our electoral region at the most. We've discussed some of it here, along with the Agricultural Council Committee, which we've established in Antalya and the Minister, and we've held meetings with the concerned ministers here in Antalya. But unfortunately, our feedback shows that the necessary decisions are not being made quickly enough. In fact, a number of temporary measures have been taken, but with them, a serious restructuring, an organisational and a strategic plan, and the matter of re-organisation seems to be disappearing between the rapid agenda. These measures are important; they're about the plane, they're about support, they're about employment, but they're all temporary and short-term. These need to be more permanent and to be completed by reviewing a tourism strategy and action plan, which ended in 2013, which could not be launched or implemented in 2007, but included the 2023 strategy. And in this case, with good intentions -- Mr. Secretary said so here, but -- we see that the decision cannot be made quickly. Of course, here, not only does the Ministry and the bureaucracy need to participate, but also the private sector representatives of the denominator. But the most important thing that this co-ordination hasn't been achieved in years is that, unfortunately, the government has come up with a plan of action and its intentions, but it can't be put into action. So we've delayed structural measures here, as in everything else. There's an unplanned situation. Let's turn this crisis into an opportunity for these to go away. We said, "Let's create an opportunity for us to take the structural measures necessary in tourism and to take permanent measures." We're already warning you about this because expectations are bad, bad news from tourism. Many for sale ads have begun to grow. We're getting requests from various units, tourism investors, Guide Room. Therefore, dear friends, the problems of this sector need to be resolved. Because we need to revitalize the main contributing tourism sector before the foreign trade deficit is partially relieved of imports, the decline in energy prices. Because it's not just about the tourism industry, it's about agriculture, it's about other sectors, and it's about tourism that employs a lot of jobs in other sectors. In addition to these promises, structural measures must be taken. The organization structure comes first, dear friends. Because the most important reason for the current lack of co-ordination is the failure to co-ordinate with all tourism organisations, occupational organisations. The planned tourist council, occupational councils, unfortunately, has not yet been formed. Each unit is looking at the issue from its point of view, and after a while, the problem becomes permanent and unresolved. An immediate review of this strategic plan and the concrete implementation of the action plan, a framework law on this matter must be removed immediately. In this, there are suggestions for organization structure, then employment, the industry has proposals -- they've also told the Minister, because I'm short on time -- about employees. For example, we said five or six months, but a short-term employment incentive is being brought in, which is not enough. Plus, there's what the Tourist Guides Room says, there's problems they're bringing us. They want to benefit from taxes, stoppages, VAT-like exemptions, exceptions. He has problems with working conditions, about non-compliance of contracts, lack of supervision, undocumented work. In short, the promotional attack that's being launched in the tourism industry may seem like something, but in a more radical way, it needs a strategic promotional attack. To that end, the Parliament and the government have decided to prioritize and immediately fulfill these promises, establishing a radical tourist framework law. We, Antalya MPs, and here representing the National Movement Party, say that we will contribute to the solution of these problems as soon as possible. He says instead of saving the day, let's take permanent precautions, and I'll pay my respects. Again, I wish you the best of Tourism Week.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you, Mr. Günal. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Mersin MP Hüseyin Çanaak (a member of parliament) who wants to speak about village institutions. Here you go, Mr. Pineak.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0004par0023	Mr. President and the esteemed MPs, I salute the General Assembly. The 76th anniversary of the village institutes, the symbol of Turkey's most successful periods of education, is being celebrated in a grim way these days. The village institutes founded on 17 April 1940, led by Minister of National Education Hasan Ali Yücel, were an enlightenment dynamo that closed the young republic's read and write deficit. The village institutes presented a model in which the villagers, then 80 per cent of the population, would soon achieve excellent results with their own resources. So that the lower schools were established in Turkey by U.S. famous educational theorist John Dewey. From his Word, we can understand that village institutes are an example for the world at that time. Because of these features, UNESCO proposed village institutions as an example to developing countries at the time. The existence of St. Sancar, who said he had won his country the Nobel Prize because of the foundation he received from idealistic teachers who graduated from the village institute, shows how important it is for the functionality of these institutions. [[Applause from CHP rows]] For centuries, the village children who had been left to their own destiny were able to reach the most advanced point in their education through the village institutes. The village institutes in a multi-purpose and multi-purpose system did not eliminate the student because he did not see it as a racehorse, but also had a teacher's equipment, which allowed him to achieve all kinds of equipment by making him qualified to help the village, such as a medic, a cooperative, a farmer. However, towards the end of World War II, one of the preconditions for Turkey's assistance to Truman Doctrine was the removal of these village institutions. And the landowners around here were not happy with these institutions because the peasant was no longer attached to him. They had a significant impact on the school that formed another party after the ruling party. In fact, this understanding, which has always seen positive science as a threat because of the transformation of the people of Anatolia from the community to the citizens of the community, was supported by the outside forces, making the village institutions first dysfunctional in 1946 and shut them down completely in 1954. Closing these schools can't be considered a training change. This decision laid the foundation for the enlightenment of the people of Anatolia years before the creation of a suitable field for the green belt project. With the closure of the village institutes, the republical revolutions, which aim to achieve the level of complex civilization, have been interrupted. Eventually, knowing that ignorance was the end of the dogmatic and obedient understanding of enlightenment that day, it allowed the village institutions to be closed as a threat to existence. (HPP) Today is the most extreme result of their training, living with dogmas, not questioning, obeying, almost completely out of positive science. Based on the data from the International Student Evaluation Programme, the PlSA (PISA) exams in recent years, OECD is unfortunately among the lowest countries in the training rankings. Instead of finding a solution, however, there are preparations to go further back each day. The idea that is going away from science in order to create a community of people only helps to become a chaotic part of Middle Eastern hell. As I stop speaking, I look at the results of his absence today, and I remember the village institutes and the contributors with respect and gratitude that were well appreciated. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0005par0032	Thank you, Mr. Pineak. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Cırklareli MP Selahattin Minsozmaz. Here you go, Mr. Minsolmaz.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0006par0037	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book agreement on the 40larian province. I salute your high council. As I begin with my words, I congratulate you on the Happy Birth Week of the entire Islamic world and our nation. As one of the three provinces of Edirne, Tekirdağ, Teklareli, Turkey, in northwestern Turkey, and one of the provinces of Turkey is one of our provinces in the region of Thrace, Edirne, Tekirdağ, as well as one of the provinces of Edirne, Tekirdağ, Tekirdağ. Babaeski, Demirköy, Kofçaz, Lüleburgaz, Pehlivanköy, Pınarhisar, Vize and the central district are one of eight counties, including 21 districts and 179 villages, agriculture, animalism, forestry, mining, tourism, and industry, all together at a very high rate. As of this location, Cırklareli, which is in the transition zone between Anatolia and Europe, also has historical, natural, archaeological and Ottoman cultural heritage, and continues by increasing tourism potential as of today's Tourism Week. As it is known, there is a centre in the foundry used during the conquest of İstanbul province where the cannons and the documents related to this place are being processed. In the Lower Pınar region, south of the province's centre, there were significant findings starting in about 1993 and marking 8,200 years of history from the beginning to today, and with archaeological excavations carried out by Professor Mehmet Ozdoğan, it also made a significant distance to uncover an important historical fact. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, our forty-year-old province is also one of the most important centers of our country in education. At the level of education, the university is rapidly improving by its door to the world, along with our University of 40lari, established in May 2007. On April 8th -- last week -- with the approval of our head of law, our Council of Ministers and our National Education, our Prime Minister and President, our largest district in the country, Lüleburgaz. I give my regards and my love to all the partners who have worked in this matter. As for our Court of Justice, construction will begin in a very short period of time -- this year -- and this investment in health and agriculture in the region will be carried out, as well as in justice. The construction of the 300-bed Lüleburgaz State Hospital will begin in the coming days, along with our 250-bed hospital of 40lari, which has been completed in the field of health and will soon be served with its suspension. With the hospital completed in our Babaeski, investments in health facilities in our districts of Pınarhisar and Demirköy continue rapidly. About 40 per cent of the 6,500 square kilometres of the area is part of our country's economy, a significant resource from agricultural activities in our region, consisting of agriculture, 40 per cent forest, 5 per cent mera, and 15 per cent of other agricultural areas. We recently announced that the IPARD, which was the agricultural foot of the Pre-accession Financial Aid Tool (IPA), was taken along with 39 counties of our 40lari province. Between 50 per cent and 70 per cent of rural development in the cities covered by this IPARD, the agricultural presence in our region will also increase rapidly. About 48,000 hectares of waterworks in our region are also planned to increase agricultural watering by 18 per cent in this region by twice as much. Mr. President, the precious lawmakers are increasing its agricultural presence and animalism rapidly because of the Centipede province, also because of the Bosphoruses, and will be the shining star of the region, along with its transport capacities and the fast train. Along with our Dereköy Border Gate, the region is rapidly on its way to becoming a region where trade traffic will increase. As I complete my words, I will now celebrate the 96th year of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, which is coming up on April 23rd, and salute my fellow citizens of 40lareli and your great delegation.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0007par0048	Thank you, Mr. Minsolmaz. Congressmans, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the lawmakers who are now entering the system from their location. I'll start in order. Mr. Bozkurt...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0008par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. According to NASA data, Turkey's region is experiencing the largest drought of nine hundred years. In this context, producers in Eregli district of science are also in serious trouble, with a great drought. The question we've been asking about the Eregli Irriz closed irrigation system that's been going on for years, we haven't been able to get an answer from Mr. Secretary, but we do know that the Minister doesn't know. There is no danger of drought. He said, "Our hearts are relieved." Of course, the threat of drought may be avoided, but I truly regret the postponement of a reception in the House on the day of the foundation of this House, which was established for the martyrs, ignoring its own establishment of national sovereignty, and honoring the grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0009par0057	Thank you. Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0010par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. As Istanbul MP, I'd like to address the transportation problem in our neighborhoods in Beyoğlu district. Okmeydanı, Şark Coffee, Exampletepe, Earless and many other neighborhoods do not receive public transportation after four o'clock. Meeting the public transport needs of Istanbul's Metropolitan Municipality is one of the most important tasks, but unfortunately our citizens in these neighborhoods are unable to benefit from this service because of the arbitrary and political stance of the IETT administration, and after four o'clock there are no bus routes to the region. We have citizens who have to walk miles from work to go home to their parents or to the hospital. There's no right reason to set such a clock limit. I'm speaking to all officials, including the Home Secretary and the Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor: We demand that this injustice and persecution be put to rest immediately.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0011par0063	Thank you. Mr. Result...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0012par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the major problems of our people in Hatay, where I'm a MP is that our people who live in our villages have been living on land for a long time that they can't buy land that belongs to the National Property Authority. Some time ago, the five-year-old rent price was also collected under the name of the estate. We feel that our villages have no historical application of zoning and that our people have had the right to land on their village's treasured land for centuries, where our villagers have had their homes on it. In these areas, known as treasure land, it would be right to bring a time criteria to determine a value for the land that has been on it for a very long time and to transfer the deeds of these fields through sales to the manufacturers who live on it. We'd like the Finance Ministry to conduct the necessary procedures as soon as possible for other relevant ministries. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0013par0069	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0014par0072	Mr. President, recently in Çanakkale, the vice president of the AKP Youth Corps has stated that he visited state schools in the Ministry of Education, where he held consultation meetings with students -- in his own words -- in the school canteens. It has been established that the person shares his political activities in public schools in social media accounts and that the case is accurate. In what capacity does this person go to public schools, as reflected in the press -- as he is here? Ibni Sina Professional Technical Anadolu, İbrahim Mutlu Anadolu, Central Technical Anadolu, Hasan Ali Yücel Anadolu, TOKI Trade Anadolu and Imam-Hatip High Schools, all of which are public schools. Under what legislation did the administrators of these schools allow these meetings? Is there an investigation launched by the city's property managers regarding these illegal propaganda activities by the Director of National Education? Is there a director in this frame who's been suspended for a healthy investigation? Or, as in the Ensar Foundation case, nothing happens here at once. Is it said?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0013par0074	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0015par0076	My question is to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. One: the naval-Travel road has not been completed in years, even though every election has been promised to be finished by the ruling party. When will the sea-wreck road end that hasn't been finished in 14 years? Two: the naval-Kale-Mughla road has been unfinished for years, the transport is failing, and it also has a negative effect on the tourism movement. When will this road be finished? Three: When will the construction of the Denizli-Antalia circuit road under our Honaz district begin? On what date will it be finished when it begins? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0016par0081	Thank you. Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0017par0084	Mr. Minister, it is said that it will be put on sale by the President of the Privatisation Administration of His Majesty Çayır, which is the place where Sultan Mehmet Mehmet died within the borders of Gebze and Çayırova. The sale of such a field means betrayal of both history and nature. He invites the Ministry of Culture and Tourism to be sensitive to the issue, and I ask the Minister of Culture and Tourism: Is His Majesty's Meadow culturally and historically important to be sold by the Privatisation Administration, will you intervene in this process?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0016par0085	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0018par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Last weekend I had the opportunity to visit the Karacabey district and villages of Burma. The landscape I've seen poses great dangers for Turkey's future. The farmer's miserable, he can't produce, and he can't pay for what he's producing. He's suffered a great deal of damage due to his loans. They're trying to turn their debt over with a system that they call a trip system. Sugar beets production is almost zero, only tomatoes and corn production. If the government doesn't take a precaution to the farmers' problems, unfortunately, we won't have any farmers or agriculture left to the next generation, and I demand that authorities take precautions.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0016par0089	Mr. Kara...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0019par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the government and the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to cancel the April 23rd reception due to ongoing operations and our incoming martyrs. Many foreign artists will come to Turkey to perform for the opening of EXPO 2016, according to media reports today. When it comes to such a large entertainment organization, it's clear that the government's sensitivity to not celebrating April 23rd, which is not sensitive to our martyrs, is caused by a public republic and Ataturk allergy. I'd like to point out that we condemn the government and the Speaker's position.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0016par0093	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0020par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Why don't you grow a beard in these villages? Why don't you keep a beard? Why don't you pray? As a result of the study, they have been identified as members of the Sivas Irshad Association, but it is odd that several days ago, the same individuals again have been travelling through villages in the area of Sivas, Kangal, and Zara district. Well, if the authorities have identified it, why aren't they sanctioning this association? Why do they let these people keep breaking social peace? I'd like to call the authorities to the post as soon as possible. I demand that there be no problems in the cities where the sensitivity, such as Sivas, should be taken care of without any difficulty. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0021par0098	Thank you. Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0022par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to address Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Faruk Çelik, the issue of cotton imports. Unfortunately, the agricultural paradise of our country imports about 65 percent of cotton. What are your sustainable agricultural policies to increase the production of cotton and similar fatty seeds? Do you plan to lower these import rates? Another question to the Minister of the Forest: There are over 600 staff deficits on the part of the directorate of the forest and the engineer of our Ministry. Do you plan to make the necessary appointments in this environment where over 7,000 forest engineers are unemployed? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0023par0105	Thank you. Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0024par0108	As in the information of our friends, the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on April 23, 1920 is also the beginning of our Liberation War. I would like to point out that I strongly condemn that even a reception at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has given us independence, which is the most democratic structure, is far from collaborating with co-operation and imperialism, built our independence, created this day. It's at least an eye for our history. I'd also like to remind you that the trial that will begin tomorrow in Karaman, especially by AKP MPs, will at least remove the silence that has been held against this event. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0025par0111	Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0026par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. Sadly, those words by the AKP Minister and lawmakers, who said they would invest our province before the election, were nothing more than a promise. These promises include tourism areas in our province awaiting investment, many road projects, a university opening in the district of Tarsus, and the establishment of an industrial zone in the same district, an occupational zone. I'd like to ask you, on behalf of the people of Mersin and Tarsus, are you going to fulfill these promises made during the election? Is there a separate grant or any work that has been started on these promises? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0027par0116	Thank you. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0028par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. I invite AKP-based municipalities to respect their disability rights. The disabled must have access to all rights, such as individuals without obstacles, so positive discrimination must be made. But what you see in this photo is a sidewalk, a sidewalk, a handicapped road, a big totem right on the road, and the obstacle road, a positive discrimination of the totem around the totem, was rotated around the totem. It could only be done with an AKP mentality; it's really funny, tragic. Please stop this understanding and remove the obstacles to the disabled. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0029par0122	Thank you. Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0030par0125	Thank you. For nearly two weeks, there has been a disease reported by experts in the wheat fields in Edirne, which has contributed seriously to the production of wheat in Turkey. Experts say that any drug against the virus can't be effective. This is where I announce to the Ministry of Agriculture that our producers should be informed of this virus and that measures should be taken in exchange for the loss of income. I wish the Ministry of Agriculture, a ministry the farmer wouldn't have known about if it had been shut down, would have been with the manufacturer, and the farmer's victimization.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0029par0127	Mr. Peksen...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0031par0129	Mr. President, one of the most important duties of lawmakers is the audit mission. We, lawmakers, ask the Minister of the Interior a written, verbal question. Mr. Home Secretary's answers to the questions are incompatible with the state tradition, not with Parliamentary dignity, nor with the seriousness of a statesman. I object to the Minister's lack of dignity and lack of colloquialism and to offend the dignity of lawmakers in this parliament. I hope he never repeats his lack of courage.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0029par0131	Congressmans, now, if they've made any demands, I'm going to make a pledge to the members of the group. Mr. Akçay, come in. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0032par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. On 24 March 2016, a research commission was adopted in the General Assembly to investigate child abuse. The abuses against children who have come to the public's agenda have been on the same agenda since March 24th, and new abuses have been emerging in newspapers, media daily. The government and the Justice and Development Party Group and the Speaker of Parliament are taking their time. Why does the Justice and Development Party insist on the commission's work? Does this have anything to do with the trial tomorrow? The commission was set up twenty-six days ago, but there was still no meeting because it was not formed by voting in the General Assembly. We expect a statement from the authorities. Twenty-six days, I wonder if anyone's ever wanted to keep up the good work. While the issue has created so much public publicity, we see this attitude as an attitude to cool down the debates. But let it not be forgotten that this Parliament has unanimously decided to set up a commission, and our nation wants this matter investigated. The Justice and Development Party must stand by its votes in parliament and do its duty as soon as possible to meet our nation's expectations. Again, we are in the 1st anniversary of the death of Professor Oktay Sinanoglu, a world-renowned scientist and thinker who emerged from the heart of the Turkish nation. Oktay Sinanoglu has opened new horizons with scientific studies...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0033par0139	One more minute, please complete.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0032par0140	...a scientist who has brought important works to both his nation and humanity, whose place is filled with very difficult tasks. The late Sinanoglu, who was 26 years old, earned the right to become a professor and became the youngest professor to grow in Western countries in recent centuries. In love with Turkish, the people have taken a place in the heart of the Turkish nation. As such, Sinanoglu will always be remembered with respect and mercy. I would like to complete my words with one of his historic words: "The nation will not allow its country, its tongue, to be taken away from its history, or its Turkish name to be erased from history." Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0034par0143	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. However, I will submit a list of the commission to your votes on the part of the agenda, and I will give it to you as information. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0035par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. We are pleased that the commission on Karaman was set up on the agenda, or rather, on the agenda of the commission to prevent child abuse. Because the event is reflected in the public, or rather, it's reflected earlier, it's demanded that the commission be set up on 24/9, it's requested by the groups, 3 opposition parties report on 29 March, 30 and 1 April, but the Justice and Development Party has delayed the establishment of the commission until April 15th. However, similar complaints came from all over Turkey when it came to the agenda. This is now that Congress will seize our fate, and they will no longer be locked behind closed doors, and all political party groups, like the press, in hopes of being investigated by Congress. The fact that the commission has been delayed so long has nothing to do with the responsibility of power. Mr. President, April 23rd is both the national sovereignty and the children's holiday. April 23rd was given to children by the Great Leader Ataturk. It's a tradition of republican receptions about protecting, caring for martyr children, transferring revenues to their reading. However, Mr. Ismail Kahraman, the reception has been cancelled by the hand of our Parliamentary President and by his own decision, without the decision of the Presidential Court. As a political party involved in the liberation of the republic, we cannot possibly accept this. On Saturday, April 23rd, at the order of our President-General, it is now 2:00 p.m. of the House. It's 15 o'clock following your special session at 00. We will hold a group meeting with special agendas and participants from all over Turkey. After this meeting, between 4:00 and 5:30 p.m. in the garden of our group meeting hall... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0036par0152	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0035par0153	...with our children, with our artists, with our authors and with all our people, we will celebrate the republical reception with the public. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Despite Mr. Kahraman's will, we invite both you and our Parliament Speaker and 550 members of parliament to the public reception of the Republican People's Party on April 23rd. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0037par0158	Thank you. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0038par0161	Mr. President, thank you. The matter of child abuse is a matter of utmost importance. There is no political competition here, no engagements through various understandings, ideas, ideology, and there can never be a protective attitude towards any people. This is something that we all need to focus on by forgetting about the quality of being human first and all the elements of political competition. It's a dark area, where who does what, how does it work? Of course, the government, on the one hand, will follow it and do what it has to do. There will already be a review of the commission today, and hopefully, the commission will begin its work and perform an important function in the name of lighting the darkness of this area. And it is my belief that, in any way, friends in the commission, let alone political competition, such an understanding, such an attitude, such an attitude to reason, will do business entirely by focusing on our children and this dark space. I just wanted to make that clear. On the other hand, Mr. Speaker of Parliament expressed his motive for the April 23rd reception, stating there will be no reception this year. This, of course, does not mean that April 23rd, National Sovereignty and Children's Day were not celebrated, celebrated, forgotten. The EC PARTY has been in power for 14 years, and Parliament Speakers have been elected members of the EC PARTY several times.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0039par0165	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Botanci. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0038par0167	And so far, there have been many various April 23rd celebrations, receptions. I don't think it's appropriate to ignore them and make some political evaluations inspired by the absence of reception this year. Of course, the Speaker of Parliament has made critical decisions, but a political comment, a political speculation, it would not be right to take such a broader political assessment from here. Such speculation is a deep contradiction to the political reality that Turkey has been living in for the past 14 years. The Republican People's Party says it will celebrate the alternative. Good luck with the reception. Of course, they gave everyone their invitations. You're welcome to participate. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0040par0171	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. I wish you good work again, members of lawmakers. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly An investigation has been conducted on the grounds that four ministers of the 61st Turkey cabinet member and three ministers of the government, including four ministers and three ministers, who were known as December 17 and 25 December investigations or December 17th and December 25th operations, have been investigated later on December 17, 2013, as well as have been linked to a number of charges of "instruction, abuse of the mission, corruption and trafficking" and later investigations have been made due to a number of crimes involving the four ministers, including money laundering and gold trafficking. One of the suspects mentioned in the indictment was Interior Minister Muammar Guler, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar, Economy Minister Zafer Çağlar and the proceedings prepared for criminal prosecution of Minister of the European Union Egemen Dona have been submitted to the Ministry of Justice to be sent to TBMM. Five people including Peace Güler, Kaan Çağlan and Reza Sarraf have been released as part of the operation. There are no prisoners left under the corruption and bribery operation. However, within the past two years of the operation, the public conscience has not forgotten the allegations of corruption, and a serious consensus has begun. It undermines the credibility of both our parliamentary system and democratic political institutions and the judiciary. Last year, in the Corruption Perception Index, organised by the Transparency International NGO, our country was ranked the highest in the country, and Turkey was ranked ranked the 64th among 175 countries. The setback suggests that both the 17-25 December corruption operations have contributed, as well as the AKP government's failure to take anti-corruption measures or develop resistance to such initiatives. Unsubstantiated trials have led to a growing public perception of corruption for reasons such as political government interference in the process of investigations, refraining from judging those who claim to have committed corruption and making other statements. In this context, major tasks fall to the TBMM, and it is a duty to take concrete steps to break this perception. It is imperative that a public investigation into why corruption perception is increasing and a comprehensive study of what to do to end corruption. To this end, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to avoid corruption and to determine what methods should be used in order to change public perception in this scope. [[Hatay]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] [[Mughle]] [[Hatay]] [[Mersin]] [[Burdur]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Balıkesir]] 15) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Denizli]] [[Sinop]] 21) Bornt Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine and overcome antidemocratic regulations that have led to the arrests of journalists in our country; in order to determine measures taken to ensure public freedom of press, information and information, freedom of the public; in order to establish, the Constitution shall be established under Articles 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. With all due respect. 1) Kamil Okyay Set [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Artvin]] [[Manisa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Burdur]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] [[Janitor]] [[Antalya]] 16) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Edirne]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Malatya]] [[Army]] [[Ankara]] [[Samsun]] 25) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 31) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Aydın]] [[Eskişehir]] 34) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] 35) Ahmet Tuncay Özkan [[İzmir]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] Democratic countries are governed by the principle of division of forces. It is the necessity of modern democracy to come to press power after legislation, execution and judicial power. This is also directly related to the freedom of thought and expression at the head of fundamental rights and freedoms. In Article 3 of the Press Law, "The press is free. This freedom includes the rights to acquire knowledge, to spread, to criticize, to interpret and to create art." The expression is the basis for meeting society's need for information and news. Free press is at work in communities where the values of modern democracy prevail, where the state of law is established. Other than that, any restrictions, restrictions on the journalist's life are a violation of the right of the press to be tried or arrested for his work, to be informed and communicated. The situation of journalists who are imprisoned in our country today, whose numbers find them, is a concrete example of how far away they are from democratic values, law enforcement, fundamental rights and freedoms. Finally, the trial of Cumhuriyet daily Editor-in-Chief Can Dündar and journalist Erdem Gül as journalists is worrying about the situation in which media freedom and democracy have come. It is a fundamental violation of human rights and freedom of the European Convention on Human Rights that the regulations for freedom of the press are not implemented by public authorities, that journalists should be expelled from their freedoms and jobs. Today, freedom of the press, journalists, information, distribution, criticism, interpretation, duty and rights require a comprehensive investigation and evaluation of the situations they have been subjected to. At this point, the problems with freedom of speech and freedom of speech are beyond measureable by the number of passionate journalists. In particular, in recent years, the methods of intimidation and intimidation practiced by power have yielded results, making written, visual and internet media unable to function freely. The cases where the press workers are being tried have been described by political reckoning, and the apparent legal weaknesses have become unrecognizable. The problem is the obstruction of freedom of press and journalistic freedom, long imprisonment based on political intent, a major blow to freedom of thought and expression through the press and democracy. This cannot be associated with the understanding of democracy, which is at the top of the fundamental barriers to the state of law and democracy. It is extremely important for the press to use intimidation and intimidation policies, policies and practices that can be mentioned during the coup eras as a tool by political power owners who have been elected to work. The media also brings with it a drag towards the control of journalists, constraints, silence of the press. In this sense, it is mandatory to investigate in a multidimensional way to ensure that the obstacles to freedom of the press in our country, the antidemocratic regulations that have led journalists to be tried for imprisonment, and the freedom of the press to work in democratic conditions, the freedom of public knowledge and information. For the reasons mentioned above, it is of utmost importance that the matter be addressed by the Grand Assembly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In recent years, the construction of the PKK and extreme left-wing organisations, especially in the institutions of higher education and loan dorms (KYK), has reached dangerous levels, making many students and their families vulnerable. In order to determine measures to be taken by investigating the situation of PKK and other extreme left-wing terrorist organisations in universities, we respectfully submit to the need to open Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution 98th, Turkey's Grand National Assembly. [[Ankara]] 2) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 3) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 7) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Mughle]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Osmaniye]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 19) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[Ankara]] The institutes of higher education, where millions of students have been preparing for 12 years, where the positions for the future of the country have been raised, unfortunately, for a long time, the PKK and other illegal left organisations have been seen. College students begin college studies for many years, both financially and spiritually. In the coming university youth of our country, especially in the last seven years, organisations such as the PKK and illegal left organisations have been seriously organized. As the divisional terrorist organisation's politicalisation process reaches its maximum, separatist formations in our universities continue to expand and increase in this direction. In our universities, there is not a single concrete example of any of these activities being taken by governments when there are many divisive activities, panels, and social activities. Some illegal organizations who view university youth as a "potential organization" for themselves have been able to do their work all over our country. Participants of separatist terrorist organisations, which have succeeded in building at central points of universities, are also trying to keep student dorms under control. The PKK sympathizers who are held at universities are trying to make joint decisions, making current events and forced school boycotts, as an excuse for the special days and weeks they assume about PKK. For example, Ankara University, Ege University, Marmara University, İstanbul University, Boğaziçi University, Hacettepe University can be cited as an example. In order to implement these so - called decisions, they go to classrooms in large groups, offering the teachers their so-called excuses, asking that the lessons not be held. When teachers and students who oppose their wishes are declared fascists and have the opportunity, they physically resort to violence. After all these boycotts, many university administration solutions have found that instead of punishing these students who are engaged in illegal activities, doing illegal activities, they are taking a break from teaching at schools where boycotts take place. Disciplinary investigations are not being launched against students who are responsible for all of this, but disciplinary investigations are being launched against these so-called illegal boycotts, whose only concern is to finish their faculty and be a good citizen of the nation. The use of the faculty as headquarters by PKK and illegal left organisations makes faculty unsafe for students. As an example, no sanctions have been taken by ignoring all warnings at the University of Aegean and the petitions that faculty students have submitted in writing that they are complaining about this insecurity environment. Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu, one of the university students who came to the Faculty of Literature to attend the formalization class on February 20, 2015, was subjected to attack by PKK sympathizers and died following the stab wounds. For reasons revealed above, a parliamentary examination of the PKK and other illegal left organisations in universities is necessary to determine the measures needed to be taken to address the problems of the students who have been expelled from school and are also being investigated for disciplinary investigation into the rights of the victims. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and processed and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/283) I demand that my original Law Proposition (2/283) be taken directly into the General Assembly agenda according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. 18/4/2016 İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu will speak as the bidder. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0041par0381	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the law on direct recruitment of subcontractors (2/283). I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has turned into a republic where millions of workers work as subcontractors. When the AKP came to power, the number of subcontractors, 360,000 in 2002, increased to 2 million in 2016. 1,200,000 of them work in public. The AKP issued a statement last week, at the point where CHP would lift subcontractor labor before November 1st elections, as a result of persistent pressure from the CHP, and in the end, the Prime Minister made a statement at the point where subcontractory will be removed. On 22 March, after the Prime Minister's statement, the Finance Minister issued statements that contradicted the Prime Minister and completely contradicted him. According to the Finance Minister, subcontractors... the Finance Minister's statement was at a point where there would be a separate status in the public where subcontractors would be passed, their past rights would be eliminated, municipalities would be excluded, their wages would remain the same, they would be subject to the test and they would be run with three-year contracts. However, no official statement has been made by the AKP on what the content of the law will be. First of all, if this is the way it's going to be reflected, we can clearly say that the provision will not end subcontractor work in public. First of all, it is intended to create a new status in the public, such as the proposed 4/C, which is an atypical contract type. A new status is attempted to bring in a new atypical system, instead of removing 4/B, 4/C. That would be extremely wrong. People who do the same job in public have to be paid the same. However, the payment system will continue with the proposed system, with the system proposed by the AKP. In between, tests will be made to assess performance in terms of subcontractors, which will reveal favourability. And the contracts will be three years in the recommended form. But they need to be put on full staff, and they need to be assigned indefinitely. And three years will also make it essential to working in public, yet again, a philanthropist understanding. Dear friends, we, the CHP, have always expressed that both during the 24th and before, subcontractorism is modern slavery in this world order and in the Turkish environment. We've stated that employees like officers should be assigned to the staff, and workers like workers should be put on the staff. In the 24th century, our MPs offered us a lot of laws, and we tried to get them on the agenda, but here we faced the majority obstacle of the Justice and Development Party. Now, in this proposal, we say that those who serve regularly should be put on staff in a non-discriminate manner, so we need to put an end to subcontractor work here. We should all call the bill proposed and delivered by the AKP here "Ret.", dear friends. In our election declarations, November 1st and June 7th, we discussed this very thoroughly, and when we came to power, we said that we would end it. The eyes of 1,200,000 subcontractors working in public are today in the House, and many of our friends are here. Therefore, if we really, sincerely want to end subcontractorial labor, this proposal, which we have made today, under Article 37 of the Civil Code, should be raised, and may then be discussed in the commission along with the proposal of the Justice and Development Party. So today, we can make a gesture of goodwill together, bring it up before the order comes up, send it to the relevant commission, and see that it meets with the government's bill. The last thing I'm going to say is to the Speakership. There are hundreds of subcontractors working under the roof of this House, dear friends. We must end this unjust practice in this Parliament. In the mess hall, in security services, in cleaning services, all employees are staffless and subcontractors. In the first place, we can take a step to end the subcontractor in the House of Parliament. It should also be the duty of this Parliament to make sure our own employees work truly honorably, respectfully, because we meet them every day in our room, backstage, in the mess hall, in the security services. I say we pay them this debt, this debt that this Parliament has not yet fulfilled. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0042par0389	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. On behalf of an MP, İstanbul MP Yakup Akkaya will speak. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0043par0394	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to the law on the hiring of public contractors. First of all, I salute you all with love and respect. Dear lawmakers, we have been saying for years that the subcontractor system is a system that exploits workers, that the state should not allow this exploitation system. And we offer our solution proposals to the House at every new legislature. So far, there's been no road to this, I'm afraid. Promises are made through pre-election subcontractors, and they're tried to be bonded, but the election results in the prospect of a new election with subcontractors. In the June 7th and November 1st elections, the Republican People's Party had made a similar statement after the promise of being recruited by public contractors. After the November 1st elections, first, we'll put the staff on the staff at the main job. You said, "You promised everyone a private job in public status." Our subcontractors are pleased. Really, we were glad to hear the Prime Minister's statement. Eventually, there was going to be a mistake. Adherent media praised the pillars before sunrise. However, as we read the statements of the Prime Minister and Mr. Finance Minister on this matter, we saw that subcontractors were once again deceived. There will be no subcontractors, no contract, no contract in three years, no contract in three years, and no contract in three years. Members of parliament should consider the duty of protecting workers as a priority in social state understanding, employees who are oppressed in working life, who are in an unequal position. Mr. Finance Minister's statement has given birth to a mountain rat. A new status is required to bribe subcontractors -- if necessary -- to work in public. They're going to give up everything they're going to get, including a back-to-back severance package. It's kind of a bribe. It's not moral at all. Moreover, these subcontractors have also become members of trade unions and have a collective contract, gaining new rights. Look, in the High Referee Board, in the past period, there have been over 500 collective contracts signed -- between food workers and municipalities, between municipal companies -- and they have earned new rights. With the arrangement brought in, these rights will be taken from them. The workers will be unsubstantiated, and the biggest impact here will be on the KK-IH Confederacy, because nearly 250,000 subcontractors have signed collective contracts and are organized in the HAK-İSMET-İSK Union, and they will be subjected to arbitrary practices in this sense of unsecured employment. Dear lawmakers, the subcontractor system is basically a leech from the illegitimate relationship of the state and capital class, draining the blood of the working class. Subcontractorization is a system that is considered a treatment of poverty, but it also kills and crawls the poor. Subcontractorization is a treacherous ambush that hits the working class with ununion. Dear lawmakers, it's not the staff the government offers subcontractors, it's the government's recommendation to work at a certain time. This proposal -- if necessary -- is an employment model. The prerequisite is to take away workers' earned rights, severance benefits, annual furlough rights, trade unionisation rights and the rights they have earned from the collective contract, which will eliminate the millions of dollars in compensation earned by subcontractors over the past years. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, come, let's all put this shame away. For once, let the Grand National Assembly of Turkey show that it does not discriminate against employees in this country. Let's give public institutions employees the right to work in collective contracts, guaranteed to all subcontractors, including municipal companies. Let's get rid of this shame as Turkey. I salute you once again with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0044par0403	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0045par0404	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit01spe0044par0405	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0044par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu was unable to find enough to vote on the motion to take the proposal directly into consideration according to Article 37 of the Interior Charter. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the motion... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. Congressmans, under the decision taken, we are moving on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, members of the group, Ankara MP Levent Gök, İstanbul MP Engin Altay and Manisa MP Ozgur Specile have begun talks on the opening of a geneor for Interior Minister Efkan Ala (11/7) on the charge that four terrorist attacks in Ankara and İstanbul have not taken the necessary measures. Government? Here. I do not re-read the motion because it has already been published and read in the 72nd Union of the General Assembly, dated 13 April 2016. Congressmans, I'd appreciate it if you'd be a little quiet because I can't read the agenda. Please... I'm asking you... Under Article 99 of the Constitution, lawmakers will be promised to a member of the Constitution, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a prime minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. Now, I read the names of the members who have been mentioned: İstanbul MP Ali Şal as the lawyer; Manisa MP Erkan Akçay on behalf of the People's Party Group; Ankara MP Sırrıyya Önder on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Bartın MP Muhammet Rıza Yalçınkaya on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İzmir MP Mr Hamza Ağ will speak; Interior Minister Efkan Ala on behalf of the People's Party will take their word. Now, the first word is Mr. Ali Şaltağ, MP of İstanbul, as the owner of the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sugar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0046par0018	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our General Assembly. I have made a promise to discuss Minister of Interior Efkan Ala's geneor on behalf of our party. The beginning of the chain of events that caused this gene is either 400 MPs, or 400 MPs, or the headline of chaos. Interior Minister Efkan Ala is only watching the implementation of this chaos plan. You didn't get 400 deputies for the presidency, but in your chaos plan, we've lost more than 450, and a lot more civilians lost their lives in the process. Thousands of mothers, fathers, children, brothers, sisters were in pain. Through your swamp media, anyone who wants peace has been declared a traitor. You have released Abu Hanzala and his friends who are responsible for the construction of ISIS in Turkey, but you have imprisoned academics who say, "We will not be a party to this crime." Mr. Secretary, your Ministry will be written as years of painful memory in the history of Turkey. Your ministry period will be referred to as the years when ISIS, the world's bloodiest terrorist organization, ransacked in Turkey, settled in Turkey, and I condemn the terrorist incidents that you cast as if you weren't responsible for them. On the basis of the inspector's reports on the Ankara massacres, you're putting an investigation into Cumhuriyet and Universal newspapers because they're bringing the truth to the public. So, what are these facts you want to hide? For once, I'll tell you about it from the council bench. Twenty-five days before the October 10th Ankara massacre, on September 14, 2015, an intelligence information is coming to 81 district police departments. In this intelligence, the ISID will perform a complex action worldwide in Turkey, in the form of a plane, a hijacking, or a bomb explosion in a crowded area. That's why Deyr-ez is subjecting militants to special training in Zor. It's called in this report. ISIS is a selefi terrorist organization that has seen the Middle East for years and especially Syria as a pool of blood, not thinking like it, but as Turkish, Turkmen, Arab, Kurd, Ezidi, Christian people. Moreover, according to new intelligence, ISIS, which is stuck in Syria, appears to be heading towards Turkey and continuing its internal conflicts within Turkey. Recently, ISIS killed 2 journalists in Gaziantep. Just yesterday, a rocket missile shell launched from the ISIS-controlled Bap region to the kilis had killed four children and five others. At this time today, a house is on fire with a falling bullet, and the mayor explains: "Thank God there are no casualties today." Mr. Secretary, did these bullets fall into the Church or were they fired?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0047par0025	He's not listening.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0046par0026	So, according to these heads-cutting ISIS militants, the biggest terrorist attack in the history of the Republic on October 10, 2015, was carried out in the heart of Turkey. It's stable with the wiretaps the government's been tracking the plotners since 2013. We've shared these wiretaps with the public before. In these wiretaps, the killers said goodbye to their families, and they were lawful; they were armed with live bomb vests, and they departed from Antwerp; they entered Ankara at 8.30 a.m. For some reason, the usual road control practices that were conducted every night were suspended between 24 p.m. and 9 p.m. that night. At 10:04 a.m., live bombs exploded itself in the midst of thousands of peacemakers, Jonah Emre Alagöz and Abu Usema, Syrian nationals. Unfortunately, 102 of our citizens were killed in this terrorist attack. Even the names of live bombs were evident in the written note taken by the Office of Anti-Terrorism President from the Office of Intelligence at 9:38 a.m. before the explosion. You've avoided this by saying, "Kokteliyl. " However, the names of these live bombs were in your possession before the explosion. In the 25 days prior to October 10th, there were seven possible action intelligence information. Why didn't you do what you needed to do with this intel? Why didn't you inform the Committee of this intelligence? This information is in the inspector's reports issued to be allowed to investigate the Ankara Police Director and other security officers who were on duty that day on charges of abuse of office. After placing all neglects, it is the duty of the chief of police to ensure the safety of the demonstration march. The question is the public benefit of investigating whether there was any negligence in the planning and taking of police measures. He concludes this report by saying: "There is a benefit to be investigated by the judicial authorities." So, what's the result? The investigation was not authorized, and the prosecutor did not object, even though it was his duty. Just as a deputy of yours has confessed on television, the legislation is yours, the judgment is yours, and the people are yours. What's really interesting is that the intel on ISIS isn't really new information. Just after the massacre of Suruç on July 20, 2015, our fellow MPs and I went to Suruç. The next day, we went to Adıyaman to attend the funeral of the martyr Müsellim Ünal. There, while investigating the Diyarbakır bomber Orhan Dündar, we found out that Sheikh Abdurrahman Alagöz, who had committed the Suruç massacre the day before, was in the same ISIS cell with Orhan Dündar, and with these reports, we presented all of this to the public and to your knowledge. You didn't pay attention to any of this, you didn't pay attention, you didn't care.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0048par0031	Now he can't hear.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0046par0032	And now you don't.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0048par0033	He's not listening.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0046par0034	You haven't seen our reports of the Suruç massacre and the ISIS threat we've prepared as the CHP delegation, but our people have been victimised by it. That information was in that report, my friends. In this report, we've warned that the power of the entity is a great danger. There have been a great number of live bombs in Turkey. These militants will turn Turkey into a pool of blood. You didn't listen, and you're not listening right now. At a press conference held in Parliament on 16 October, we released a section of the testimony reports of ISIS members known as the group of readers; we explained that you listened to them, followed them, supported them, and ignored them again. We gave you questions, you didn't answer any of them. What are you hiding from our High Council? Let's investigate the terrorist. We've given you a motion to investigate, you've refused. If you had supported our motion to investigate, there would have been no post-suruç massacres. Mr. Minister, there was an incident in Küçükçekmece Dovetepe in Istanbul that resulted in the death of a 17-year-old brother Serap Eser in the fire. You've used and abused this incident you've been involved in in in the polls. Years later, Interior Minister Idris Naim Şahin was a member of the MIT who launched the Molotov. Hrant Dink was murdered by intelligence control. According to the inspector's reports prior to a live bomb attack in Sultanahmet Square in İstanbul on January 12, 2016, this action was not prevented, while 12 people were killed. On February 17, 2016, a special vehicle loaded with explosives crashed into a military service bus in Merasim Street in Ankara, killing 29 of our citizens. On March 13, 2016, an attack was launched on the area of the bus and stop area in Kızılay Güvenpark, Ankara, where we lost 37 citizens. Prior to the Merasim Street and Güvenpark attacks carried out by a terrorist group called TAK, the US and German consulates in Ankara warned their citizens of possible attacks, informing them. Why did you withhold this intelligence information from our citizens? On March 19, 2016, the telephones of Mehmet Ozturk, the live bomb that carried out the massacre of Istiklal Street, which killed four people, appeared to have been bugged. At a press conference in parliament, I announced that Anonymous had identified 336 ISIS supporters. Mehmet Ozturk was one of the ones who made the explosion. I said I could give the other information to the police, you didn't ask for it, you didn't ask for it, there's information from 336 ISIS supporters here. Years later, another interior minister did these events by members of the MIT. What do you think about that? For years we've solved the Kurdish problem for your political power. Now you also use ISIS. Mr. Minister, live bombings have taken place since 2013 in Reyhanlı, Diyarbakır, Suruç, Ankara Station and Ankara State District Merasim Street, Ankara Kızılay Güvenpark, İstanbul Sultanahmet, and for now, on İstiklal Street. The negligence of each and every one of these events was the incident that required the political responsibility, you, to resign. We know that the culture of resignation can only flourish if there are political honors and virtue executives. We saw you wouldn't quit. With the generator we've prepared, we invite our coven to remain silent and not be a party to these crimes. You can't stop the truth from coming out, you can't tie people's eyes to the pool media. Those souls were in your care, just as you were entrusted with the safety of the lives of 80 million people now living in this country. You didn't claim the lives you were entrusted with. It seems you've let the killers go, let alone not claim them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You supported me by not doing your duty. We'll take care of those people who are left behind. Sooner or later, you'll have to answer in front of the state of law. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0049par0050	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0050par0055	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the People's Party of Republican People's Party on behalf of the People's Party's National Movement Party on the basis of its gene question about Mr. Efkan Ala. I salute your honorable committee. Today Turkey faces the worst terrorist attacks in its history, facing the worst foreign policy problems in its history. Turkey has entered the most dangerous process of social corruption and dissolution in its history. The terrible polarization fueled by the 14-year process created deep rifts in the political spectrum. The parliamentary system and the basic attributes of the republic will be removed from custody. The executions of civilian custody were sacrificed among the screams. The principle of separation of forces that guarantee the basic principles of democracy has been ignored, and the men have been abandoned to one person's political sultan. The shallow ideological view, which maintains balances slightly, is fed by a sense of violence, hatred, hatred, and a sense of thinking, which takes away its source from Selefi/Sari, has begun to haunt the private lives of our citizens. Turkish people have been condemned to breathe in an atmosphere of madness, where the concepts such as belief, belonging, and values have been reversed, where politics has been completely integrated into interests and ambitions, where national love, sovereignty, homeland, unity, and unity have been emptied. On the one hand, terrorist acts were blessed and beautified, while the people were patted on the back, and the people were promised to end terror. On the one hand, the mothers will no longer cry. With their literature, millions of people's emotions were badly exploited, while on the other hand, they were sent to İmral, Kandil, and to Kandil. In the end, a Frankenstein was created by the Republic of Turkey, who was about to be eliminated by the terror threat, by turning the fight against terrorism into a negotiation. Not only mothers but orphaned cubs shed tears, the entire Turkish nation weeps. Do not think that Turkey is the architect of this busy process that has influenced Turkey in every way, that only Turkey is its external enemies; the architect of this process is the AKP's ruling and solution partners who have been in charge for 14 years. It all started with an opening wind, and this wind turned our national existence into a storm that rocked our government. After the AKP power opening wind, the terrorist organisation rolled up its sleeves to create more concrete solutions in favour of the PKK, thus starting the solution process. A number of busy governors have been burdened with the burden of power on the way to the solution process. In order to ensure the full participation of the governors in this surrender process and full commitment to power, there have been various bags of legislation in parliament. Law changes expanding the governors' powers have been co-ordinated with civilian custody, while the experienced and successful personnel of the anti-terrorism phenomenon have been neutralized. One by one, obstacles to the negotiation process have been lifted by the AKP's ruling, which has given up the fight against terrorism, choosing negotiations and surrender. At that time, cases such as opposition civilians, journalists, writers, Ergenekon, Sledgehammer were thrown into prison in the mountains and near all commanders who were fighting the PKK on the plain. Special jurisdictional courts have been set up to eliminate experienced staffs specializing in the fight against terrorism, which have worked as quickly as possible, and have arrested anyone in the prison. For the first time in the history of Turkey, a mobile tent court has been set up for terrorists. The calendars showed October 20, 2009, and were greeted as soldiers returning from the campaign under the cheer of the uniformed terrorists in the PKK caravan entering from Habur. It's probably a round of applause from the media. The murderers of hundreds of martyrs we've given these days are these terrorist hordes that have turned our cities and towns into places of fire. They have earned the courage to kill more lives in their own lives by seeing the shame of those who ruled the state in the Habur scandal that day. Thus, by 2002, a suitable environment was formed to resurrect the PKK, which had lost public support and reached its end. In our eastern and southeast provinces, the governors, who have always shown the determination of the state in the face of separatist rebellion, who have not compromised the integrity of the country, have withdrawn from the kingdom with dignity. Instead, they were replaced by non-profit governors who tolerated the militants of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and introduced it as a democratic opening. Compromised with concepts such as compromise, cowardice, and weakness, angst, and peace. Minister of Interior Efkan Ala, who was interviewed today, was once governor of Diyarbakır, and has been sharpened as an opening apostle. After the AKP came to power, Mr. Ala, who was appointed to Diyarbakır in September 2004, began to demonstrate that he was the governor of power, not the state, with his stance and statements on the actions of the separatist terrorist organization PKK. Mr. Secretary has drawn attention to his expansive attitude when he was still governor of Batman. When he was serving in Diyarbakır, the separatist terrorist organization passed the security forces by saying, "Don't let the glass come down, don't let it get to him." If the State of Emergency had been a solution, we would not be having these problems today. It's obvious that anyone who can't protect the glass can't protect the life. It's not just the life, it's the glass, it's the goods. The stuff is the chip of life. It is also necessary to protect the property of citizens and state. The state is obliged to protect the life and property of the citizen. If the state had shown its determination and deterrent from the beginning, if the fight against terrorism had continued with its military, economic, political, social and psychological dimensions, we would not have been dealing with today's dire problems. Here, Mr. Minister, thanks to his tolerance for PKK militants in Diyarbakır, Mr. Erdogan has risen to the position of Undersecretary of Prime Minister. The PKK's actions on terrorism and its commitments have laid the groundwork for climbing the Iqbal ladder, leading to its rise to the Ministry of Interior. He was appointed to the Ministry of Interior by the Prime Minister, who resigned from his post in the corruption operation launched on 17 December 2013. Mr. Efkan Ala is such a trusted name that he was made Minister at a time when he was not even a member of parliament and had not yet stepped foot in politics. Thus, after Guler, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan won a more loyal, more committed Interior Minister. Furthermore, Erdogan is a name that fits perfectly into the expansive and negotiating policies of Erdogan, and he has worked so closely with the President that he admires his unconstitutional attitude and adapts to it. Although he is the Minister of the Republic of Turkey, I do not know this Constitution. Mr. Ala, Erdogan's confidant is one of the most reliable names in the government, but he is also a shining example of the government's failure. During his Ministry period, the PKK had the opportunity to regroup, dig moats, tunnels, all-out initiatives, new militants have won, and is also one of the actors who led Minister Dolmabahçe's understanding. After June 7, 2015, the separatist acts of terror began to spread to cities, and during the Minister's Ministry of Minister ISIS was also on a militant hunt in Turkey, gaining members, gathering sympathizers. Most of our border crossing the AKP's rule has often begun to carry out bloody acts like ISIS militants entering the refugee raid, making them look like Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). One such as Istanbul and Ankara has become the domain of terror organizations, two major cities in the heart of the economy and one in our country. In a place where security should be at its highest level, in one of Ankara's most busy areas, 29 of our citizens were killed on the evening of February 17th, and 61 of our citizens were injured. Again, 36 people were killed and 125 were injured in the explosion in Kızılay district of Ankara on March 13, 2016. So, what did our Mr. Home Secretary do? Instead of taking action, he tried to stir up talk with the tweets. After the attack on Ankara's capital's brain that resulted in the death of 28 people, please remember that I strongly condemn the terrorist attack in Ankara tonight. This is an attack against our country. Not only that, but he's been busy explaining why he won't resign through the media, confessing, exonerating himself. The AKP government, which made him minister, has already passed on to our political history as the government of exonerating and exonerating all of them, no matter what corruption and irregularities have already been done. Mr. President, the PKK, which slowly recovers in the shadow of power after 2006, has increased its actions. The separatist organization's actions have risen to the top by 2009. After that, the AKP's government lost its solution to the separatist terrorist organization, searching for Oslo's negotiations, the Imralı processes. However, the deaths stemming from terrorist incidents have reached the end of 2002. Since this date, there has been a continuous increase in terrorist incidents and martyrs until 2013, when shelling concepts such as the process of dissolution and the road map have been widely pronounced. When the number of dead civilians and security officers who were killed in 2002 was 14 in all, the number increased to 103 in 2004, 149 in 2006, and 222 in 2008. In 274 days passed from July 20th, we lost 179, 267, 10 of our guards, 19 of our civil servants, and 475 sons of our country. At the same time, from July 20th to today, nearly 250 civilians have died due to terrorist attacks, and the total number of wounded has exceeded 1,500. These numbers are the bitter balance sheet of the negotiation, not the fight against terrorism. The government of the Justice and Development Party is responsible for this painting, and the governors and interior ministers, such as Efkan Ala. Congressmans, today our borders have turned into a passing inn, so to speak. What do police intelligence and MIT do? Turkey can't avoid infiltration without setting up a good intelligence network. If a militant in action can't be traced from the moment he enters the border, who he's contacted, who he's supplying with with the help of, who he's using, who he's buying the bomb from, and the gun from, it can't be stopped. Terrorist organisations are used as subcontractors. Of course, foreign intelligence is behind this. They have to be hunted, they have to be neutralized. If there are diplomats from some countries behind them, they must be identified and made known to be declared "persona non grata" and deported. It must never be avoided. Turkey's vital interests are at stake. Some time ago, U.S. historian Webster Tarpley said the PKK had been used by the CIA, that intelligence agents had been in the eastern and southern regions of Turkey. Not only these agents, but other countries' intelligence personnel also roam Turkey. There have been allegations in the press that foreign intelligence agents suspected of having been involved in a vicious attack in Ankara have been carrying out an unfettered operation in Turkey in recent years. There are still reports that three Chechen resistancemen in our country were killed with the same weapon. This is a sign of serious security and intelligence weakness. In addition, the issue of refugees must be thoroughly reviewed, and terrorists from Syria must be determined to remain in certain places as possible, and they can be infiltrated. Unfortunately, the ruling speakers, who talk little and do much work, talk very little, and promise things that they will not be able to do. However, there must be the right proportion between your goals and what you can do and your capacity. Mr. Erdoğan said that when he was Prime Minister, he would go to Damascus in 2012, and hope that he would read Fatiha at the tomb of Saladdin Ayyubi, and that we would pray at Emevi Mosque. Erdogan and his former Foreign Minister Davutoglu have brought the country to a standstill. The opposite of what you're saying is happening. Those who flee from Damascus, and from Aleppo, pray in Sultanahmet, and in Haci Bayram. Let them not test our patience, nor test our strength. The words, such as these, are now an object of ridicule. Turkey's patience has been tested and tested in every way. Turkey is surrounded by a terror spiral. Our borders have been turned. Turkey is trying to find a dead end and Turkey is alone. Turkey has almost no friends left from its borders outside Georgia. The enemy of my enemy is my friend. The principle of Syria is better understood by the statement of the UN's permanent representative, Bezar Jaferi. Bekar Jaferi said that the PKK's Syrian arm, the PYD, and its armed element, support the YPG, both the United States and Russia, as well as themselves. The PYD is used by everyone, and the PYD is trying to open up its domain in Syria by managing everyone like Seven Husbands Hürmuz. Instead of Turkey's security and friendship, the United States has clearly expressed its intention and purity by choosing the PYD. The interesting thing is that Russia also supports the PYD. Dear MPs, the National Movement Party is a full supporter and prayer of both the Republic of Turkey and our security forces in the fight against terrorism. To fight terrorism, the mind must first change. You can't fight terrorism with a Home Secretary with an open mind. Therefore, Minister of Interior Efkan Ala must be replaced by a new Interior Minister who has national values and sensitivities to fight terrorism. Interior Minister Efkan Ala said on February 14, 2016 in the Parliamentary Plan and Budget Commission that 2.040 pits and barricades were closed in 7 districts, 2,313 bomb devices were destroyed. You have to ask the Home Secretary: Were you not in power when the PKK was loading bombs in cities, building thousands of holes, building barricades, hoarding weapons and ammunition into cities, and you were not in charge? Weren't you the one who instructed the governors to ignore them when the PKK was laying mines on asphalts, hoarding ammunition in cities, cutting roads, checking IDs, setting up courts, collecting tributes under the name tax? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you with these thoughts.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0051par0079	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ankara MP Sırrıyya Önder will speak. Here you are, Mr. Commander. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0052par0083	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to start by saying that this is in vain because the Home Secretary has left the Ministry of Interior. We're talking about a multilateral ministry. We have a ministry that has handed over 80 percent of their authority to the General Staff. Now, if you're going to give the gene, give it to the Chief of Staff; it's not available to him, either, but it's the sad truth. When politics or governance are delivered into the hands of soldiers... the military's training is two ways: death or death. Now, when you hand over a matter of sociocultural, economic, historical, and historical, and historical, to an understanding that takes this kind of training, that sees it as friendly or hostile forces, that's how it comes down to death -- all of them, the son of this country, all of our young seedlings -- in this House, it's a place of condolence. There's never a day before the normal agenda where the group's vice presidents didn't start without giving a speech of condolence to the lives of our lives that died that day. Is there a government in the ministry? The government is a liability. Besides, I said maybe 80% of the Ministry, 100 percent of the government. He transferred security to the Joint Chiefs and other jobs to the President, 40 acres of bostan, side by side in the Ottoman mode! What good can come of this? The head of this government tells us with great anger, with a quote from Ziya Pasha: "Do you think that everyone is blind and stupid in the world?" I suspect this Prime Minister, I think that's what he meant to do to our President. He's either going to increase his sugar and put him in the hospital or he's going to increase his blood pressure, and he's going to put him in the hospital because they're pushing solutions, negotiations and so on. I'll tell you what, don't look at them blowing around here like that. These seats won't stay empty like this. Let me tell this to the Prime Minister in a statement from this Ziya Pasha: it does not require this small mind, because this scale will not attract this weight. You cannot take this representation away from this country. Now that our friends are having a group meeting, there's going to be a settlement from that group meeting. Now, speaking of Ziya Pasha, in the Prime Minister's concept world, we have a Prime Minister who's so conservative, so emphasised on such Islamic references, but the concept world is all Westerners. I told you before: we're going to do Toledo. Civilization begins with urbanization, what we call culture before the city. Civilization begins with the city, and it is made by people, and it is influenced by the people, and they are in conflict with one another. The Prime Minister can't think of a city of Islam, so we're going to do Medina. He can't say, for example, the city where civilization is named after us. Or we're going to do an amassia. Or we're going to do an Edirne. Something interesting comes to mind, Toledo. So is this Ziya Pasha. When you read Tercii Bend, he's a man who goes up to the commonwealth. The Caliph is an exiled poet who defied Abdulaziz, and I love him, but there's a problem with the Prime Minister liking him, and there's a problem with giving him his reference. In the case of the prophets, and of the prophets, and of the prophets, he hath questioned them constantly, and in the case of the prophets, Terciii Bend. Mr. Mehdi Eker knows well, they need to get him sober; we follow a policy on this much anti-Western and Western values, and whenever we're stuck, we can't think of anything but the West. Now let's go from Ziya Pasha again. Ziya Pasha spoke well, very wise words: Do you think you can cure every ointment? Here, the trouble is here. Because the disease can't be identified correctly. If the matter is properly identified, it will be clear that the General Staff will not be a drug, nor will military methods be a drug. Opposition, power, let's bring in our friend in Parliament who's been talking about it, and I'm sure we'll do an experiment, and you've been in this investigation -- I'll turn around, I'll tell you exactly what he'll say. The power, the opposition, and we, in addition to ourselves. Now, statistics are just statistics, number of martyrs, number of ditchs, and so on and so forth, and you said that in your day, and the other one did this, and he filled this. We don't even talk about this in the 1st grade of sociology, we need more than that. Because, you know, we need to identify the disease before it starts its treatment. See what happened, or why this process of solutions started. The cognitive phenomena that you listed today, the three parties in common, all existed before the solution process started, and that was the reason for the solution process to begin. If it wasn't already a problem, if it didn't have such deep, root-fed resources, and we didn't put a single tank in the neighborhood, and we did, why would we sit down and talk if all the methods weren't tried? I said there are two ways to do military solutions: to die, to kill. Now the immunity will be lifted. There are two consequences: conviction, acquittal. But politics has a different dimension, and that's compromise, a third option is at the door. Military methods and judicial methods are historic. Every game starts from scratch, but politics, speech, search, includes another dimension that they don't have, which is historical. Since we have the wisdom to look at the benefits, the damage, the profit of the methods that have been tried before us, they've built us a Parliament outside the General Staff, or a place outside the courts, so let's discuss this matter... Your position, that's your mission, but there's a large majority of MPs who are supposed to come out here and say what's understandable when he says it, that's where he keeps saying what's understandable; blasphemy, insults, eloquence, that's where they go. Now, about the ditch... Mr. Secretary is here, so let's not be talking about him behind his back. When did the first ditch open? It's on the way to lice-Bingöl land, when the solution process is on the roller coaster. There was a National Security Council meeting, Mr. Minister Imralı met with us as members of the delegation, said these trenches were unacceptable, and said that the political institution should come up with a solution. I, Mr. Pervin Buldan, Mr. Idris Baluken, got up that night, went to the lice, talked to the boilers. Two of our senior sergeants -- one of Nurdakülı, one of them from the Church -- were detained. He said it was not acceptable and that this matter must be resolved immediately by political hands. We asked, why are you doing this? They said: "The people who know the countryside of the country know the country of the region - a fortress is being built. " It brings to mind what a Russian general once said to one of the Turkish Generals or politicians: Why do you feed so many armies? If you're feeding against us, it's very small, if you're feeding against others. There's a fortress being built there, but those who see it; and in the eyes of that people, I emphasised historicality -- in the 1990s process in lice, calling police stations meant the door to the tomb, there were very few people who came in there alive, and there was a crime date, and many of them were kidnapped to perform tributes and other kinds of sanctions on the mountain. The one with the job, the one with the power... a criminal organization was formed in the name of JITEM. This was the only step forward of the government: in those bloodiest times, when the most fascist atrocities were carried out, they lived, and there was no such thing as JITEM. This government did not survive. All the remains of JITEM are in the area. The government is miserable, the Home Secretary naçar and they're defending it. Every day from there, a man's national glory, his honor, his dignity, his photographs, his writings, his treatments. This is the future of the government, and the rest of them have passed away; they do not understand. So, is this the solution? Is this the road? When Mr. Secretary was Undersecretary of the Prime Minister, he gave me historical manuscripts -- historically -- to modern Turkish, and I have a set. I've read a significant, significant part of it all. They don't know about Anatolian sociology, they're focused on a narrow understanding of Taassup, and those who know this Anatolian sociology have forgotten. Anatolian heterodoxia is the problem with this land, and so are many of those manuscripts. What is it? We can sum it up: Turkishism is not interested in human ontology, we are interested in human condition... I always say, when he came to this land, he was all 150 horses; he was a weak Byzantine, a weary Christian, a weary Jewry, disbanded people. Those Turkish alperans said, "We look at 72 nations with a charm." They said, "We are interested in the condition of the people." It's also a promise to our Republican People's Party friends. Now, there can't be a reason, there can't be a reason, there can't be a jam here: we'll be seen next to HDP if we say yes to immunity. It's not like that, but it's just that Anatolian heterodoxy that Mr. Kildaroglu should know very well because he's the son of a vein that feeds from there. We're interested in the state of people, brother. Today, this human being is oppressed. You're telling me whose teeth were touched by blood today. Today you're saying, if you're not Turkish, obey. Necist words, necis; it's no use. There is not a single nation on earth that bows down to its ground, so let alone the Kurds, there is not a nation that is subjugated by it. You can't feed a 5-year-old a lunch with this, you can't put him to sleep. We're interested in human condition. Then you can't do that. He'll say, e, this one doesn't exist. Let us not die. These are the days to be called, but we have no right to do so. What did Western imperial states do? I regret to inform you, from the bottom of my heart, that they've been exporting their own internal contradictions and conflicts to countries as repelled as we have, to stabilize their development and their own inner peace. So, what did we do? We export all the conflicts of the ruling bloc within ourselves -- no matter who it is, no matter who it is -- to the Kurds, we know nothing else; that's all we drink. But if we choose not to be enemies, really, there is no place in this country that the human resources of this country -- in Turkish, in Kurdish, in Laz, in Armenian, in Suryani, in Arab, because it has thousands of years of genetic heritage -- cannot take this country. Even the most nationalist sensitivities can't do anything but come here and investigate Kurd. You can't make anyone kneel with this, you can't make anyone beg. But, please? It would cost a lot of society. That's what's happening today. It is not a Kurdish-Turkish conflict; it is an internal, sovereign conflict. They have found the most effective and most historical method, to show that this is not the case with Kurds, where everyone is aligned. Today, the image of a minister's son in a casino is part of the internal power struggle, how will the European Union deal with you? Why don't you get a rooster, 'Esas is in charge of the President'? The newspaper's writing is part of the internal power struggle. Now, we've come to all of this to do politics, to open up space here. All of these conditions, and maybe the ground is heavier, and we've traveled for three years in the previous periods of conflict. Many things seemed to be spoken today, but such a seed of hate has been planted, so many fires have fallen on the stoves that we need five to ten years and a very large national mobilization to make it safe today. Here's your work, brag. Where do you go from here? The day you're defeated -- and it's not just gonna be your defeat, it's the day we're divided forever, wherever you're thinking of getting where you're going, where you're going to get where you're going, no accident, no damage, no loss. So when we get to the point where we get to the point where you describe it as victory, which you're happy with, what you want to reach, the disaster that's waiting for us is going to be even worse. They're going to throw us out of the House; come on, throw us out, and you shoot us, and we're not dead? The best we know is the graveyards, prisons, but you can't make us kneel, you can't make us beg, you can't make us chicken out; there's plenty of them all around you. You'll find a lot of Cudams to align with this memorization, but you won't find any of us. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0053par0101	Thank you, Mr. Commander. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bartın MP Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya will speak. Here you go, Mr. Yalcinkaya.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0054par0105	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party on the basis of the gene question we made regarding Minister of Interior Efkan Ala. I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my speech, I wish God's mercy to all of our security forces who were killed in the fight against terrorism and to all our citizens who died in terrorist attacks, to our wounded, to our immediate healings, and to their relatives. Happily, we have brave, patriotic people who gave their lives for this country without blinking. Our soldiers, our police, our security guards, the lion's-hearted sons of this country, I applaud and salute you for your country's struggle. I'm glad you're here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, High Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has pointed out the foreign policy of the young Republic of Turkey, saying that a peace movement which aims at the security of Turkey will be our motto, which is not against any nation. Again, in 1935, when he spoke, nations in the world are regarded as residents of an apartment building. If an apartment building is set on fire by some of its inhabitants, there is no way that others can survive the fire. At the point where we are now, the building is on fire due to the wrong internal and foreign policy of the AKP government, and the fire has spread to our floor as well. Unfortunately, today we see that we have become a country in Turkey where great suffering, tears don't stop, martyr news follows news, bombs go off, our citizens can't walk the streets, they can't feel safe, they can't feel safe, they can't feel safe. Our country has turned into the practice plateau of terrorist organizations where the person who wants to perform the vile scenario that he wants to do. Organizations do their jobs in peace, no obstacles, why? Because the Home Secretary is too busy plotting against opponents, non-profits. Today many of the world's most respected countries, including the banana republics, are concerned that Turkey will be in simultaneous internal turmoil with Syria. Thanks to you, the country has been disgraced by seven subjects. The people of these countries became afraid to come to Turkey. You have made Turkey a free country from a hospitable country. The sea of peace, the Aegean Sea, has become a sea of blood and life because of you. There's nothing you haven't done that didn't rub off on you. Because of you, there's no peace and quiet in the land. In 2002, when the AKP came to power, the terrorist incidents that came to a halt moved to an uncontrollable point due to false policies followed. The terrorist incidents have ceased to be local events, turned to massization, and put our national integrity and security at risk. At this point, our country faces the biggest terror bill of the last 19 years. Turkey has a serious problem with intelligence and security deficits. Our country's intelligence agencies are inoperable. Dear friends, the AKP government has resuscitated terrorism that was reset in 2002. During this period of government, terrorist organizations were given life and allowed to reshape. As if the PKK's plague was not enough for Turkey, ISIS and many other terrorist organizations, whose name you do not even know, have been put in trouble. Turkey has been the target of the most terrorist organization in the world. This power has made Turkey a typical country of fear in the Middle East, as a result of numerous errors in both domestic and foreign policy. Citizens inside, neighbors outside, they say, "What will happen to this country?" They fear and fear, for to God belongs the security of the land and of the people. When we look at the last two months alone, 12 foreign citizens have lost their lives and 14 others have been injured as a result of a live bomb attack in Sultanahmet, Istanbul on January 12, 2016. 29 of our citizens were killed and 60 of our citizens were injured in a bomb attack on Ankara Merasim Street on February 17, 2016. On March 13, 2016, 37 of our citizens lost their lives and 71 others were injured in the bomb attack in Kızılay district of Ankara. On March 19, 2016, four foreign citizens were killed and 36 were injured as a result of a live bomb attack on İstiklal Street in Istanbul. We have a list of names of live bombs in Turkey, but we can't arrest them unless there is action." Prime Minister Davutoglu's words were surprised not only in Turkey, but throughout the world. According to the prime minister, dozens of live bombs move freely across our country. The balance sheet for ongoing ditch operations has been heavy. By the end of March, about 200 of our security guards were killed in Sur, İdil, Cizre, Silopi, Derik, Nusaybin and Dargezit. While all these brutal events have been happening, the Home Office has been in great weakness of intelligence and security. General Staff, 29 innocent people have been killed in an area in the Turkish Grand National Assembly and ministry triangle on February 17th in a bomb attack on a military service vehicle. The bomb vehicle that was used in this attack was purchased by terrorists, terrorists drove nearly 3,000 kilometers in that vehicle in two months, loaded bombs, shuttled from the eastmost part of Turkey to the west, and then came and carried out that brutal act in Ankara's heart. Despite the scene of the vehicle on the MOBESE cameras, terrorism was not prevented. These painful truths came to light after the explosion. On this dramatic public weakness, citizens were probably busy throwing away reprimands while describing the inn or the inn of the road passer. (HPP) So Mr. Secretary of the Interior has been transferred from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Twitter affairs. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I ask you if there are any other ministers sitting in that chair in his country's capital, who have sacrificed 167 citizens for terrorism and then I am the Minister of the Interior. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On March 13, 2016, before the terrorist attack in Kızılay district of Ankara, the US Embassy announced to its employees and families that there would be an explosion in the vicinity of Kızılay and Bahçlievs and warned them not to go to those areas. In the same way, on March 19, 2016, before the bombing on Istanbul İstiklal Street, Germany's consulate halted its services, warning its employees and families not to wander around the area. Unfortunately, the U.S. Embassy and the German consulate have been able to have information on the pre-insurgency events, warning their citizens, but the Home Office has not been able to warn their own citizens, not warn them, not prevent them from taking action. This shows weakness that has reached a point of neglect in intelligence and security. During the Minister's period, Turkey has become a country where its citizens have learned vital warnings about terrorist actions from foreign diplomatic missions. Intelligence embassies, bombings, Saudis, justice from America, open Reza, oh, good, good. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You're a rare Home Secretary for terrorist organizations in Ankara, Mr. Minister. Thanks to you, the country swims in the ocean of tears every day. Therefore, you are coming as Home Secretary in charge of political responsibility for weaknesses at the point of neglect in intelligence and security. We warned you many times, but you didn't fail to do what you knew. You took the head of the General Staff of the GES from the Joint Chiefs of Staff and linked it to the National Intelligence Agency, and today the result is that the country has surrendered to a complete intelligence weakness. It's clear that the power struggle inside the Ministry has taken an important place for the country to become like this. Unfortunately, there is a weakness in the fight against terrorism when religious groups, cults, have played an important role in the struggle for power within themselves, both the governor and the governor trying to take power in their post as police commissioners. Despite being well - raised, successful, and well - qualified people who will serve in these ranks of the government, the battle of dominance prevents them from taking office. It's Mr. Home Secretary who allows it. Dear friends, the Ministry of Interior's priority is to protect our country's indivisible integrity, the home security and security of our country, the safety of our people's lives and property. The Ministry of Interior has failed to carry out its duties due to illegal activities, and has failed to deal effectively with terrorist organisations with tolerance and ignorance, and therefore there is no confidence and peace of mind in the country because public order cannot be maintained. Governors, trustees, police chiefs, and other officials in charge of security and security in the cities in which terrorist incidents have been committed have also fallen into a position where the Ministry of Interior does not know what to do because of its inconsistencies in the fight against terrorism and its wrong practices. Terrorist organizations trying to form a state within the state have taken over cities through the construction of cities. Roads were dug, barricades were set up, tons of explosive materials laid out on roads, buildings, vehicles, everywhere. The terrorist organization has set up courts, served with the government's post office. Again, the terrorist organization has established a tax office, and the people of the region have been violated. The state security cameras have been turned off, the Heron flights haven't been made. "The camera is blind, the antenna is deaf." The headline is on the front page. (HPP clapping in rows) The road has been cut off and the vehicles have been stopped, ID checks have been made. Adeta was declared to be a saved area. Unfortunately, during this time, the Home Secretary, in charge of the country's public order, has ignored all of this and has failed to demonstrate his determination to fight terrorist organizations in the face of what has happened. We've learned the reason for the minister's inability to do what is necessary in this matter in February, during his geneorial interviews. We found out Mr. Secretary's been busy calling the government. "The terrorist organization has changed course; it has dug holes, barricades, and set up explosive devices, " he said during his speech. But the question might come to mind: "Where was this state when this was happening?" Yes, dear friends, it is a sad situation for the Minister to look for the state in the high office where he represents the state. (CHP clapping in rows) So there's a complete eclipse. Mr. Secretary, you are the state, you are in charge; governors, governors, police commissioners, you are in charge. If you had done exactly what your Ministry had to do today in a sense of authority and responsibility in fighting against those who tried to become a state by entering our country when border security was destroyed in those cities near the border, you would not have gone looking for the state today, saying, "Where is the state?" [[Applause from CHP rows]] One of the most important things about being a state is to take precautions against attempts to disrupt social peace. In this context, it is a crime to avoid a strict surveillance of the terrorist organization, but to prepare an environment to prepare an action for the terrorist organization. For months, even years, the terrorist organization has acquired all the necessary equipment needed to restart acts of violence, while the organisation has been deliberately allowed to store weapons and ammunition at the expense of staying in power for a while longer and passing several elections. Governors in the region have been instructed to tolerate and tolerate these events so that no harm could come to the solution process. As a matter of fact, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan was part of a television programme on September 17, 2015, in which our governors were not seriously involved in operations against these terrorist organizations, according to our instructions to them. Maybe they'll pull themselves together, maybe they won't go on like this, but unfortunately they haven't cleaned themselves up. You're the only government in the world that allows a terrorist organization to reform itself. So you're the only government that cooperates with the terrorist organization. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] For the sake of evading election times, the terrorist organization has been openly blind to armed and cumulative activities carried out in rural areas but especially in urban centers.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0055par0135	What kind of government would cooperate with a terrorist organization? What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0054par0136	The headline from the report submitted to the National Security Council in Sabah, August 8, 2015 is that the terrorist organisation has piled up 80,000 weapons in cities.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0055par0137	You've declared your government, your government a terrorist organization, isn't that a shame? Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0054par0138	Therefore, the main reason for the curfew that lasts days in some cities, especially Sur, Cizre, Silopi and Nusaybin, is because of the long-term resistance of the terrorist organization, as much as it does to ensure the least damage to civilian citizens. Yes, Mr. Secretary, you can't escape responsibility with hundreds of tons of bombs and a large number of long barrel guns being stored in cities, with holes being dug up, with the government being removed from the city's presence, as you closed your eyes and as you explained in the meeting of the genera, the number of holes you've taken, the number of holes you've removed, the weapons you've captured, the rocket launchers and explosives you can't escape responsibility. So you can't escape responsibility, you can't go looking for the government because you're the government. You have to ask yourself what a statesman is, what it means. Governmentism is measured by the success of the government. During your time as Minister, you caused hundreds of civilians to die and hundreds of security guards to die. During your time as Minister, our country did not run out of pain, sorrow, and tears. We're looking at a complete disaster. Do you look back and question what happened? How many parents were adopted during your time? How many kids were left without a father? How many women are unique? Your conscience must be aching, Mr. Secretary. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0056par0142	Thank you, Mr. Yalcinkaya. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İzmir MP Hamza Mountain will speak. Here you go, Mr. Mountain.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0057par0146	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group regarding the generator the Republican People's Party has made regarding our Minister of Interior, Mr. Efkan Ala. I salute you all with love. First of all, I ask the citizens of the Republic of Turkey and the citizens of the foreign country who died in these four attacks and other attacks to have mercy on them and to have patience with their relatives. And I hope, in our country and in the world, that this kind of hand of terror will never happen again. Dear friends, I curse all terrorist organizations again on behalf of myself and my party. We, the AK PARTY, have determined not to discriminate on the subject by saying that the language, religion, and race are non-discriminate, without distinguishing like others. My terrorist is good, the other terrorist is evil. A thought such as this is clearly not acceptable. Unfortunately, when there are terrorist incidents, those who curse to fill their mouths when these terrorist incidents are carried out by the DAEŞ, frankly, the PKK, when it's done by the NYD, either give up curses or half-mouths, even after the terrorist incidents that have passed away by dozens of people, have made it very clear that they are not insincere about it. We are well aware of these insincere postures. Our nation also knows and watches this insincere posture. Those who take it upon themselves to feed on the blood of this nation will be drowned in their blood. Dear friends, you know, there are different methods in our Constitutional framework for the control of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; these are questions, parliamentary research, parliamentary investigation, general discussion and genera. The gene is an important mechanism. Its gene is a mechanism that can be achieved when it's really revealed. Since yesterday... we've been interviewing two gene pools yesterday, we're interviewing the third one today, we're interviewing the fourth one on Thursday. Obviously, his geneorial function has been watered down recently. We see that the procedure on the business of the genre faces slowing down and blocking the procedures the Turkish Grand National Assembly must perform. When I look at this gene, and look at the situation with this gene, the effects of this attack on four attacks, and after the panic in society has begun to decrease, I honestly think it makes sense, and I want to express my regrets. You know, since the 1970s, our country has been fighting terrorist organizations such as the PKK, the Marxist Leninist DHKP-C, MLKP, the religious abuser Hezbollah, DEAS -- terrorist organizations of different sizes -- starting with ASALA. Terror is a crime of humanity targeting societies. Terrorism is intended to undermine the state's authority by creating fear and frustration in people. They're using systematic violence for these purposes. Turkey's aims have been different lately, its ideology has been fighting different terrorist organisations. The reasons Turkey has been targeted by terrorist organisations: its geopolitical position, geostrategic position, and recently, in particular, a growing country that has been growing in its region and in the country for 15 years is one of the reasons that terrorist organisations have targeted Turkey. At the same time, the lack of stability and conflict in Syria, our 877km limit and the proximity of the conflict environment to Turkey, has led terrorist organisations such as PKK, ACK, NYD, to move more freely and increase their actions towards our country. The Republic of Turkey is struggling with the largest and largest terrorism in its history. I condemn those who betray in this struggle from this stand again. We know that there have been many declarations and reports made to promote the fight against terrorism, especially the declaration of so-called academics, whose title is treason, but only to us. These people have not been able to give us human rights lessons so far, not to mention those who shielded civilians from law enforcement and ignored those who harmed the people of the region financially and spiritually. At this point, I'd like to thank you once again for our security forces, who are making the best of this struggle by distinguishing between civilian and terrorist. Dear friends, when we look at these recent incidents of terrorism, we see that the two terrorist organizations have taken the lead -- one PKK, the other DAEŞ. You know, although the PKK's terrorist organization was said to have been founded by Marxist-Leninist, Maoist ideology, its only ideology was blood and hatred, and throughout history, it did not avoid subcontractorship with Turkey's enemies. On 15 August 1984, he performed his first act in Siirt Eruh and Hakari Shemdinli. From that period to this period, he caused a number of acts that led to the direct death of civilian people. It's a terrorist organization that has done the greatest financial and spiritual damage to our country throughout history. Since 1984, more than 8,000 of our people have been martyred for terrorism, and our people have been brutally killed by PKK terror organizations without being called women, children, babies in arson. Despite the fact that it cannot be measured by any material value, there is also damage -- according to data -- around 1.5 trillion. This terrorist organization has recently launched violent acts in city centers, in ways that cannot explain its purpose and reason, which have seen all kinds of suffering, tears, especially Kurds. With the terrorist organization that forced people from their homes, their cities to migrate, our law enforcement forces are engaged in a tough and successful fight. Those who have martyred people waiting for a bus to go home, who have shot our police, our soldiers, by shielding themselves, and those terrorists are justified, and who consider them a legitimate means of opposition, deserve to lose in both cases. We honestly don't expect those who have peace in their tongues, hatred and hatred in their hearts to understand it. The DAEŞ terrorist organisation has been a terrorist organization that has emerged in Syria since 2011 to form a radical selefi religious state, which has benefited from instability in the region, along with an environment of instability in Syria. It is a monument that makes every Muslim who is not one of them disbelieves in it. Such as Turkey, it considers it a court-martial, a state of blasphemy, a structure that says it cannot be served here, can't be served, can't be voted or even can't be prayed behind imams. In the slums of Europe, there are people who have been replaced, alienated, who have engaged in hate speech with Islamophobia, who are in the area of the address of DAEŞ. Both our Ministry of Religious Affairs and our Ministry of Interior are doing serious work on this matter. At this point, unfortunately, some opposition parties who feel that they can't legally overthrow the AK PARTI power, that they can't defeat the AK PARTY by choice, are obviously trying to show cooperation with the AK PARTI power and the state of the Republic of Turkey. Here they receive logistic support from another terrorist organization. The EC PARTI will continue its fight against illegal structures after which it has come to power by legal means and by the votes of the nation, and has kept its distance from illegal structures. But we don't think anyone who can't call a terrorist organization like the PKK, a terrorist organization like the DHKP-C, can understand and perceive this situation. As a Muslim, as a person trying to live Islam, I say very clearly from here that DAEŞ is a terrorist organization, and at the same time, the peace of Islam, the quiet environment of Islam, and the spiritual satisfaction of Islam, as people flocked around the world to Islam, causing the greatest harm to Islam. And while we clearly declare this terrorist organization everywhere, unfortunately, from this stand and from where we sit many times, I would like to express our regret to see that many MPs within this parliament cannot call these organisations "the terrorist organization" on this matter, even though we call them "the director of the PKK terrorist organization, the director of the DHKP-C terrorist organization." ON September 30, 2013, a terrorist organization was introduced by the Council of Ministers before the DAEŞ even began its actions and many issues in the world were unknown. At the same time, foreign terrorist fighters came to the agenda and 37,053 people were banned from entering our country and 3,124 others were sent abroad. DAEŞ is not only involved in actions in Turkey or Syria, Iraq, but, you know, as you all follow, it is also about actions abroad. In this regard, France carried out an act in which more than 100 people died and more than 200 others were injured on November 13th or 14th. On 22 March 2016, Belgium carried out a similar action in Brussels. The DAEŞ remains a threat to the entire world, especially to Muslim countries. This so-called struggle in the name of Islam is most damaging to Muslims and causing Islamophobia to be increased in some way. We have so far opposed both the DAEŞ terrorist organization and the anti-Islamic anti-Islamicism and the hostility of Islam, we will continue to oppose it. Well, when I look at the motion to ask about our Minister, I'd like to say that I'm quite surprised, that his motive is very strange. My dear friends, the events of travel in general have been seen as a legitimate opposition. I'm telling you very clearly, it's not something that can be thought or accepted, to burn down the streets, to move the sidewalks, to destroy the stops, and to see these actions in the context of thought, freedom of speech, meeting, demonstration march, to see legitimate opposition, in a very strange way -- and to put that reason out there is not something that can be considered and accepted. We also regret that those who refer to them as the founding party of the Republic are arm in arm with some illegal organizations. In particular, the recent alliance with illegal structures to overthrow the government cannot be closed with the idea of this legitimate opposition. Dear friends, we have been fighting as the Republic of Turkey since July and as the government that rules the country. We're fighting against many terrorist organizations -- DHKP-C, DAESS, PKK -- and while we're fighting against this terrorist organization, unfortunately, we see a partnership. In dealing with these organizations, sometimes the CHP, sometimes the HDP's...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0058par0165	Are you guys fighting with MIT trucks? Those rockets are falling on us now!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0059par0166	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0057par0167	Sometimes we see voices coming from different places. Obviously, you can put a partnership in a different way. There are different forms of partnership in trade law: commando partners, collective partners, anonymous companies. Frankly, I consider it an inferior partnership. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look at all the stuff they've been doing lately. Look, the DHKP-C) terrorist Berna Yilmaz was acting under the name of the so-called money-free education, insulting the police, the Prime Minister, the President. He's been sentenced to membership in a terrorist organization. And who was this Berna Yilmaz who stood trial for this when he was sentenced? It was the CHP who gave it to him.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0060par0170	Tell me about the MIT helicopter to Oslo!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0057par0171	So, what did Berna Yilmaz do next?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0060par0172	You sent the MIT helicopter to Oslo!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0061par0173	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0057par0174	This Berna Yilmaz later...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0060par0175	Who sent the helicopter to Oslo?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0061par0176	Dear friend... Mr. Yfriend, please...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0060par0177	Who met with Ocalan?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0062par0178	This Berna Yilmaz then fired a gun on the riot police in Bayrampaşa, where he was killed. Well, Elif Sultan Kalsen...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0060par0180	Let them go, let them go!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0063par0181	Congressmans, there's a speaker on the stand.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0062par0182	Elif Sultan Kalsen was a terrorist who acted against the Istanbul Police Department.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0060par0183	Has the helicopter gone to Oslo? Tell me about him!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0062par0184	Friends, the truth may disturb you. Relax. The facts may disturb you, of course. You weren't doing anything while you were talking.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0060par0185	Did the helicopter of the MIT go to Oslo? Did he go to Kandil?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0062par0186	Elif Sultan Kalsen attacked the Istanbul Police, wounded one of our officers.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0060par0187	Look, look behind this, it's telling! We sent a helicopter to Kandil. It says, helicopter!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0064par0188	Dear friend, please, I beg you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0062par0189	Do you know where we first heard about Elif Sultan Kalsen, who was called a live bomb? From the Republican People's Party Human Rights Report.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0060par0191	You called live bombs!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0062par0192	It's not over.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0065par0194	Who ordered the governors to stay out of it?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0060par0195	You called the terror organization angry children. You're aiding a terrorist!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0062par0196	Who's the so-called teacher who's been on a show, who's been calling himself a teacher, and who's been promoting this terrorist organization on this show? You took care of it. The other guy, the one who hosted the show, couldn't even take care of it. Who had a language written to wear down the war on terror? You guys took care of it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0066par0198	Since 2013, you have raised terrorism.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0067par0199	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0062par0200	Before the election, who appeared on IMC TV, which everyone knew was the PKK's publishing body? Who owned IMC TV when it was shut down by the court? You. You do nothing but legitimize them.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0068par0201	You're shutting it down without law, it's illegal. We're just gonna let the law go?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0062par0202	You're the one who couldn't call the PYD a terrorist organization in Syria who tortured Kurds, Turks, Arabs, and struggled to create one type of human being. The PKK has not forgotten the action you did in front of the posters of the DHKP-C. And I don't want to tell you how old you were at the terrorist funerals. In 2011, you had a rally with thousands of people in Hakkari, and you couldn't hang a Turkish flag. In 2015, you had a rally in İzmir, before November 1st, and in that rally you couldn't hang the Turkish flag. Your president made a statement about immunity, you've had at least 10 MPs so far, and we'll vote differently on immunity. You said. One of your vice presidents recently emerged, who saw this battle as a mere contrast with Israel's anti-Palestinianism. I say to that vice president: Go to Çanakkale, and enter a Çanakkale, with a good guide, and travel, where you will see what a glorious army Mehmet Chikuk is. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I wish that was it, I wish that was it. Look, a band recently supported a terrorist group in Izmir Çimli, Group Comment, wanted to give a concert and the governorship had to cancel it for security reasons. All of your local executives have come out, and they've said a lot of things about that concert. Do you know where this band ended up when they didn't give a concert at Çilli? You know, Tunceli took over the terrorist who was involved in the shooting with our police. Aren't you ashamed to defend them?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0069par0207	Wow! Oh, man!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0062par0208	Look, I'm telling you something very clear: Recently our Tokat MP, Zayid Aslan, said, "The children of Kawa will destroy PKK and its political extensions." I say, "The first bullet in the national struggle will bury you in the chest in the first election, which put the enemy in the sea on 9 September and put the end to the national struggle, the nation's beka, the province's continuation, the sons of Izra, and the sons of Egebagihan's children, who will bury you in the ark in the first election. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've always known the CHP would cooperate with the custody centers, but in this struggle, unfortunately, we don't understand your involvement with the terrorist organization at the moment. During a weekend programme, the president of the Republican People's Party said something about returning to the founding values and returning to the founding values to save the country. No institution, no structure in this country has a problem with the founding values. Right now, there's a political movement that has a problem with founding values, and that's the Republican People's Party. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Finally, I say: There was a poem by the late Abdurrahim Karakoch, which I wrote in the letter, Hassana/Ha Hassana, or you. To be honest, we write letters from here, and we try to say something. Before that, the speakers before me said many things.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0070par0214	You're the one who dragged Turkey into a conflict, tell yourself.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0062par0215	We tell you in the squares, we write you letters, but we're not dealing with one CHP, we're dealing with five CHPs. Whichever gets this letter, this country needs a good main opposition party, and that's how you get it. I salute you all with love, respect, conversation.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0071par0218	Thank you, Mr. Mountain. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0072par0220	Mr. orator, during his speech, he made several accusations against our group directly, to answer them...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0071par0221	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0073par0222	He's showing off.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0071par0223	I'm sorry, just a minute... Members of parliament, on this bench, of course, every thought must be freely conveyed, but at the same time, all thoughts from this stand and when we sit down must be listened to with respect. I don't need to remind you of that, but unfortunately, in some moments, I felt the need to say it again. Here you go, Mr. Special. I've started your two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0074par0229	Mr. President, thank you. We're talking about our group's genome. During the talks of our ministers, as these speeches began, Mr. Minister's chemistry was corrupted as long as it was explained as the disaster that led to the country was explained, not as a terrorist organization, but as the minister's words, the negligence, the terrorist organization, began with a face expression. In that case, we wouldn't want to be in the position of Mr. Minister as the Republican People's Party shouts the truth in front of him. May God never put a Minister of Interior of the Republic of Turkey in this position again.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0075par0232	The Home Secretary cooperates with the terrorist. You call the Home Secretary a terrorist.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0074par0233	Here's to the evaluations of the friend who was given the bench by the AKP. We listened to our friend's evaluations. We can say very clearly that whatever terrorist organization he calls his name, the Republican People's Party condemns this terrorist organization unconditionally, terrorism is a crime of humanity.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0075par0235	How dare you call me a terrorist!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0076par0236	Congressmans, I've just made a statement, please...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0074par0237	But you, ISIS, are a terrorist organization. You can't say, ISIS, the angry children of the region.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0075par0238	Mr. President, he calls the Home Secretary a terrorist. How could he say that?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0076par0239	Please take your seat.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0074par0240	...then when you criticize ISIS, you'll be struck in the face. When you say ISIS, you're not ashamed enough to do it first, then to do it again. You can't even condemn ISIS by looking a citizen in the eye!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0076par0242	Don't insult me, Mr. Special, please.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0077par0243	Behave yourself! Know your place! Speak up!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0074par0244	Besides, the Republican People's Party has only one alliance, which is an alliance with its people, but yesterday you're so incoherent that you'll ally with the terrorist organization and go to the martyr funerals today, you're shameless!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0077par0246	You're shameless! Bastard! You son of a bitch!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0078par0247	Mr. Free Private, it would be much better if you spoke in a clean language.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0077par0248	What a shameless thing to do!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0079par0249	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0078par0250	Mr. Cakir, please.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0079par0251	The Republican People's Party Deputy President of the People's Party has returned to our group and used a concept in the form of "You will not be ashamed."
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0080par0252	He got what he deserved, what he deserved. He got the answer he deserved.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0079par0253	It's an open taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0081par0254	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0079par0257	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, there's a geneorization here, there's talks, there's a dose of talks, there's tensions. It's understandable. It's understandable at some point when we raise our voice. In fact, to some extent it is understandable that Free Bey is shouting. But no matter what tone we use, the concepts, the words, and the use of those words to us are never understandable, never acceptable. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] First of all, when a congressman uses the word "subjective" the original weight of this word...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0082par0261	They show how shameless they are, those who use that word.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0079par0262	He needs to know what it's like, what it's made of, what it's made of. I can tell you, Mr. Free couldn't have used it if this concept had the right to the meaning of this word. I wish, I wish, and I hope that Mr. Free will understand how serious this concept is, and you will never use it again. But, of course, since we've had enough of the meaning of this word, I'm returning this word to Free Bey with the same word.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0082par0264	Yeah, more than enough.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0079par0265	Dear friends, one thing I've said before from this bench: we can make all kinds of criticisms, criticisms, but we mustn't go outside the box. We can, we can, we can, we can, but I'm sure if the group violates the vice presidents first, I'm sure that everyone will say -- as you call it -- if a goat goes after him, the herd goes after him. So I say one more thing I say from this stand, and I turn it off: there is neither religion nor faith in the wicked, but there is no faith in the wicked. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit02spe0083par0269	I'm gonna take a 15-minute break from the merger, and I'm gonna invite the group presidents to meet.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0083par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the name of the government, Mr. Efkan Ala is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Ala. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0084par0009	Mr. President, I salute our high-profile congresswoman. At the beginning of my words, I pray for the mercy of all our martyrs, the Lord Almighty, the speedy healing of our wounded, the grateful remembrance of our veterans, the mercy of our citizens who lost their lives in terrorist attacks. Dear President, we have been fighting the terror problem, which has cost thousands of lives and hundreds of billions of dollars, which has cost Turkey a great deal. To understand this problem, it is necessary to remind and remember the approach of Turkey in the 1980s and 1990s. Until 1987, martial law and an extraordinary state of conduct between 1987 and 2002 sought a solution to this problem. When we took power, there was a state of emergency in Turkey. There are some allegations that you've taken over a non-terrorized country. Why was there a state of emergency if we took over a non-terror-free country? I'd like to offer your appreciation for such judgment.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0085par0012	2002.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0086par0013	What was the number of martyrs, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0087par0014	It was a precaution, just in case.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0088par0015	Since there are no systematic and structural transformations and reforms...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0087par0016	So you don't break glass!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0088par0017	...in these days, no permanent results have been received. During this period, political initiatives were not taken, political definitions were not made, politics was completely disabled; politics was not developed, the solution was entrusted only to security policies, no political, social projects were produced to solve the problem. Sociocultural and socioeconomic causes, social traumas, human dramas. Denial understanding, which constantly makes enemies for him, sees differences as a threat to him, has made the problem more difficult instead of a solution. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers have taken the initiative to solve the problem that had been gangrene for 35 years when the AK PARTI power came to power in 2002. In the past, the problem of terrorism, which had previously only been attributed to security understanding, politics, political, social, economic, cultural, and very serious reforms have been discussed. Dear lawmakers, democracy has been developed at this time, and democratic steps have been made without hesitation, despite all efforts to cut off the front at any cost. Because we know that there is a relationship between democracy and terrorism: as democracy develops in a country, as it becomes institutional, societal support for terrorism decreases, and this has happened. Today there's an AK PARTY and it's the first party. That is because we have a sense that touches man, that captures man from his heart, that appreciates man because he is a man. Friends, this has penetrated all of our policies in every detail. Of course, the fight against terrorists is another motto, and there is a war on terrorism, where today -- if you ask anyone in our country, which of our citizens -- is a very effective and very successful terrorist war. My dear brothers and sisters, we have carried out the goal of forward democracy, the EU integration process, democratic reforms, integrated and multi-dimensional policies to eliminate the terror issue from our country's agenda. In November 2002, yes, we came to power, but there was a state of emergency and we ended it. As soon as he arrived, one of the first acts was to put an end to the extraordinary process. We have implemented projects and reforms that will solve these problems by identifying factors that cause regional lag, disinterest, discrimination, and exclusion. As a result, the economy rose in the region, and investments began to rise. My dear brothers, valued MPs; in the 1990s, there were village evacuations at that time; citizens, perperishan, were taken from their places, their homelands, and no one held out their hands where they went. We've lived there as bureaucrats, we've seen them live, but again, when the AK PARTI government came to power, in those 1990s -- when he wasn't in power -- he made a law to undo this error that had been done to citizens, and he began to compensate for the harm done to those who were harmed by terrorism. We've paid $3.5 billion in this frame so far. These are the issues I've been talking about to refresh our memory. So where we come from, where we are, my dear brothers and sisters, the esteemed MPs.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0089par0022	Now the terrorists are evacuating the cities, terrorist!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0088par0023	And yet, in order to improve the economic, social status of our citizens, our governorships are earmarked every year from the budget. During that time, we did important work to boost our citizens' trust in the state and to eliminate the ground that terrorism has abused for years. We have developed fundamental and right freedoms against discrimination through democratic reforms. We've lifted the meaningless bans on our citizen's beliefs and identities. It's known all over the region that people are religious. I mean, it's not much to say; the traumas of the February 28th, the pressures in front of our beliefs, the precious MPs, they don't say much, but they're very important. Because our citizens are religious people there, and they have reacted strongly to every law in front of living their religion, to fulfilling their beliefs. The AK PARTY removed this, too. Of course, it was done by the votes of our citizens, by their support, by their political will. For him, I thank everyone who's worked hard, of course, as Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Turkey, but as a citizen, I thank you from the bottom of my heart. Dear lawmakers began broadcasting TRT Şesh during this period, broadcasting on state television for 24 hours. When we were assigned there, we would be asked to sing a song, and we would imagine it. Here, the honor of removing them and destroying them has been given to us, to us, to this group. Private courses were opened in different languages and dialects; it could not be called "hello"; the scandal in Diyarbakır Prison was well known to everyone, and his mother couldn't say "Hello, how are you?" in her own language. Friends, this month has been terminated by the AK PARTY governments.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0090par0028	Why don't you look over here and tell me?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0088par0029	Dear lawmakers, the work will then be studied as a lesson in the world's political history and will be greeted with respect by democratic people. Conjunctural, shallow criticism shouldn't be too important. Private courses have been opened in different languages and dialects, broadcasting on private radio and televisions, opening departments at universities, teaching different languages as electives, making political propaganda possible, opening private schools, defence rights in the native language, bans imposed on village names have been removed; so, valuable MPs, a paradigm change has been implemented in this country, a silent revolution has occurred. Thus, the terror issue and the citizens' legitimate and democratic demands have been separated, a more sensitive approach to the problems of all communities has been adopted, the system facing its own problems, which has been discussed and discussed with clarity because it has not been discussed in years. During this period, the political and social problems that were abused by terrorism were encouraged. The reforms were truly carried out with great determination. The group that signed this silent revolution, the party and the government are your work, thank you, dear MPs. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, my fellow citizens, whenever Turkey grows and develops, there are always obstacles in its path, and some international actors immediately engage with local collaborators, but we have a power that has earned the public's gratitude and will to resolve problems without transferring them to anyone else. In the 2000s, there have been various obstacles against this power; coup attempts have been made, credits have been given, 367 disgraces have occurred, but none of them have stopped us from our way, and we have come to this problem of terror, which Turkey has taken over as a major problem, with the precious MPs standing in front of us, without hesitation, with a serious initiative and we have come at it. But if you remember, about that... In 2011, my dear brothers, we came to power again, with 50 percent of our citizen's vote, we wanted to settle this matter immediately, and we said, "We will." Immediately, to the National Intelligence Agency, you know, the operation was carried out. After him, my dear friends, dear brothers, respected lawmakers; in 2013, we did not give up, we said, "We will fight again," we said, "We will solve this problem," and we continued our project, but while the world was in crisis, remember, in a month when large investments were made in Turkey, and when terrorists started withdrawing at 8 May 2013.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0091par0034	He's talking about the tender! We gave you the gene, you're talking about the tender!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0088par0035	...when the last installment of the IMF debt was paid, and in a month when the third bridge tender was held, when there was a major development move, about $100 billion in all of this, there was nothing going on, friends, valued lawmakers, you know, the travel events started, and all of this didn't go away, all of this went away.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0092par0036	Who announced it?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0088par0037	Now, they know that if there is political stability in Turkey, Turkey will solve their problems; they know that Turkey will resolve its issues and move on, and they can't get Turkey to do what they want. Dear MPs, then, remember, there have been four-quarter growths and we've recovered again, and we've gone over the issue again. Because if we get rid of it, there's no one who can hold Turkey with 78 million people, there's no one who can. That's why they're constantly putting up obstacles, and this time they've attempted a coup of the parallel gang on December 17th and 25th.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0093par0039	They're parallel to you, you!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0094par0040	It's not like that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0095par0041	There was no such thing.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0096par0042	Then, October 6th, 7th.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0097par0043	Tell me about the growing terrorist incidents, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0096par0044	Then we got back together again, and we took the political initiative to solve this problem again...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0098par0045	There was no such thing!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0096par0046	October 6th, 7th and all...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0099par0047	Tell them about the Ankara massacres, the Ankara massacres.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0096par0048	Gentlemen, I listened while you were talking.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0099par0049	Tell me about the Ankara massacres.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0096par0050	If I say something you like, we won't be able to go higher than 25 percent, and we'll lose 11 elections.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0099par0052	Answer the gene, the gene.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0096par0053	Why aren't you listening?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0099par0054	Answer the question.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0096par0055	So, you've lost 11 elections, and we've won every choice we've had since 2002.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0099par0056	Hitler had won, too.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0096par0057	Excuse me... We know who our policies are going to be told, who you're going to get approval from. We speak our policies to our citizens. I'm speaking from here on the basis of the satisfaction of our citizens.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0099par0059	Adolf Hitler had won the election.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0096par0060	Their satisfaction in the chest, their satisfaction in the street, is more important to us than the satisfaction of all jacobens or everyone else.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0100par0061	Is everyone happy with these terrorist incidents?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0099par0062	Is everyone happy with the rockets that fell into the church?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0096par0063	So we took our policies, and the citizen who gave us 50 percent, and the citizen who brought you to power in every election didn't bring you to power.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0101par0064	It's not about power, it's about dignity, Mr. Secretary, it's about dignity!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0099par0065	How will the reputation come back?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0096par0066	In that sense, I don't think -- I don't think I'm suggesting, of course, you know what to do, but -- if you could just listen to us, it might be in your best interest.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0102par0067	Oh, no, thank you!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0096par0068	Dear lawmakers, there have been recent events in the Middle East that have been happening -- of course, very fast -- and this, of course, has reflected in our country. There's an organization of terrorists, terrorist organizations, a coalition, and these terrorist organizations are attacking with this coalition. Remember June 7th to November 1st. The constitutional government has been created in this country. It was the citizen's discretion. Even in the Constitutional government, at the time of the most severe terrorist attack, dear friends, forgive me, but even then those who avoid taking political responsibility should have nothing to say to those who are trying to solve this matter day and night.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0103par0071	We didn't participate in your murders, your murders!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0104par0072	That's a shame! Pity!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0105par0073	Mr. President, step in.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0106par0074	Dear friends, there is a great slander against Turkey.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0104par0075	It's a shame, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0106par0076	Those who understand that they cannot erase the EC PARTY from the hearts of the nation in Turkey, of course, start slandering with international collaborators. It's a matter of DEAS... we've been fighting PKK terrorism for years, we've been fighting it most effectively, but as far as DEAS is concerned, they're going to refer to Turkey with some sort of subtle phrase, but it's not us, it's not us, it's not even the mud that gets us.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0107par0077	Two minutes to go, and tell me about Dolmabahçe.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0106par0078	Look, dear lawmakers, we've put a ban on 41,027 foreigners from 128 countries so far on these issues. With who? International, collaborating with governments, cooperating with other states. 3,392 foreigners from 96 countries from Turkey have been deported from this country. You see, we've shown how serious and right we are in the matter of Belgium.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0108par0080	Do you know how many ministers resigned after the incident in Belgium?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0106par0081	There, the leader of the opposition party, who lost an election in Germany, resigned themselves, and three parties in England resigned.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0108par0083	The ministers there are honorable, they know how to resign, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0106par0084	Don't make me talk, your general president here says...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0109par0085	Talk, talk.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0106par0086	Here it is: I'll resign if I don't get 26. Did he? He didn't, he's stopping. Before that, I will, of course, resign -- 35 bar holders -- if I don't get 35. Did he? He didn't.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0110par0087	How many people will you resign if you die, how many more people will you resign? How many people have to die before you can resign?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0106par0089	I mean, there's friends...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0111par0090	Congressmans, please show some respect for the speaker.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0106par0091	Look, if you don't talk to me, I'm gonna need your level...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0111par0093	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0106par0094	Look, we just had some level talk. I'm just passing on my thoughts here. If you don't say anything, you won't get an answer from me, but if you do, we won't get hurt, so come on, guys.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0112par0096	Mr. Secretary, how many people have to die before you can resign? Give me a number, how many people die, and you'll resign? How many more massacres will there be in Turkey?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0113par0097	How many more explosions will there be?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0106par0098	Now, that's not true. Friends, look, I'll give you another number: look, so far, friends, 4,734 people have been taken into custody, these are also registered in international organisations, and 1.772 are foreign. 1,416 people have been arrested, including 514. So, friends, 1,080 of these are only in 2016.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0114par0100	It was the inn, the inn that passed by Turkey, the inn that passed by!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0106par0101	We're running out of time, and I'll tell you one last thing: Mr. Vice President of the group, of course, God won't let that happen. I pray to God that I do not lose 11 elections and fall into the position of speaking for the nation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0114par0104	It's the inn, the inn on the way.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0115par0105	Thank you, Mr. Ala.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0116par0106	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0115par0107	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0116par0108	Mr. President, during the Minister's speech, he teased me on the last part, and I hold that right in confidence. But in the name of our group, if you don't mind, Istanbul MP Baris Y Friend will exercise his right to answer for his bullying against our group.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0115par0109	All right, here you go, Mr. Big Brother.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0117par0113	Mr. Secretary talked a lot as usual, but he didn't say anything, and I didn't expect him to say anything because he has nothing to say.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0118par0114	You don't understand anything, so what do I do?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0119par0115	A lot's been said, you don't understand.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0117par0116	Now the Minister will shut up, listen to Mehmet Emin Pencewini...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0120par0118	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0117par0119	...and you will learn together how the AKP has aided and abetted terrorism, how it has collaborated with the PKK. Look, what does the Iraqi say, Pencewini? He says: "I took the helicopter of MIT to Kandil.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0121par0121	Look at your friends, your friends!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0117par0122	I carried a PKK executive from there to Oslo, under the supervision of the MIT. We did so under the direction of Talabani, and Recep Erdoğan and Abdullah Gul watched all our talks from the camera. What does he say? The same helicopter later dropped the PKK members off. We would bring amnesty to all the PKK people, and we would take Ocalan to his house like Mandela; he said he would visit journalists, politicians, artists. The government of the Republic of Turkey would also pay 70 people of the PKK (PKK), which means that the Minister would pay the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and drive them around in helicopters to aid and abet the PKK (PKK). Are you almost done? It's not over. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] The government, which the Minister is a member of, says Emre Taner, and Emre Taner says to Mehmet Emin Pencewini: "If I can't solve this, I'll take the gun and go to the mountain with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0122par0125	Who the hell is he, Pencewini?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0123par0126	Says who, says who? Don't tell me they read it from here and there.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0117par0127	Here's the AKP. We've been waiting for answers to questions about terrorism today, and the Minister can't answer those questions. Why can't he? Because the October 10th massacre, the Ankara massacre, the Suruç massacre took place right in front of all of us, and Mr. Secretary is still trying to create legitimacy over a statement from Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many people have to die to get you to resign with honor? How many more massacres will you expect? How many mothers will cry in this country? Please, in your honor, resign and stop the bloodshed in this country.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0124par0131	How many elections will you lose to resign?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0117par0132	You can't sustain your power with that blood. Here are the words of Pencewini, here they are; so no one in the AKP has ever been able to deny it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0125par0133	Dear Yidfriend, your time of conversation is over.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0117par0134	You're in business with Ocalan, your partner and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), as simple as that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0126par0136	Who's Pencewini, Pencewini?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0127par0137	We're willing to fight terrorism, and it's our debt.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0128par0138	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, in his speech, the EC PARTY government has expressed co-operation with the terrorist organizations of the AK PARTY. It's a very heavy accusation, and I'd like to answer that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0129par0139	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0130par0141	No, it's the truth, it's the truth, it's not the accusation, it's the truth.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0131par0142	Who sat at the table, didn't the AKP sit down?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0132par0143	Now you'll see the truth! Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We've come to the stage of the vote on our Home Secretary. We considered it appropriate not to respond in order to prevent the polemic growth, but I believe the AK PARTI government has forced an answer to the lowness of claiming that it is walking the road with terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0133par0148	Boo!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0132par0149	I'll say it again to those who say, "Oh, my God."
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0133par0150	There he is, there's the bastard you've been! You're an asshole here! Look, it says here! It's written here!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0134par0152	Sit down!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0132par0153	...KAK PARTY is a scoundrel, a bastard who says that he's with terrorist organizations, and that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0135par0155	Dear fellow, please take your seat.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0132par0156	Dear friends, look...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit03spe0135par0157	I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0135par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0136par0002	Where's the Minister, Minister?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0135par0003	Mr. Special, to the system...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0136par0004	No minister, no Efkan Bey.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0135par0005	Mr. Special, you've entered the system.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0136par0006	Yes, I do, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0135par0007	What is your request?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0136par0008	Sir, just before the session was closed, Mr. Secretary made a mockery of my name and title. We spoke to you inside. You know, since the hearing is closed, the right to answer is controversial.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0135par0009	Yeah, 69/2.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0136par0010	At this point, I said I'd ask for my position.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0135par0011	I'll give you my word on your position for a minute. Please don't cause any more bullying. I won't extend the time. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0136par0015	Thank you, Mr. President, I won't be talking very long anyway. During his speech, Mr. Secretary based everything on a defence: "We will not be infected with mud." He also received applause from his group. I thought we'd get dirt on us, get mud on everyone. Mr. Secretary, I've been thinking about what it might be that the mud won't get into; the mud, I guess, can't just get into the mud. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0137par0019	I want a promise.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0138par0020	Here you go, Mr. Ala.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0137par0022	Indeed, clay does not cover the mud, nor does it touch the man.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0138par0024	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0139par0025	Mr. Secretary, you're covered in mud, mud!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0137par0026	You're not coming out of the mud!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0138par0030	Talks on whether or not to bring up the motion to ask about Minister of Interior Efkan Ala have been completed. Now, I'm going to vote on whether or not the motion to ask for a gene will be raised. All those in favor of bringing up the motion for the gene... those in favor of the motion... are inadmissible. Therefore, the motion for a gene question will not be raised.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0140par0033	Yes, Minister, hands up, you're cleared. God bless you!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0141par0034	Congrats, congrats! Let's get in line!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0140par0035	What does your conscience say, your conscience?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0142par0036	Don't let the mud get to anyone, guys, please... We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Mr. Secretary, members of lawmakers, I'm not taking a break, I'm continuing my studies. I'd like you to take your calls backstage, please. Congressmans, please take your seats. I'm not taking a break. I'm not taking a break, Mr. Lawmakers, please...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0143par0040	Mr. President, you are aware that no one is aware that you are not taking a break.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0144par0041	Mr. President, give them a break and let them go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0142par0042	We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. The Parliamentary Research Commission, which has been established to determine the measures that must be taken by investigating all cases of abuse against children, particularly sexual abuse, will be held. I'll have the political party groups read the list of candidates sent for their membership, and I'll put them to your votes. [[Noises]] Congressmans, the Court is processing, please. Congressmans... please don't make me raise my voice.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0145par0050	Scream, Mr. President, shout.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0146par0051	Look at you, sir, look at you!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0142par0052	You have the same thing, everyone has it, not anywhere.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0146par0053	Look at our band, like a lion, and look at this! Look at us, look at them!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0147par0054	Mr. President, look who's yelling.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0148par0055	Mr. President, you're right. That side doesn't listen anyway, you're right.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0149par0056	I'm reading: The Committee for Assembly Research on the Purpose of Identifying Measures That Needed Investigating Every Kind of Inflicted Events on Sexual Inflicts Against Children [[10/123), (10/124), (10/125),]] [[10/126]] [[9]] [[4]] [[1]] [[1]] I submit the reading list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, it is 15 p.m. Thursday (April 21st 2016) of the members elected to the Parliamentary Research Commission. I'd like to ask them to hold the election of president, vice president, spokesman and clerk, as commissions meet in the meeting room on Main Building 1st floor 404. The meeting of the commission will also be announced on plasma screens at the same time and day. Let's get this out in the open. We're back on the agenda. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. In the first place, we will begin negotiations with the Special Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report Against Autoprocession of Personal Data, where it is appropriate to approve the Protocol on the Protection of Individuals and Borderlined Data Stream. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 279 rows. The entire bill will be addressed to Tripoli MP Haluk Pekşen on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0150par0099	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I've had to take a stand on a heated parliamentary agenda again today. I'd like to share with you a story I hope you'll all be interested in. A poor Chinese peasant has only one horse, and that horse is the whole livelihood. The horse is the most important livelihood in his life. One day the horse disappeared. When the horse disappeared, her neighbors wanted to pay her condolences and condolences. He said, "This is what time brings, and you never know what it brings." As a matter of days later, he returned with a wild horse on his side. This time, the neighbors wanted to come to celebrate, so let's celebrate, what a nice, second horse you've got. Again the peasant refused, and this time, he said, "You never know what he will bring." As a matter of days later, the only boy riding that wild horse fell off his horse and broke his foot. Then the neighbors came to the village and said, "Get well soon." Again the peasant refused, and he said, "Time brings what it brings, and you never know what it brings." And a few days later, the country went to war, and the prisoners came to the village to gather soldiers. They couldn't recruit the peasant's kid because he had a broken foot. That's how the story goes on. But, I assure you, time is unpredictable, you never know what it brings or what it brings. [[Applause from CHP rows]] See, now, you see, we're talking about the international division of these personal data -- I warned you here last time -- you're going to start sharing these data, you have no chance to resist it, and then you're going to see that you're writing your end with your own hands, and you're going to see that you've been put in the way of what you've been calling the case of the past. You're getting ready. I congratulate you. This is the second step in leading you to the supreme judgment, you will go, you will go with your hands.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0151par0103	We'll see, we'll see!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0150par0104	How? Now, let's talk together. Now, these computers of yours, you know, you have computers in your rooms in Congress, so I suggest you put a big tape on those computers of yours. They watch you all from everywhere every day. You know how they watch? They're watching what you want, what you say, all of it. The first thing I did the day I came to the House was turn off the camera footage of that computer. That computer I've never used has been replaced for the fourth time, there's a fifth one in my room right now, and I'm not going to use it. You're all under those records, being recorded on your cell phones. Where? You see, there's a case in Reza Zarrab in the United States, and now, you're going to agree to share that recorded personal data with this law, and after that bill was passed, the personal data that was obtained from you in the archives will all be in accordance with the international agreement in the Reza Zarrab case. And as the prosecutor there today, the U.S. Attorney, has explained, Turkey will become a country of evidence in this trial. And trust me, those ministers of yours, the Victory Falls, the Sovereign Donation, who lay in front of me, the most colorful face of political history with his story, will all come with red notices from the United States of America, but not only to them, but to all the bureaucrats who are in league with them, to that Customs Undersecretary, to the Director of Customs. I'd like a big round of applause for that customs inspector at Ataturk Airport, who was a good man, a brave man, and told the world a truth, God bless him.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0152par0106	Teoman, Teoman.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0150par0107	But you'll all get a notice. Rest assured, the only way to stop the notification depends on what's in front of you. And we gradually began to understand what was to be put in front of you. I don't think you'll ever be able to resist what's going to be put in front of you, in any way. Soon you'll be in front of the public, as he just described here, you'll tell him a new story about terrorism, but I assure you, the public is fed up with these stories, and every part of society is now in irritated. Look, now, let me tell you a story about the Black Sea. Last year the nuts cost 20 liras, this year the nuts cost 7 liras. Black Sea perperian, you took away their forest, you took away their streams, and not enough, now, with a mining license, with 2,000 mining licenses, you perpering their land, but you let loan cards and loan shark banks fall upon them, and their children are either miserable from unemployment or miserable in foreign hands or beggars at hand-doors. So, what's going on, what's this Black Sea hostility, what's the reason? Either they're dying of terror -- cancer treatments you haven't done in the region -- the children of this Black Sea, or they're dying of the drama you've dragged them into. There's not a city in the Black Sea that has a population growing, thanks to you. Migration and poverty became the fate of the Black Sea. In the political history of this country, we also succeeded. Do you have a business you call a business, for God's sake? Look, the Black Sea produces the world's most important chocolate material; there's a nut production, and in a $120 billion industry, you don't have a single investment plan for the Black Sea that touches the mouth of a nut. No, because you had nothing to do with it. Either your children are there, in Singapore, in the slot machines, busy protecting and protecting them...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0153par0110	They're shutting it down.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0150par0111	Or you're too busy camouflaged for the Ensar Foundation to be such an insulent, public-ulsoring, truly embarrassing business. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, come, look, tourism is structured in this country. How is it structured? The state planned, the Treasury Undersecretary encouraged, Development Bank lent and Turkey became a tourism industry. The same was made in textiles; the government planned, the Treasury Undersecretary encouraged and Development Bank gave loans, became a textile brand. Why isn't Turkey in the chocolate industry? I'm asking, why? Another population of 3 billion people has been added to the Earth's population. There are 2,000 kinds of chocolates in China, but there are no nuts. This year -- only in 2015 -- in your time of power -- milk has become cheaper than water, but you've never been more than this when you import 150 million lira dairy products, and you've never blushed. The peasant pours out his milk, and on the other hand, he buys milk chocolates from Belgium, Holland, Germany, Italy. You send the nuts in those milk chocolates and the sugar from Turkey, where the added value comes to you. I'm asking, dear AK PARTY MPs: Tell me one sector, the only sector you've given this country. Tourism collapsed with you, age fruit vegetables collapsed with you, narc, transportation collapsed, construction collapsed, foreign trade collapsed. Yeah, give me one! Come on, say something! Come on, say something, we've upgraded this sector. Say it!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0154par0115	You're talking like a believer? Do you? Do you believe me?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0150par0116	Come on, say it! Is there? No. But unfortunately for you, the only measure is this: I got a vote from the chest. The crate teaches people so much that you look into political history, you know, the Republican People's Party you're talking about, look at the political history, what challenges have come to you, what there are, what there are, but they've all lost. Ask the children in the streets: do you know the names of those parties? They say they don't know their names, but they say: "There is Republic, there is Republican People's Party." We will always exist, the republic will always exist. This Republican People's Party will speak in such a straight line. Let's have a word...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0154par0118	The opposition is called the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0150par0119	Look, you didn't find anything, did you? Do you think? Do you have it or have you found it? Find one, find one. I think there is, and I think there's a job that you've found very well, that you've brought to this country, friends, that you're plotting incrediblely, and then you're denying it. When you came, you came with three Y's. You came with bans, corruption, and poverty. I think you added two more to it, you added a lie to corruption, and unfortunately... don't let me say the word behind it, you'll find it. I'll text those who can't find it. Congressmans, we actually know what AKP power is. We've put you in front of the public what you've said so far with your advocacy media. Look, I'll tell you again, the test question is in a week...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0155par0122	Who the hell are you to take tests?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0150par0123	Mr. AKP MPs, I'm telling your 316. 316 MPs, tell us which sector you've given to this country in 14 years.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0156par0124	I'll answer it, if you want.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0150par0125	If you can't, we won't put you in public. That's how you shut up and shut up.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0156par0126	Let me answer that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0150par0127	We'll continue to speak the truth. We salute with respect and love. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0157par0131	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Adana MP, Mr. Coral Beştaş will speak. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0158par0135	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, there's a lot to say about the Protocol on the Protection of Individuals and the Law on the Approvement of the Protocol of Bordered Data Stream -- very long, of course -- and the Further Investigative Offices and Bordering Data Stream Protocol, which I'm now promised, but there's been a lot of debates about the Protection of Personal Data. We, as the People's Democratic Party, have stated that this law is not the Protection of Personal Data Act, that this law has been brought before us in the EU integration process, but I will again and again talk about its violation of EU law and non-national agreements, although we strongly express it, with the ruling party's votes, unfortunately, the law on protecting personal data, not protecting personal data -- a tag law -- has passed law on the sole accession of everyone's personal data, and right now I'm going to talk about a law on ratifying protocol on this. So I know that all of these, unfortunately, have been doing legal work on their own policies, their own interests, their own way of looking at the above-national contracts in the process of adapting international contracts to internal law, even though they've taken small positive steps since 2002, and we've been witnessing for many years here, in practice, which, in fact, seem to be a little exception to the spirit of these contracts, but in practice, unfortunately, we've been witnessing for a long time the law that blocks the entire national contract and the Constitution. Many changes so far have been made in Turkey, legal changes, which are appreciated, in fact, possible by countless European Court of Human Rights decisions. The probation period has been reduced from thirty days to four days, the state security courts have been removed, and there have been many such amendments, but today, especially in recent years, we do this work in a time when the single contents of these changes have been emptied, without saying "darbe," where the coup has been carried out, where martial law practices have been carried out, without calling them "catchliam," where we face mass human deaths, let alone torture funerals. I'd like to draw your attention to another matter, the members of parliament, and Turkey's public opinion. So I'm not going to tell you anything more about personal data. Dear friends, you know, NG operations were one of the issues that was very controversial for a period of time, and unfortunately, when arrests, arrests, and judges were Kurds, when the Kurdish political movement became the Party of Democratic Territories, Peace and Democracy, the debate that was actually deserved was never held. In Turkey, no party, no institution, tens of thousands of members of any department have ever been arrested, tried, punished, but in general, discrimination, discrimination that exists in public life, in the judiciary, in the economy, in education, in every field, has shown itself very clearly in this judiciary and indiscriminateness. If I could play myself on April 14, 2009, there was no formula for that, unfortunately, as everyone appreciated, either listening or not listening, an operation had begun, and thousands of people working in the democratic political field of mayors, co-chairs, party council members, central executive board members, were then detained by morning operations. I'll tell you one thing: on April 14, 2009, when we went to the party, we were called as lawyers. They said: "There are detentions. There are 52 people taken into custody and those taken into custody were not even under medical examination. So we turned on the TV, and we said, let's see what we got. First hours of the day, six, seven more. It happened at four, five o'clock, and amazingly in some channels, I witnessed how accurate NG operations were, how accurate they were, how they were, why these operations were supposed to be done, what the background was, how columnists, journalists, big professors were doing analysis in the morning, and I've experienced it myself. And we've lived through how systematically this operation has been prepared before the operation button has been hit, what was planned ahead, what kind of operation is going to be done. Hundreds of folders were placed in front of us, but we weren't even allowed to open the lids of these hundreds of folders. I'm telling you for the TK main case, all of the other cases have been going on and on for years on this course. Of course, these cases are not simply known as the main case of ACK which is being carried out in Diyarbakir. At the time, the ruling party stood behind these operations, saying that these operations were supposed to take place -- parallel to other people's claims today -- then they expressed how well, well, well done with these operations, parallel to Kurdish political movement, democratic politics. Then, after their conflict with the congregation, he expressed that the congregation had done these operations, that they were a conspiracy, that the Deputy Prime Minister himself, ministers, at the Prime Minister level, at the presidential level, we heard these statements. But the discrepancy isn't just here, it's the main case right now -- if I can only talk about the main case -- the prosecutors are arrested, dear friends. The prosecutors of the main case have been arrested and are currently on trial for the construction of the congregation on Parallel charges. So, what was done in the main case? Their prosecutors have been arrested, but the indictments filed by those prosecutors are now being passed as the basis of the trial. So, what are these cases, what allegations? I assure you that these allegations... It was over 7,000 pages -- I remember it was 771 -- the indictment. It's not in this indictment, but it doesn't exist in this sense: I mean, all sorts of tragic, funny, I don't know, joke-like activities of a party, the activities of a association, the activities of a woman's movement, the activities of that indictment as evidence of crime, and it's been discussed. Let me give you just a few examples: since the mayor went to the city... The claim is one of the grounds for the transfer, went to a meeting at the city hall. The mayor is photographed entering the town hall, and the mayor is photographed entering the city hall. I'll give you a name, Yasar Yellow. At the time, he was the general manager of the DİSKI. We couldn't prevent him from being arrested for four years. Yaşar Sarı Τ's house was on the fourth floor of the Diyarbakır Bureau of Local Governments, if I'm not mistaken. I can tell the floor wrong. Every day Yasar Yellow was photographed. In the indictment, it says: "Yar Sar went to the Local Administration Office at this time, and left at this time. " Ya, Yasar Sarı also comes and says: "My house is there. I go home in an hour, then I leave in the morning. During the day, I go and eat, at noon, I leave. This is my house, so I'm going home. Until I told him and convinced him, Yasar Sarı was imprisoned for more than four years. The proof of his home, aside from the fact that it was presented there as a charge of arrest, is an example of the progress of the judiciary, of the fact that the law has shown its shame. Another claim is the "Hasankeyf Don't Be Under Water" campaign. Environmental movements, the environmental commission of the party and the environmental units of the DTK have made campaigns for Hasankeyf. And at international level, those interested in how large campaigns are being held on the national level regarding the protection of Hasankeyf. And I'd like to say again how Hasankeyf is a historical heritage, a place that must be seen by those who don't see it. But how did it get into the indictment? I'm saying in the indictment, they say that the PKK guerrillas used it as a crossing route, that those who did this act to keep it from being underwater committed crimes against the organization because they didn't want to cut this road. Now, it seems like it's all so funny, but with these allegations, the prisoners were arrested there for five years, and this trial is still going on. So why am I telling you this case? As of this case, as of this moment, a big game is being played, as part of a big project, this case is being carried out. So, what's the nature of this case? In this case, there are DTK co-chairs; among those on trial, there are eight of our fellow members -- the defendants -- who are the victims of this case. Again, among the victims of this case are Mardin Metropolitan Mayor, Diyarbakır Metropolitan Mayor Co-Chair, and others, Batman, many other municipalities' co-chairs, city council members, central executive board members, members of the party council. And the mind that arrested the prosecutors about this case, the mind that said, "Kumps has now appointed a new delegation, and this committee wants to hold a trial every day of the week. The rumor is -- it's not just a rumor, of course, based on data -- that in three months, by June, this case was ordered to be over. Our lawyer friends are trying the judge's rejection, the president's rejection, all kinds of legal procedures, but the court doesn't care about the law. In fact, the rumor is that the head of the court and its members often visit Ankara; we don't know who they visit anymore, how they receive instructions. These aren't rumors, dear friends. They're being tried at least two or three days a week now, and you know what they did after that? Gültan Kışanak was not a suspect in this case as Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality Co-Chair, the case was immediately merged with a special application and added to the case. Mr. Ahmet Türk has been reassembled to the TK main case. Sebahat Tuncel, as HDK Co-author, was immediately made a suspect in this case and is still under way. In other words, HDP, HDK, DTK, DBP, KJA and many other NGOs, democratic political areas and local governments are trying to be purged through this case. I suggest you don't think about anything that we're going through these days under that particular topic, as a person, as a congressman, as a friend. They're all connected right now to speed up this case, want to have a hearing every day, include the mayors of the city, bring in confidential witnesses, not even let them ask questions, or let the secret witnesses come in there and recite their prepared statements by heart -- there are very valuable lawyers here -- don't say it's a coincidence. We all know that between cases, especially if they're free and heavy, at least two months, three months. If a decision has been made to speed up a case, we would like to express that it is never, ever independent of instructions and other instructions and a special request. In fact, right now, only two or three examples of communication detection, and I'm telling you, so many people are being asked to be eliminated from the democratic area of politics by tragic allegations. We don't think about this apart from the immunity debate. We don't think of this as immune and independent from the arrests of 19 mayors, including 11 women who are still under arrest, eight men, and 36 city council members who are not independent of the arrests. Now, if all these arrests were at another party... the mayor of the ruling party has never been arrested as far as I know, the member of the Central Executive Board hasn't been arrested. In fact, at one time we had witnessed such a serious, pleasant conversation here, let's not interfere in politics, it shouldn't be. But when the problem is that the People's Democratic Party, the opposition, Kurds and the real democratic opposition to democratic forces of democracy, we continue to play three monkeys, and these operations -- I've specifically explained the KCK main case -- are not independent of operations against other civil society organisations, such as immunity, for other media organs, for women's organisations, for academics. At the moment, a quiet society in Turkey, a submissive society, a pledging society, wants to be created, but of course they won't be able to do it. We already know you can't do it, we know you're going to lose it, but while we're losing it, as politicians, we have a duty to protect the entire community from this chaos, from all this suffering. So right now, thanks to the ruling party MPs and the former President of the Constitutional Commission, they're very direct, they're really saying everything, and the boy is ours, and the girl is ours. It's already in their sexist souls, really, there's nothing from a woman's point of view. The other one says that all three of them are ours. He says, "Let's bring the presidential system so that we can separate the judiciary, the execution and the living." They're either making fools of all citizens of Turkey, 78 million people, or they don't know what they're saying, so the AK PARTY has no right to do such injustice to the ruling party's own constituent. Everyone has their own mind, every man has his own mind. There's probably an assessment, a calculation, but we're all being ridiculed, ridiculed, and expected to believe what's being said. So, really, the situation where he's on trial right now, let alone independence, neutrality, justice members -- all of them I praise, we have classmates, we have very valuable lawyers, we have people who actually try to do their job, but I don't think they've been under this much pressure at any time in their lives, because they didn't have to make that decision, if he didn't make it, he'd be banished, arrested, arrested, arrested, arrested, or something else would happen. Now there are instructions to silence, as a whole, the focus of social opposition, to investigate every word, the HDP, the DBP, the DTK, the KJA, the press organizations, the women's institutions. In the province where I was elected, I occasionally participate in press releases in Adana, unions, associations, NGOs. They started an application like this: Whoever opened his mouth, immediately two days later in Adana, an investigation paper goes away, and why did you say that? Why were you there? I witnessed it myself after the statement. Now, let's say there's a hundred people, 101. He's already looked at the identities of 100 people, and he's calling the 101st person, and he says, "We're going to look at a GBT. He takes the GBT, records its name and clearly threatens it, and says, "Don't come to these statements again, you'll be in trouble." So the ruling party invites violence at a time when illegality is so knee-deep, democratic responses are so limited, the law is so underfoot. He's responsible for illegality, illegality, and, in fact, illegality. I'm afraid that because he's not behind the law, trust in the law has been destroyed, it's only the ruling party and its practices that are responsible. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0159par0149	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş. Mersin MP Serdal Külcuoğlu will speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Wellercuoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0160par0154	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute you all. Yes, call in on account of the gene, we see our ministers here, it gives us happiness, that they're here. Dear lawmakers, when we enter Tourism Week these days there's an anxious wait in all the tourism sectors and related sectors, what's going to happen, how do we plan the future, how do we plan the future? Given the state of the sector and the expectations this year, the measures taken will not be enough to save the sector. According to information from the sector, last year's bookings have reached 50 per cent. Most sector employees where almost 1.5 million people are employed are in danger of becoming unemployed. Dear lawmakers, the question here is, how did the industry come to this? Why has the Turkish tourism sector, which brings $36 million in revenues with 36 million tourists after 100 billion in investments and 40 years of effort, become a country that many countries have warned not to go to their own citizens? There's only one reason, and that's his incompetence to run the country. Missteps in foreign policy have led to developments against our country in everything. What the tourist cares about in the first degree is safety and peace. Turkey lacks security, peace and law. Our trade and diplomatic relations with many countries have come to a halt. We weakened our democracy, destroyed the rule of law and freedom of the press, and with these practices, we became a laughing stock in the world. In our commercial relations, Russia, the head of the most important countries, has been cut off from us. In short, we destroyed the peace and security of our country with our incompetent government. Therefore, we are no longer the preferred country. We're back to the country that attracts tourists from the country. Dear friends, what comes at the very beginning of what needs to be done is to restore the image of our country that has been corrupted in the world. Together with their families, we need to make use of tourism facilities with state support for around 2.5 million public employees, which have reached 7.5 million. In terms of incentives to the tourism sector, our country should be divided into four regions, and more incentives should be applied to areas that receive less tourist and tourism revenues. Some regions need to develop policies to prevent the stockpiling of tourists from the same country, and tourism must be spread across the country. Instead of supporting the plane, support must be applied per passenger. Like tourists who fly in, tourists who come with croissants should be supported. The Tourism Master Plan must be reconsidered. Turkey should be supported by an increase percentage of tourists, not according to the number of tourists coming to Turkey. There must also be a solution to the debt of $4.3 billion that the tourism sector must pay this year. In this way, the tourism sector will be encouraged to free certain countries from addiction, spread tourism across the country and diversify. Although the science of Mersin is not affected by its appeal to domestic tourism, we have high expectations of the Mersin region, which has invested in foreign tourism and has been preparing for foreign tourism for years. We don't want our efforts to go to waste because of the government's wrong policies. (CHP) Tourism is publicity. It should be used to promote resource tourism, which is obtained here by increasing foreign travel fees. Dear lawmakers, the way to save the sector is more than this kind of support is to go to serious changes in our country's foreign and domestic policy, to maintain the superiority of democracy and law, to pave the way for human rights and freedoms, a safe and peaceful domestic peace. I hereby congratulate the tourist industry's Tourism Week, and salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0161par0163	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I'd like it to be passed on to...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0162par0166	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit04spe0161par0167	I'm going to put it in your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions, those who agree, those who don't, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit05spe0161par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision to vote on the amendments of the Law Bill 279 rows. Now, I'm going to re-offer the bill to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor of transferring to substances... those in denial... are accepted. I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0161par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 279 from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Dair Legislature and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 2nd place in the 2nd place, where we are eligible to join the Law, Knowance, Tenfiz and Co-operation Convention. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the draft law bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked third in line with the 3rd place, in accordance with the Convention on International Collections of Child Welfare and Other Family Welfare Types. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the International Adjective Co-operation Act and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 278 rows. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, this bill will be considered as the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after negotiations on the entire bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0163par0019	You're in the law? Our speakers aren't ready. No one told me. Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0161par0021	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0163par0022	Mr. President, there was an agreement between the groups on the agenda of the House.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0161par0023	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0163par0024	Three international agreements from international agreements were important. The groups on that topic were true to their promises, and today three international agreements would be discussed, and then the law would be passed.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0161par0025	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0163par0026	The reason is unknown, but I'm guessing that lawmakers from the ruling party seem to be involved in a problem in the continuation of Parliament, we paused immediately after the vote was passed on international agreements, and when we got back -- within our knowledge -- three international agreements were discussed, and they jumped and the Commission took their place. In this case, the groups have speakers according to international agreements, but for this law, the group speakers may now be in their room, perhaps in their office, perhaps elsewhere, perhaps at dinner. It's not polite to do something like this to the Republican People's Party Group -- and the other groups think the same -- without saying it, in the slightest words. It's not about your person, you're...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0161par0028	I was going to ask if it was about me.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0163par0029	No, no, there's absolutely no such thing. So you're looking at it, no commission, you're delaying it, there's nothing to do, you're running the agenda. But you know that compromises between the group's vice presidents are promises made by those parties' corporate identities, and the slightest setback in that regard embarrasses that group. In order to avoid such a thing, we had our speakers use ten minutes of twenty minutes of 20 minutes of 20 minutes of time, for example, to discuss a total of 20 minutes of international agreements, and three international agreements will pass, and you saw it. But now, once again, the law is passed, only the Minister, the Commission, the ruling party knows about this. How do we know? They're not surprised. How do we know? All the MPs are gone, no, no, they're somewhere, they know there's no vote. It's an injustice to our group, an abuse to our understanding of cooperation, our understanding of the country's general interests, and our will to pass international agreements, our understanding of this, our cooperation. We can't possibly accept that. In the presence of members of the group, sir, I would like to ask you to interrupt the merger to assess this matter quickly, and to discuss the situation with the members of the group's presidency.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0164par0032	Thank you. Mr. Turan, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0165par0034	Mr. President, we share the sentiment of the precious group vice president. However, in our previous meeting, we began to discuss the law in a meeting with CHP friends, for certain reasons, because of the insistence of another party, for sabotaging our work as usual; we discussed it before.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0166par0035	No, I'm not aware of that as my group vice president.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0164par0036	Congressmans, I'll listen, I'll decide.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0165par0037	Mr. President, in fact, when we got here, perhaps it was against the rules that we announced this to the entire House. I guess Mr. Ozgur wasn't there, so there's been a bit of trouble.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0166par0038	I was here when the hearing closed.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0165par0039	No problem, let's take a five-minute break, if you'd like, and let my Free Regent gather his friends, and let's move on.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0167par0040	Thank you, Mr. Turan. The information that was brought to me was that there was a compromise on the matter of the law. And in line with that, Mr. Special, as you put it, I've completed the procedure and passed the law, but of course it's the principle of all of us to work in harmony here, so it should be. So, I'll invite the group vice presidents to a meeting, and I'll take 15 minutes off. Mr. Erkan, do you want me to take a break after I listen to you, or do you want me to take a break now?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0168par0044	Sir, let me put it in one sentence as to how he entered the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0167par0045	That's why I'm asking.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0168par0046	Of course, there's a great benefit in taking a break.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0167par0047	Okay.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0168par0048	I mean, whatever deal we've come to, whatever plans we agree on, we have to go that way. However, after the meeting, perhaps we can establish a new attitude.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit06spe0167par0049	Okay. Then let's take a ten-minute break based on demands. I'd like to invite the members of the group to meet. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0167par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 278 from where we left off. Commission? Here. Government? Here. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, the first word on the entire bill belongs to Van Deputy Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan. Here you go, Mr. Ertan.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0169par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Today, I have made a promise here on the general draft of the International Co-operation Act on Criminal Matters. Turkey is a party to several international contracts and bilateral agreements on criminal co-operation. For effective implementation of these contracts and agreements, it is of course imperative that a framework of the principles here be brought together by law. Of course, it's very important to put together arrangements that have been disorganized in such a technical matter. This bill, which we're going to discuss today, in general, includes the general provisions of the contracts that we've already sided with, but of course, there are points that are missing. First of all, it must be the habit of the last few months, but we're up against a law that's being rushed again. As you know, we have an indexed working calendar for June because of the government's promise to work on visa exemption, and we are rapidly in this pace. As in the previous drafts, we had only three or five days to study this bill, and we did not have much time to study it, and there was no efficient discussion on matter, and without efficient debate, the ruling party thinks it suppresses the opposition. Although it has been noted by our side of the law that is more carefully prepared than any other law, there is, of course, a structure that raises our concerns about rights and freedoms, as it is not discussed enough, not enough opinions from its shareholders, and unobserved in public. I think we all have a point to bear in mind for all these laws. You may have received a period of time from the European Union by June, but the law will not expire in June. So we must prepare these laws for long periods of time. Therefore, the preparation of environments that each section can easily express its concerns should be one of the most important tasks of this Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I have already stated, although there is a technical and necessary law, there is no problem, I will try to pass on these problems to you as much as I can. First of all, the AKP, which came to power with its claim and promise of decentralisation, continues to be full-fledged towards centrifugalism. The effort to address state affairs from one centre has reached a point where the rule of rule of law is almost destroyed during this period of power. You've seen the law as you study it, and the Department of Justice, which has been established as a central authority, is heavily equipped with broad powers, and according to those powers, all judicial authorities are expected to comply with the decisions made by the Ministry. What, though, of the state-promoted conditions or the violation of a central authority guarantee? How do you expect an executive office to also bind the judiciary with the assurances or terms it accepts? In the 19th article of the bill, the fulfillment of the extradition decision has been made subject to the Prime Minister's decision. The restitution of the extradition decision, which was formerly under the authority of the Council of Ministers, relies on the principle of pluralism in democracy. As it contradicts the pluralism principle, the anxiety of making each decision by itself gives the impression of a government that does not trust its own cabinet. The Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister's final statement on the court's demands for judicial co-operation is in conflict with the rule of rule of law, one of the most important indicators of being a state of law. In order to prevent judicial action from interfering with the judiciary, the mandates given to ministers in the current bill must be reduced to minimal. In addition, in case of violation of the judicial co-operation and extradition decisions of these authorities, the way to appeal for control of decisions must be made clear in the relevant articles. Even if those living in Turkey know the way to appeal, this law with an international foot should also be a guide for non-Turkish citizens. Dear lawmakers, perhaps you've followed, today there was news of Reza Zarrab, from America again. According to these reports, Turkey was counted among the countries where the crime was committed for the first time in a renewed indictment against Reza Zarrab on March 30th. Although we knew and expressed it from the first day of Zarrab's arrest. According to the renewed indictment, Turkey is one of the places in which charges of conspiracy against the interests of the United States were committed against its co-operation, the international embargo against Iran, bank fraud and money laundering. In this case, since the crime was committed in Turkey, the relevant prosecutor had the right to investigate, file, and take his statement with whom and how Zarrab was involved in these crimes. When it comes to international forensic cooperation, we can't help but ask. When the United States of America asks Turkey to cooperate with Reza Zarrab's investigation, what will the government's response be? Will he cooperate to investigate these charges? Or will Turkey's national security, public order and other basic interests be violated, as it is included in Article 4 of the bill? Since national security in Turkey is now the AKP's security, public order is the AKP's order, and the December 17th-25th process is still in memory as it was yesterday, I am curious to know whether this law will be applied to Reza Zarrab in the future. Dear lawmakers, one of the things we focus on during the bill's Commission talks is that the bill does not provide equal protection for everyone due to the conservative concerns of the current government. As you know, in the laws that came before and affected human rights, we often stressed that all the bases of discrimination were listed and that sexual orientation and gender identity differences, which the AKP's government insists on not seeing, should also be protected. The 4th and 11th articles of the current bill state that if there is a risk of being punished for their race, ethnicity, religion, citizenship, menacing a certain social group or political views, their extradition demands will not be met. So we say that you add the sexual orientation and the gender identity because in a lot of countries, sex is a crime. In countries such as Iran, Russia, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Uzbekistan, India, there are laws in over 20 countries that are considered to be a common sex crime or to be expressed. Besides, there are a lot of people running away from these countries that I'm counting because they're gay and they're taking refuge in Turkey. As long as we don't add arrangements to this bill to protect them, we'll be the means for those in these countries to be punished for their sexual identity. When we expressed our concerns at the Commission meeting, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ expressed his responsibility as a conservative democratic party and his political attitude towards the public is very clear. You can't convince anyone that you're a Democrat, Mr. Secretary, as long as you take a stand that doesn't prioritize life rights and basic human rights. However, you consider Turkey to be 50 percent, but I would like to rephrase the fact that we have repeatedly reminded you that you are the Minister of 100 percent, and as long as you do not act like this, you will be abusing your mission. However, because his sexual orientation is different from yours, his right of life cannot be shown as an excuse not to protect those who are threatened. The criteria are neither right to live nor an excuse for other basic rights, nor an exception. Again, war crimes have not been included in Article 11 (2) as an exception to the rejection of the request for extradition. Just because we don't know the authority of the International Criminal Tribunal because we're not on the side of the Roman Status doesn't mean we can protect those who committed war crimes. It's a shame not to side with the Roman Status yet, but it's only a shame that we seem to be protecting the war crimes because we're not part of it. Therefore, in order to prevent and prevent the extradition of war criminals, war crimes must be made clear in addition to crimes against humanity. Dear lawmakers, it would be wrong to say that many of the provisions of this bill are in full harmony with the CMC, which is in line with the provisions of the Penal Code; some of it passes, some of it does not. For example, in CMK, the period of temporary arrest is 30 days, while the 14th article of the bill states that the period is 40 days max. When it comes to international forensic co-operation, it is unclear why the temporary arrest period has been increased by ten days. In addition, when a foreign person needs a lawyer and an interpreter, a verdict has not been added to the bill, despite our insistence. It is true that certain provisions of this bill will apply to CMK provisions, but I believe that the application must be made clear by foreign people and by interpreters and lawyers in order to become public in court. In addition, if we do not specify, the European Convention on Restitution of Criminals will be added to the European Convention No.3. We'll also be in conflict with the provisions of the lu Protocol. Given that we will approve this protocol that we signed on March 22nd, these points need to be reconsidered in order to comply with the CMK, as well as with our international obligations, and avoid further complications in the judicial authorities. Another thing I would like to point out about the bill is the 22nd article that regulates Turkey's extradition demands and conditions. The Ministry of Justice will not submit the extradition request to the foreign state if national security and international relations are likely to be damaged, the article says. We have difficulty understanding how Turkey's claim to extradite a criminal will damage national security. How can we give up on a matter that is under Turkey's jurisdiction, not by a judicial decision, but by the decision of the administration? It's called kidnapping criminals in front of the judiciary with the saving of political authority. There's no point in disabling judicial sovereignty when you're preaching when it comes to it. At the Commission meeting, it is stated by the Ministry of Justice that this verdict is an exceptional sentence and has not been brought into such a case so far. Why do we add this provision to the law, which can lead political authorities to rule the judiciary if the possibility of its fulfillment is so low? This matter cannot be explained. Dear lawmakers, as I mentioned in the first place, are in a hurry to legislate visa liberalisation talks with the European Union to meet the conditions of the visa liberalisation talks, preventing detailed examination of the bill through consultation with the relevant parties, and weakening Parliament's legal authority. Therefore, I would like to point out that as with any legislation that does not allow accession, we are opposed to the legalisation of the International Adminal Co-operation Act on Criminal Matters. My respects, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0170par0029	Thank you. İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0171par0033	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to draft the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 277. I salute you, esteemed members of the General Assembly. At the beginning of my speech, I wish that the Happy Birth Week, which we understand, was a good opportunity to remember the Prophet, and to understand his messages. I wish this week to contribute to the restoration of peace and disintegrating values that have been lost because of problems in our country, especially terrorism, and to the consolidation of love and devotion to the Prophet. I wish God's mercy to our faithful martyrs, to our veterans, to the immediate healing, and to the Turkish nation, who have fought against terror for the sake of our state, our country and our nation's unity and unity. On July 20th, I'm afraid 179 police officers, 267 soldiers, 10 guards, 19 civil servants, 475 of our children have been killed. At the same time, nearly 250 of our civilian citizens were killed by terrorist attacks, while the total number of wounded exceeded 1,500. On the one hand, I would like to point out that while our security forces are carrying out the brutal war on terrorism, we've been following with evidence on behalf of our nation the sneaky attempts to establish a new negotiating table and promote the fight against terrorism. The environments lined up to digest Turkishism and wipe out history, to destroy Turkey and the Turkish nation, have stopped fighting terrorism, offering to renegotiate. Turkey's return to Syria and Balkanisation are requested to be carried out. Global forces are in place for Turkey's division, for human and soil-based disintegration. It has to be known that a new betrayal to promote the fight against terrorism will only escalate separatist terror, increase the tears of the mothers, and cause the bones of our martyrs to weep. Those who will give up the fight against terrorism and start such a process before the separatist terror is eradicated will never forgive the Turkish nation. The rocket launchers fired from the ISIS-controlled region of Syria yesterday hit the church, killing 4 Syrian citizens and injured 6 others. Six people have been killed and 26 others have been injured by missiles that have already been hit by Syria on homeland soil. The missiles launched from the Syrian side continue to bleed our borders, the Church and its surroundings. Our borders and districts, particularly Kilis, are on edge, and our border security is under threat. I call upon the government to take immediate measures to ensure the peace and security of our citizens living in border districts and districts. Dear lawmakers, we see that the legislation recently brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has come to the attention of the European Union as a result of visa exemptions and so on, rather than as a service. This results in both the principles of the legal state and the technique of lawmaking, which is what we're discussing. The International Bill of Adjective Co-operation in Criminal Matters, although its contents previously existed in our internal law with bilateral agreements and some of the laws, is a code-decoding arrangement, including specific issues and some concepts that will enter our law for the first time. Developments in today's world also provide a suitable environment for organised crime. In the beginning, dangers such as terrorism, financial crimes and the spread of weapons of mass destruction pose a serious threat to national security. As a result of these developments, crime is also globalizing. Therefore, fighting organised crime bordering on states is of great importance. In particular, the country where cyber attacks on financial institutions and banks have been launched is different from the country where the people who have done this act are different. The country is different from the country where the person who acts and acts in cyber attacks on countries' websites in order to access the information of the state. With millions of citizens living abroad, the importance of international cooperation in this area has become more evident for our country. As a matter of fact, our election statement as the National Movement Party states that structural and legal obstacles in front of the access to justice of our citizens abroad will be lifted by weighting international co-operation opportunities. Co-operation between countries is essential for the capture of crime and criminals in the fight against such problems. Of course, no country on earth should have a place of refuge for criminals, and it must be seen as an inevitable obligation for all countries to cooperate in the fight against crime, especially in the fight against terrorism. Otherwise, if the explosion in Ankara is less cursed than in Paris, if the death of people in the Middle East is seen to be less trivial and ordinary than those in Europe, if normal and non-responsive, an internationally effective collaboration against terrorism would not be possible. Dear lawmakers, states must first harmonise international agreements and national law laws with constitutional regulations in the international judicial union and make appropriate regulations in the internal law. It is important to bring the perpetrator back to the country where the criminal committed the crime, to complete the trial process or to carry out the execution of the sentence. In our country, international cooperation is inevitable in the capture and trial of those who have committed crimes and fled abroad or who have committed crimes abroad. In this framework, Turkey has also signed several bilateral and multilateral agreements with other countries in the field of international judicial co-operation. The absence of a special legal arrangement in the field of international judicial cooperation may cause difficulties in the implementation and may lead to the lack of effective use of this establishment. Our legislation, such as the age of the bill and the age of the investigation or prosecution and the return-to-refund process, includes international judicial cooperation that has not previously been implemented. The bill is seen as an arrangement aimed at preventing agreements with other countries in the international field of judicial co-operation, which have been signed according to the conditions of time, from causing differences in implementing them. So far, bilateral and multilateral agreements have been held. It also raises the question of how it is possible to combine certain issues, even though one of the purposes of the bill is harmonisation of the provisions set in accordance with the conditions of time. As part of the judicial co-operation between the states, extradition of criminals, prosecution, investigation and the transfer of the prisoner is discussed under a single legal arrangement. Since international agreements on each of these issues are available, it is important to establish the compliance of the amendments referred to in the bill. Otherwise, there may be a consequence of the lack of legal value if the bill of law, which has been adopted under the provisions of Article 90 of the Constitution, has been adopted. Another issue is the determination of the Ministry of Justice as the central authority, which constitutes the main element of the bill. It is considered to be an arrangement that can help things move quickly, but the mandate and responsibility given because the decisions to be made are also related to foreign policy, security, politics, social and economic issues, is to exceed a ministry. The draft law stipulates a request and conditions for the extradition of a person in a foreign country to Turkey. It has been stated that the judicial authorities may request the extradition of those present in the foreign country for investigation or prosecution or for the execution of a conviction verdict. Other than that, a person's extradition to Turkey will be applied for for a crime committed in our country. It would be appropriate to clarify the contradiction between the principle and the matter in order to prevent any hesitations that might be created in the application, and to address the matter in the manner stated in the case. As part of the decision on the takeover of the act, the prisoner must be found in Turkey for the execution of the verdict issued by the foreign state. On the other hand, the provision of the bill, titled the transfer of the act, is conditioned on the condition that the prisoner in the state, which is to be handed over to the foreign state for the execution of the sentence, be a citizen of this state or have strong social ties with this state. However, the European Convention on the International Value of Criminal Rights stipulates that the prisoner should reside in the other state as a rule for the age of execution. These articles in the bill appear to be incompatible with the international contract, compared to the fact that it is not as light or as heavy as being a citizen of a country to be found in a country. Again, it is conditioned that Turkey has not been investigated or prosecuted for the same crime, in order for the decision to be executed by the foreign state in Turkey. In contrast, there is no such requirement in Article 28 (Islamic) titled the transfer of the bill in terms of the decision to be executed by the foreign state (Islamic State) in Turkey. It should be noted that the European Convention on the International Value of Criminal Judicials has adopted the fact that the relevant action has been carried out in the state in which it is asked to carry out the execution as a grounds of rejection of the demand for execution. With that respect, the wager should be conditioned that the Article 28 of the bill in accordance with the international contract should not be investigated or prosecuted in the foreign state, which will be executed for the same crime. In accordance with the bill, the state has been given the mandate to demand the transfer of the execution, even if it is embezzled. In other words, it is evident that all relevant substances are spoken of by the lawmaker, but it would be helpful to avoid hesitations that could be born at the next stage of the decision. Dear lawmakers, the 30th article of the bill, which regulates the transfer to Turkey, is that the prisoner is a Turkish citizen or has strong social ties with Turkey, which is considered a condition for the transfer of a convicted person to Turkey. Similarly, it is considered a condition for the transfer of a convicted person to a foreign state in Turkey to be a citizen of the state in which the prisoner will be transferred or to have strong social ties with this state. In contrast, the transfer of a prisoner in the European Convention of the Prisoners to Nakline Dair can only be carried out if it is the nationality of the state that carries out the sentence. With that respect, the finding of strong social ties in the bill will not be considered in line with the international contract. It has been stated that a transfer or transfer could be demanded by the state after the prisoner was stated in the European Convention on Nakline Dair that the prisoner would want to be transferred. Therefore, it would be appropriate for the bill to be made clear about the demands. In the draft law, it is also not right to be left to sub-regulations rather than to have the fundamental issues clearly regulated in the law. On the other hand, if a general or special pardon is granted in the state or in Turkey, or if a cause for crime or mitigating punishment is found, the place where the prisoner is found on the legal status of the prisoner will be decided by the court of the criminal court. According to the decree, the extradition of those convicted in the foreign state may be demanded to Turkey, under this clause, a new reason and a new situation may be reduced or eliminated. In this way, the bill is also assessed by being ill-advised by people who are on Turkey's agenda and who are out of the country due to money laundering and corruption. Dear lawmakers, the concern here is whether the purpose of this law is an attempt to exculpate punishment or execution. Since bilateral agreements are kept in the first article, what will the provision for the extradition of criminals and mutual aid agreements in criminal matters bring? If a binding solution between the two countries is expressed in legal aid demands, which legislation will be valid in connection with the initial prosecution, will mediate institutions in international criminal law provide a binding solution? With this bill, for example, is it possible for separatists, terrorists, to return to our country? Is it possible to prevent the separatist terrorist organization from nesting and receiving support in some countries? Is it possible to be questioned by those who betray our country and our nation and lay their hands on the right of an orphan? Will this bill be able to address the problems facing them? Is it possible to prevent the recklessness of Europe, which shamelessly asks the PKK to use proportional force in its reports April 14, 2016, when terrorists kill our children while live bombs are being detonated in our cities, visiting and patting the PKK in its capitals? In view of the entire bill, there is unfortunately no additional mechanism that can be seen to prevent separatists from nesting in these countries by the extradition of the terrorist organization militants in other countries. On the contrary, because of the situation for the benefit of the individual, it is a right for criminals to remain in areas of advantage. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this bill is rushed under the process of dialogue on visa liberalisation between our country and the European Union, as part of a special legal arrangement on criminal matters that are part of our country's responsibilities in the road map of visa liberalisation. Therefore, hesitations will arise between the content of the law and bilateral agreements, causing some difficulties in implementation. As I finish my speech, I wish the bill of law to be good, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0172par0058	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Eskişehir MP Cemal Okan Yüksel will speak. Here you are, Mr. Ascendant.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0173par0062	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all this evening. Unfortunately, the International Bill of Adjective Co-operation in Criminal Matters was quickly passed without adequate work in the Justice Commission and the subcommittee. Ladies and gentlemen of the group, I swear to God, turn around and look. Now, I'm counting 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, at least listen to what we're saying, because we're going to do what we want as opposition. So there must also be an epiphany of your respect for the national will that you have here with the 8-9 MPs of AKP (AKP), the owner of 317 MPs.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0174par0066	We're four parties, four.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0173par0067	Changes based on the conjunctural phenomenon are evident in the content of the proposals and proposals submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in recent years, as well as in the context of the conjunctural phenomenon. Now, the law in your presence is one of the drafts and drafts that were rushed at the European Union's visa exemption point. It's really admirable that such an important law can be passed through the Commission in three days with dozens of international contracts and a matter of such importance already drawn up. So the rule of law, in the sense that the government is one, is so important that passing laws that bring our country's perspective in the international arena would undermine the rule of law. This created phenomenon creates results that are incompatible with the rule of law, which have increasingly undermined confidence in the judiciary and Parliament. One of the conditions envisioned for visa liberalisation of the European Union, as stated in the draft law bill, was an inclusion on criminal issues regarding international judicial co-operation. As a result of the technical work on the bill -- this is a very important -- the first form of legal arrangement, the first to be sent to the Bar Association, was over 200 articles, friends. We thought we'd do some work before we came to the Justice Commission from the bill sent to the professions. Bill one for the Justice Commission, 38 points. What about those 170-somethings? Did he eat a cow, fled to the mountain, burned to ashes? So what is the purpose of kidnapping 170 articles of the original 200 from Parliament's will? I'll tell you. Although the 7th amendment of the Constitution clearly states by whom it will be used by -- this Parliament -- the AKP, unfortunately, is handing over these 170 articles to the Ministry to be regulated through regulations, through the transfer of authority from parliament. In many decisions, the Constitutional Court shall refer to the principle of regulation with the Constitutional Court on the basis of the 2nd Article of the Constitution, which stipulates that its legal authority belongs to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and cannot be passed on its authority, on the basis of the 2nd Article of the Constitution, and on the basis of the rule of law. The power to punish, a reflection of the kingdom, is limited to the sovereign domain of the state, and, of course, it is not possible for another state to use that authority in another sovereign state's country. This law, which is actually 200 articles, but is brought to Parliament as 38 articles and is expected to be regulated by the Justice Department, is about whether or not a state can prosecute in our country. Now, the reason for this bill, as stated, means visa liberalisation of the European Union, which means that the Schengen application will cover our country with this legal arrangement. What does that mean? By abdicating part of the sovereignty powers of the states that are a party to the agreement, the entity allows another state to pursue cross-border and hot surveillance under certain conditions in that state's own country. Such important issues are also subject to a separate oasis, where they can be smuggled from the Justice Commission and from the Turkish Grand National Assembly and organised by the Ministry of Justice. Apart from the separate conditions envisioned in the Constitution, it is not allowed to establish a general rule of law in an unconstitutional area, but recently, a deputy of yours has come out, and we have the law, and we have the administration, and we have the judgment. He has made a confession. In this law, we will see a very concrete example of that confession. Now, the European Convention on Mutual Legal Aid in Criminal Affairs, which we are part of, in short, CİKAAS, is not in the bill for the sending of evidence, files and documents. Therefore, when a document is requested under the request for legal aid, the evidence is thought to be denied, due to the lack of regulation in our private legislation. In addition, the temporary transfer and immunity of the prisoner and the principle of responsibility are not in the bill again, in order for witnesses and experts in CİKAAS to testify, witness and experts to appear before the judicial authorities of the foreign state in person, as witnesses or to be confronted. The European Convention on Restitution of Criminals does not include the speciality principle in SIDAS. However, there is one important thing in the bill: Article 2 of the bill is defined as the Ministry of Justice's central office, and in many articles, this central office, the Ministry of Justice, is given very important powers and tasks. However, it is evident that these duties and powers are contrary to the principle of dissolution of powers, which results in the position of the Ministry of Justice, a political authority, above the judicial authorities, given the fact that there are executive provisions that require position over the judicial authorities, such as the third Article (4). I'm going to read this article, the same one, says that the Central Office -- the Ministry of Justice -- can accept or give the required assurances of state-promoted conditions. Centrally accepted terms or guarantees are bound by legal authorities. • So, the Minister of Justice is positioned above the judiciary in a position that instructs the judiciary. Well, that's against the principle of separation of powers. Of course, while it may seem natural for governments to authorise the executive body in certain operations because they are anxious to maintain sovereignty in their relations with other states, this should not require direct interference in the field of justice. Although the administration's judgment is clear against all actions and procedures, although the savings of the Ministry of Justice may be thought to have judicial control, ultimately, it seems difficult to bring to justice an international correspondence activity that few people know about. Against the negative decisions of a minister who is the head of the HSYK, it's also a conjunctural possibility that members of the HSYK are opposed. In the second joke of Article 138 of our Constitution, no body, authority, and person can give orders and instructions to the courts and judges in the use of judicial authority; it cannot send them into the generalty; it cannot offer advice and advice. Therefore, it is clear that the commitment of the central office, the Ministry of Justice, on behalf of the judicial authority, and linking it to the judicial authority would be a violation of the Constitution's Article 138. It is not right that Article 11 of the bill is not shown as a reason not to return the sexual identity in Article (1). Now, in our laws, co-sexuality is not a crime, but in most countries, it is a crime that requires the same sex execution. If sexual preference requires persecution, abuse, or execution in the returned country, it must be in the bill that you should not be extradited. Again, the fact that war crimes are not considered a political crime puts our country at risk internationally in the long run. Article 22 is granted a broad and abstract appreciation for refusing to grant extradition to the central office, the Ministry of Justice. As my predecessors have said, in fact, in this first instance, it is believed that the request for judicial cooperation regarding the famous Reza Zarhrab could be prevented from giving information or documents to the other state if the Minister of Justice is not available to them. The same is the case in the era of the execution. Under Article 30 of the bill, the release of a prisoner transfer to Turkey in a manner of abstract authority to the Ministry of Justice is an initiative that clearly restricts the rights of Turkish citizens who want to spend their execution on the land. In this framework, basic principles are to be laid down with the International Co-operation Act on Criminal Matters, to draw the framework, not to be left in the direction of governance of an unlimited, uncertain area. However, when the bill is examined within the framework of international contracts in which we are part of this area, some of the main issues in international contracts are found to be unorganised in the bill. As I have just explained, there is an arrangement in the 35th article of the bill, titled "direction," which is actually reduced to 200 articles, but has been reduced to 38 articles, which will allow the Ministry of Justice to regulate the remaining 170 articles with regulations. So in fact, there's a lot more to be said, but I see that these technical issues don't interest members of the AKP. So, let's talk about something that might interest them a little bit. Now, we've seen in the last weeks that most AKP oratories are trying to show the Republican People's Party in the same parallel as the HDP, or, as we call it, the terrorist organization PKK. Guys, we don't have parallels. You know, your old partner, your current parallel, looks up to the congregation, you look up to the terrorist organization, you look up to the PKK, you look up to ISIS. Now, I'm thinking, what have we done or what haven't we done, and you're trying to create that kind of perception? I've looked into it, and I wonder who's close to PKK, whose eye is the eye of the PKK. I did it recently, Mr. Bostanci was angry with me. You tell me what's good for you. I'll tell you what's good for me again. President Erdoğan said: "I sent his friend who met with the PKK, and if anyone has a problem with it, let him tell me." Deputy Prime Minister Yalçin Akdoğan said: "Ecalan has the ability to read and experience of reading events, he is the new actor of the region." Now, it's true, maybe our people don't know, but you really didn't stop them from being crimes. And now, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister says, "Let's remove these immunitys, judge the HDP people." You can't judge, you can't judge. You know why? You did not actually make them a crime with Law 6551. You accepted the Law 10/7/2014 to strengthen the End of Terror and Social Integration and ruled out propaganda by the terrorist organization as a crime. Here's a six-point rule. Even if the immunity of HDP MPs is lifted, you will not be able to prosecute them for your own laws. I looked over the immunity files of HDP MPs; 80% of them are propaganda for the terrorist organization. So, unfortunately, with Act 6551 that you've taken out, you won't be able to reach your goal, as Mr. Arinc said, as Mr. Ocalan will, since you've ruled out opening the PKK flag as a crime. Now, what have we done? You are the one sitting in Oslo with the PKK; you are the one sitting on your knees in Dolmabahçe with HDP; you are the one welcoming Salih Müslim with the red carpets. You're criticizing him for going to the funeral of the terrorist organization's bomber. I'll tell you the date.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0175par0089	Oh, it's up to you to defend!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0173par0090	Didn't Galip Ensarioglu go to the condolence tent of a terrorist named Sherzat Diyarbaz? His alibi wasn't a PYD terrorist organization at the time. You're the one who greeted terrorists with drums. You're the one who led the judges to the terrorist's foot. You are the one who has not allowed governorships, even though the glorious armed forces of this country have gathered terrorists here, preparing bombs here, and have asked for permission from governors 290 times in preparation for action. Now, who is the supporter of the PKK? In 2002, when you arrived, were there terrors? So, Mr. Home Secretary said in his speech: "When we arrived, there was a state of emergency, who says there was no terror when we arrived? There was no terror. There was no news of any martyrs who died. You know, there were martyrs in 2002, but if you were hiding them from us, I don't know. But you're the one who said, "We're not going to make you president when it suits you." You're the one who put the solution process in the refrigerator, the night that 16 of our 16 soldiers were martyrs in Dağlıca, some of the martyred fathers' characters are corrupt. Now tell us: are we the supporters of the PKK, or are you? I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0176par0093	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0177par0094	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0176par0095	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0177par0096	Mr. Orator expressed that during his speech, we were standing in a parallel place with CHP and...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0176par0097	You're claiming. He said to the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0177par0098	From the stand, of course, when he put up that position, there was a taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0176par0099	Let's ask him to make a statement.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0177par0100	At the same time, he claimed that our political activities were actually propaganda for the terrorist organization, but were no longer a crime by AKP's laws. There's an open taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0178par0101	There's no teasing.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0176par0102	Now, if that's the case, of course there is, but I've listened very carefully to the part of the speaker in this last episode where you say these parts. He didn't have any contact with your group here, the HDP. Only he did this analysis on the PKK.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0177par0103	No, Mr. President. What does that have to do with anything? Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) have no complaints here. I've studied all of those cases, and you've ruled out acts of terror organization propaganda as a criminal element.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0176par0104	Okay, here you go. Two minutes. Let's not argue, if that's how you see it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0179par0109	Thank you. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, of course, if the MP of a party claiming to be a social Democrat comes in here and presents the political work that goes into the definition of freedom of expression, freedom of organization as propaganda for a terrorist organization, there's probably not much to discuss the state of the CHP, but we'd like to remind you of a little bit of the close memory. So, first, you're joined by AKP's war policies and the concept of coup. Do you remember, after June 7th, when someone wasn't going to be able to get into the community yet, you ran and threw a lifeline? I'll call the talks of Deniz Baykal. I'll tell you what, after all that, the regime change over immunity, where did you all add up? Your position is extremely clear. So, whenever the AKP has been stuck so far, the CHP has made all the moves that have saved AKP through a state-run, status-coccusing reflex, it is clear, it is clear. For this reason, especially after the June 7th elections, you were given briefings from the Undersecretary of MIT to the officers of the General Staff. Therefore, you are not parallel with the AKP (AKP) in the process of dissolution, which would mean a regime change, which would mean a regime change, both during the AKP coup process and now through immunity. From our point of view, the painting is very clear, but we care more about the will and posture of millions who voted for you than for you. All those people voted that you would not condemn Turkey to a dictatorship so that you would not be part of the war policies so that you would oppose the coup. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We'll do what you don't do, out of respect for them.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0180par0116	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0181par0117	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0180par0118	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0181par0119	During his speech, Mr. Group Vice President, with four or five different arguments, he described the Republican People's Party as an arm in arms with the Justice and Development Party, as well as the future talks -- with an inappropriate definition -- as I should not use the same word here -- and again, when the Justice and Development Party is stuck, the CHP has described it as an insult to our party as well as to the political criticism. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to exercise my right to answer.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0180par0120	Here you go, two minutes, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0181par0123	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Deputy President of the People's Democratic Party, accuses the Republican People's Party of adding to AKP's policies and legitimizing coup policies; rather than being a criticism, they insult the Republican People's Party. But when we add a party to a party, we say how they describe themselves as a social democrat, a left party -- how they describe themselves as a party, perhaps when they came to the podium -- we saw them themselves, with the Justice and Development Party, as they told us to, but during the peace process, the solution process, during what they called it, the AKP's journey events, when your MP was there on the first night, with messages from your party, we took our young people out of there, I think, with the political page of your party, and in the history of your party. (CHP clapping in rows) You've got to see this. Besides, whenever the AKP is stuck with it, you say to go arm in arm with it... so that God can break it. The Republican People's Party demonstrates opposition to the rights of the Republic of Turkey and the honorable people who live in this country, in an economic sense, socially, about domestic security, about foreign policy. We all remember that when you were engaged in a deal, but you were promised it, and one of the deals that you promised them, except for the roof of this House stood back, you stood against the AKP, but when you were together, you stood still beyond being in arms and arms, and we see that you stood still. Thank you very much. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0182par0127	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0183par0128	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0184par0129	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0182par0130	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0184par0131	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, through the resolving process, we are co-operating with the AKP (AKP) and with information that has been completely distorted about the travel process...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0182par0132	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0184par0135	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0185par0136	Mr. President, tell us about these briefings, so we'll know.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0184par0137	You know what the difference is between us guys? We stand by all the work we've done in the process of solving, and we say it with pride and honor. Since the AKP was in power at the time, we were dealing with the AKP, and if there was another government that had entered into the process of resolving it, we would have run that process with them, and we did the most valuable job in the history of Turkey's politics. If we've saved one life for two and a half years on the basis of those works, there's nothing more valuable, more honorable, but can you stand up for what you've done? Do you have access to the process of this war, of the jointation of the coup process, of future talks?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0186par0138	Where did the solution process come from, Mayor?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0184par0139	Can you now bring in confirmation of the regime change and claim the secret talks that Deniz Baykal had with Recep Tayyip Erdogan? That's the difference between us. On the other hand, from the beginning of the travel process to the end, our party was the active, motor, dynamic power of the travel process, and the active, dynamic mass in the taxi was already HDP. On the first day, remember, from the sensitivity of our MP there to the last day, HDP was behind all the demands for greater democracy, governance and ecological sensitivity, expansion of freedoms that reflect the true spirit of Gezip. But when some nationalist and nationalist circles -- including the HDP offices -- started attacking HDP offices everywhere, they wanted to address the issue with a civil war dimension, a Turkish-Kurdish war dimension. Of course, we have condemned the understanding that appeared and did not conform to the spirit of the Travel Resistance, and we continue to condemn him today. I wish you were as supportive of your work as we are. We are prepared to share all the information about the process of solutions, whatever information they may be interested in. Let's start today, and we'll take part in that process today.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0187par0143	Thank you. You're not gonna talk... okay.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0188par0145	We'll talk, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0189par0146	No, if you promise, Mr. Cemal...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0187par0147	No, I don't know, what's his request?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0189par0148	Oh, okay.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0187par0149	I don't know what his request is, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0189par0150	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President has accused our party of preparing to support a regime change that could happen in the coming days during his speech again, and I'd like to answer that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0187par0151	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0189par0153	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, we need to clarify this whole trip thing. Travel events began with the attack of the Istanbul Metropolitan Police Department when it was intended to cut down trees in the Travel Park, where the barracks were intended to be built, when it was set up in tents of young people, activists and those who owned nature. It is true that in the beginning, one or two of your deputies were there and you were represented there institutionally. But then we saw your co-Chair's blow on the plane, and we pulled our masses, our deputies out of there. We remember very clearly what he said. But the freedom of the Kurdish youth from your institutional stance does not change the fact that the People's Democratic Party had been removed by order of the Prime Minister of the period who saw the trip as a coup, let's say this once. In addition, we, the Republican People's Party, as the Republican People's Party, in the process of losing power alone on June 7th, have tried in a way that, from the very first night, the 17-25 December process, which has emerged with four ministers, to account for their pensions, their labourers, their tradesmen, his civil servants, our economic policies, which we have been pleased with and that we have tried to get the 3 opposition parties -- somehow -- to form a government, and in particular, to take a little bit of a breath by the AKP government for every 13 years, to account for the greatest corruption process in history. But the Republican People's Party is behind all his negotiations. As a result of those talks with the AKP, we have not come to a strategic or coalition partnership, but to do politics at different times. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0190par0158	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0191par0159	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0190par0160	Mr. Yüksel, I'll listen to you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0192par0161	Mr. President, this could go on until morning.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0193par0162	If it lasts, that's what it takes. Are you going to lead? There's the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0190par0163	Mr. Bostanci, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0192par0164	But that's not how it works.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0190par0165	If you'll excuse me, I'll listen to Mr. Yüksel.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0194par0166	Sir, if Mr. Bostanci is going to obstruct our rights in the Civil Code, please do so.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0192par0167	I'm not blocking anything.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0190par0168	Mr. Yüksel, tell me your request, please.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0195par0169	We do not speak from the Bosnian's point of view.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0196par0170	Sir, I've said some things I didn't say.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0190par0171	What are they?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0196par0172	He described our political activities as terrorism propaganda.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0190par0173	So you want to make a statement?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0196par0174	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0190par0175	Then I'll just be a minute...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0196par0176	No, because of the bullying, sir, he was bullied there...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0190par0177	Look, you're going to explain, I didn't say that, I said that. You're going to say that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0196par0178	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0190par0179	I'll give you a minute of your position, and I'll invite you and your group's deputy presidents to the agenda regarding Article 66. We're not talking about travel events or parties' attitudes related to it. I don't intend to promise anyone about this. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0196par0183	Yes, Mr. President, the Vice President of the group of HDP has attributed to my side what I did not say by saying that I described the activities of a political team as terrorism propaganda. However, I did not mention Law 6551, which is referred to as "Ocalan" to the baby killer, or I did not refer to their political propaganda as "terror propaganda," but if he wants to say "politicism under the PKK flag" or "call the baby killer," we are now at the end of the talk. A terrorist should be called a terrorist, a baby killer should be called a baby killer. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0190par0185	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0197par0186	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0190par0187	Yes, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0197par0188	So both Mr. Special and the Congressman have been picking on him again in his speech.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0190par0189	What was said? Mr. Baluken, look, we've been given reciprocal conversations, the right to comment, the right to answer, and I've given you all an equal voice to those who demand it, but you can appreciate that we need to stop this at some point.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0197par0191	No, we don't have that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0190par0192	Article 66, the principle of commitment to the agenda, I must invite you all to the agenda, please.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0197par0193	Mr. President, don't tease...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0190par0194	With all due respect, I promise you two minutes, and I would like to ask you, please, to stop this discussion here. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0197par0199	Thank you. Mr. President, now Mr. Special knows very well that from the beginning of the travel process, the HDP has been there behind all demands expressed by the active dynamic mass of the Travel process and has been in the process of travel.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0198par0201	You were all active then.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0197par0202	When a bridge began to be built from Gezi to lice, when law enforcement forces ordered by the AKP to slaughter young people in lice, you must have followed the attacks on HDP offices after that period, right? And I'm sorry to say that if you look at the flags in that mass that attacked the HDP offices, you know exactly what we meant at the time. So, when some centers take action to remove the matter from the Travel spirit and draw it in a different direction -- a civil war dimension, a Turkish-Kurdish war dimension -- to bring down the bridge between Gezi and lice -- of course, the HDP demonstrates the necessary attitude in that sense, and warns the active dynamic component of the Travel. In that sense, we think that all that happened during that period was very clear, that the context of the Travel was being torn from the context by another concept, which included your party. Now, as for this matter of the baby killer, Congressman, you should have read the history of the fundamental issues in Turkey, particularly the Kurdish issue. We know those who say "baby killer" and "baby killer" and "baby killer" with bayonets to keep the bullets from being spent while slaughtering babies in my class. In this land, who kills babies, who... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We know very well that you've brought a hundred years of issues here, no doubt about it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0199par0208	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0200par0209	Mr. President, during his speech, Mr. Baluken accused the party of assaulting HDP offices by members of the party directly. I have to take this.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0199par0210	Mr. Free Special, I promise you one last time, and then I'll use my right to 69/2, and I'll tell you that. Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0200par0212	Mr. President, that's another argument.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0201par0213	You can take a break, so if there's any bullying, we'll respond. We'll answer.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0199par0214	I know what I have to do.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0202par0215	But Mr. Naci told you what to do.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0199par0216	Do we really have to get through this with some kind of actual intervention, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0203par0217	Okay, you do it, and we'll use our civil rights.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0199par0218	Do I have to do an actual intervention? I'll apply 69/2.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0204par0220	Mr. President, you should have given that answer to Mr. Naci.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0199par0221	I'm going to apply 69/2. Go ahead, Mr. Free Special. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0205par0225	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, your earlier statements may be a subject of a very separate discussion, perhaps a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0199par0227	Go ahead, do what you want.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0205par0228	It is my freedom to be the last speaker, to be unable to respond to what I say, so that as a spokesman for a party that believes in democracy, I will not exercise this unlawful and non-democratic right that you know. So if I make a tease, I also feel that the right to answer must be used.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0206par0230	The Civil Code regulates the law of bullying.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0205par0231	Let's make it very clear that a moment ago, we'd like to ask the party's esteemed deputy leader, who mentioned a meeting with the name of our former President, which party Mr. Celal Doğan is doing politics at, and how they're responding to the President's similar invitation, if they consider it a matter of discipline, what processes they're conducting in this regard. In addition, you were unable to make it clear that at Gezi, Mr. President Kadıköy had cancelled the rally, and had been in the square with all his presence, that your presidents, your co-chairs, were seeing a coup at the time. But there was one thing that we saw: in Istanbul, there were TOMAbooks from Diyarbakır. What kind of assurance must the People's Democratic Party have given that all the TOMAESTs in Diyarbakir have been spraying and spraying on our young children in Salam Square, believing that there would be no need in Diyarbakır? We present the matter to the attention of the High Council, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0207par0235	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0208par0236	Mr. President, there's an open taunt again.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0209par0237	Mr. President, just for the record. You've just said I won't make any promises to the deputy presidents of the group. Basically, there's no commitment to group presidents; there's a consulting fight, there's a show, if you want two groups of vice presidents to raise a ball, pass a ball and name it. Just for the record.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0208par0238	How can you not pass this? So, Mr. President, the harshest political reviews are being made.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0210par0239	Now, I've made all my explanations, and I'm going to apply 69/2 on this. I'm listening to you now.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0208par0241	During his speech, Mr. Special also said that Peoples' Democratic Party had given guarantees to the AKP (AKP) and that the TOMAESTs in Diyarbakır have been brought to Istanbul for this reason. I mean, it's open teasing. We don't have that kind of security.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0210par0242	Okay, open teasing, so I'm going to promise you, on the condition that you stay in the same session, according to 69/2.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0208par0243	Meral Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0210par0244	Not now, Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0208par0245	How? Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0210par0246	In the same session, I'll appreciate your time. I'll promise, but I'll appreciate your time. I told you, if you read it clearly, it gives you discretion over time.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0208par0247	There's no such situation, but you can't apply it to your liking.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0210par0248	No, but there's no such thing, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0208par0249	So in this Parliament, sitting there...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0210par0250	There's no such event, but Mr. Baluken, this one's new.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0208par0251	But now, there's the Civil Code, the Constitution, and the following Parliamentary regulations. You can't change Parliament's rules there for your own pleasure.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0210par0252	I'm not acting on my own, I'm acting on 69/2. Just a moment ago, when you were sitting, you said to give me a break.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0208par0253	Yeah, you can do that, that's something else.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit07spe0210par0254	Is it necessary for me to perform an actual intervention? I'm going to make a legal statement. But since I can't be understood, I'm doing an actual intervention. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0210par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 278 from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. On the whole bill, the first word on the person's behalf belongs to Mr. Veysi Source, the deputy of Kahramanmarash. Here you go, Mr. Source.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0211par0011	Mr. President, very dear MPs, when I begin my words, I salute the High Council. Today, I wish our two soldiers, who were killed in the explosion of the mine planted by the terrorist organization Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), to the four wounded soldiers, to the four of them, to the four of them who were injured. At the same time, in Başika, Iraq, after the attack on our tank by the DAEŞ terrorist group, our heroic soldiers have eliminated 32 DAEŞ members. I wish success to our soldiers, to our police, to our security forces, to Başika, to Turkey, wherever they serve in the world. Dear President, today, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly, we are negotiating on the International Bill of Judicial Co-operation on Criminal Matters. When this bill is adopted, the problems and problems of the lack of normative regulation of judicial implementation will be overcome, and the procedures of the courts in which they may sometimes make mistakes in international judicial aid will be avoided. As it is known, the main objective of criminal cooperation in criminal matters is to prevent the perpetrator of a crime in one country from escaping or fleeing from a foreign country from the execution of a criminal investigation or the execution of the sentence. Because in a foreign country, the continuation of criminal prosecution shows that their actions to the perpetrators will not go unrequited, and thus contribute substantially to preventing crime and guilt. There are certainly some burdens today that scientific progress has caused our world and humanity as well as its blessings. One of these burdens is that crime and guilt are no longer limited or, in other words, that it can spread beyond the realm of sovereignty of a state. In this scope, it is especially important to be aware of organised crime that is bordering. Many measures, which are sufficient in terms of individual crimes, are not sufficient in terms of these limited crime. The effort of criminal organisations and perpetrators with different opinions such as economic, political, military, or terrorism to be one step ahead of the law enforcement forces of governments fighting crime and to continue to practice their verbs in this way brings the interstate judicial union in the fight against guilt to an inevitable point. In this context, the framework of international judicial cooperation is growing and developing. This co-operation sometimes takes place in a narrow frame of international reference format in the form of a hearing of the defendant, expert witness or witness; at other times, the extradition, investigation or prosecution can be passed, recognition of foreign sentences and executions, sending evidence or allowing secret investigation measures to be used. Mr. President, highly valued lawmakers, it is directly relevant to the rights of state sovereignty that can be carried out in the form of judicial aid. Therefore, it can only be achieved within the framework of international agreements or the principle of reciprocity, which is generally accepted in international law. So far, international judicial co-operation in our country is based on bilateral or multilateral agreements with various countries, but on the other hand, on the basis of disorganized provisions in our internal law, some of which are found in different laws. In fact, there was no regulation that we could clearly say was the legal basis for legal aid in terms of our internal law. Because there was no legal norm at the level of law except Article 18 of Turkish Penal Code 5237, which included only a few specific principles in return. With this bill being discussed in your presence, it is possible that we can safely say that this deficiency has been repaired. In accordance with the law, we often see legal regulations that show what kind of court or authority will follow in cases of judicial aid on criminal matters. In countries such as Germany, Austria, France, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Romania, there are special laws on this legal aid. After the legislation of this bill, there has been debate as to which one will be given the upper hand if bilateral or multilateral agreement provisions conflict with an internal norm that regulates an international judicial co-operation. Similar concerns were expressed by various lawmakers during the bill's top and lower commission talks, as it should be remembered. The issue is covered by inter-national agreements on Turkey's constitutional co-operation and other law provisions, which are included in the article (3) of the first article of the bill. A clear solution has been brought to this subject. This decree also reflects on this bill the principle of priority of international agreements, which is included in the final joke of the 90th article of our Constitution. This principle applies both in terms of bilateral and multilateral agreements, and in no way does it matter whether the agreement wins before or after the law. Highly valued lawmakers, as we all know, there's bound to be mistakes and shortcomings where human beings are. Of course, that is also true of the normative arrangements prepared. With the changing and developing human and social structure, law needs new regulations and changes, it is considered without objection. When we look at the bill discussed through this window, it can easily be said that the bill covers the areas in which it organises the areas that are needed and meets relative legal regulations in this area. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I would like to make a brief mention of the establishments at this point, which have, for the first time, found a legal basis in our law rather than a classic arrangement. The first is the legal aid of video and voice communication in the 9th article of our bill. It is also possible to use visual and audio transmission technologies that can be used in internal law on Articles 58 and 196 of the Penal Code No. 5271 in international judicial aid. This arrangement will enable the trial to accelerate, and the right to be judged within a reasonable period of reasonable human rights in terms of the accused. At the same time, the obligation for the minimum cost of public cases and for the most rapid consideration will be met. Another important and new institution is the institution of temporary arrest. In the process before a foreign state delivers its extradition request, the temporary constraint of the freedom of the individual is subject to strong suspicion that a extradition charge may be carried out again by a prerequisite of a state. Let's just say that the temporary arrest is a completely different measure than the arrest carried out in Article 100 of the Penal Code, as well as in terms and status. Again, one of the innovations in this bill is a voluntary return to our internal law as a new institution. Merkurr depends largely on the will and demand of the returnee. At the same time, our last new establishment is the transfer and takeover of investigation or prosecution to foreign states. It's one of the things I care about the bill. Investigations that were useless to continue in Turkey because of this institution...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0212par0030	Mr. Source, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0211par0031	I wish our bill would bring blessings. I congratulate our Justice Department and its bureaucracy, its colleagues, who have been involved in the bill. I wish you a good evening.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0213par0035	Thank you, Mr. Source.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0214par0036	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0213par0037	On behalf of himself, the other speaker...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0215par0038	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0214par0039	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0213par0040	Sorry, I didn't see it. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0214par0042	I just wanted to make sure he's on the record for one thing.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0213par0043	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0214par0046	Now, Mr. President, we've been dealing with a government practice that has long ignored the will of Parliament, respect of the will of the people, and has never responded to demands from here in any way. Despite a cabinet minister's request to come and inform us of the gang attacks on the Kilis border over the past week, we and the main opposition party, no minister has been deigned to come here and inform the MPs, General Kurula and Turkey. And right now, those attacks on the edge of the church are going on the same way. We don't have any information, so the more we read about it in the press, the more we know about it. Now, we've gone through this; what is to be done about a bill that is being discussed here -- almost routine -- even though the minister is here at this time, representing the government? What is the government's intention? It is a right from lawmakers who want to use the right to be informed in the form of information. However, the 81st Article of the Civil Charter of the Civil Code organises regulations concerning the discussion of legislation and proposals to the General Assembly. There are definitions of both political parties, political party groups, both the commission and the government's times of speech in the Civil Charter 81. Now, in the face of such a situation, we're wondering why the Minister of Justice does not inform the General Assembly on a matter of international judicial cooperation in criminal matters, why does he withhold information from lawmakers in a way that may satisfy any hesitations that may exist? So, Mr. Secretary, either he doesn't agree with this law proposal, he can't stand behind it, there are things he can't explain, or even though there's a situation where he can explain, he doesn't respect the work of lawmakers who are here over the government approach I just mentioned. I mean, we're expressing this as an unacceptable situation. We understand the AKP Group, and because they want to quickly use it as a law factory, they don't have any opinions about any law as a group, he is now in the routine.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0216par0048	That's our business.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0214par0049	I mean, since the ruling party that runs Turkey has no idea of the laws that come to parliament, the General Assembly...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0216par0051	That's our business.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0217par0052	How the hell do you know? Look at you!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0214par0053	...he doesn't speak for the group, but the government has a different situation. Since the government is the government of all Turkey, it has a responsibility for the general Assembly, including all opposition parties, that's how, in a very comfortable way, I don't inform the General Assembly. We don't think it's possible.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0218par0054	Thank you. There's no such thing as a need to talk, there's a question-and-answer. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0219par0056	No, he will, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0220par0057	I have a request to speak, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0218par0058	I didn't say he didn't, he might not, so he doesn't have to, but if he doesn't, it's beyond the question-answer part. However, Mr. Secretary has requested a statement.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0220par0059	Not even though I have a request before.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0218par0060	No, no, it's not connected to him. Mr. Free Private has just requested a word.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0221par0061	As lawmakers, we don't know what the bill brings.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0222par0062	If the Minister is going to make his speech...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0218par0063	Mr. Secretary, do you want to speak from the stand? You had a request for a word, you raised your hand.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0223par0064	No, I'll talk, I'll speak for the government.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0218par0065	Oh, okay, okay, so I'm supposed to...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0224par0066	He'll talk, he'll talk from the stand.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0225par0067	Sir, it's the government's turn to speak now.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0224par0068	It's Mr. Secretary's turn to speak.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0226par0069	No, it's not on my list, so I asked. Now that I've moved on to the second person, I've had to call the second speaker because I haven't received that kind of information. But when Mr. Baluken raised his hand, Mr. Secretary had already raised his hand to speak, and I promised Mr. Baluken before I had no information. Okay?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0227par0070	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0226par0071	I suppose you'll be talking about it, too, or I'll make a promise to the Minister.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0227par0072	Yeah, yeah, about that, a lot more.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0228par0073	I have a request to speak, so if you'll excuse me, I'll speak.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0226par0074	I promise you, he's demanding, he's on his feet, I promise you, Mr. Secretary. Please be a little understanding. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0229par0077	Mr. President, now, in fact, the situation is much better understood. That's why we need a separation of forces. This is the administration, this is the living, but unfortunately, a sense of governance that doesn't treat the separation of forces with respect turns from time to time into the laws and regulations of living, of running the law from time to time.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0230par0078	That's why we want to move on to the presidential system. You mean the separation of forces.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0229par0079	Now, if we interrupt the session, Mr. President, if he asks for the minutes, you'll see that Mr. President has made a statement in favor of the individuals, and then Mr. Namik has started calling from the text in front of him to invite Havutça. Mr. Baluken did it just then, when he was supposed to make the appeal, which is why I asked for a simultaneous statement because it's the fast passing of the law, which is a fundamental law. Actually, we can't discuss this as the basic law. We've explained our views on that over and over again. The basic law needs to be enforced in a much more comprehensive way. So, according to the Civil Code, the basic law of 30-36 is not true, but the goal of making the basic law is not to exercise the rights of groups on matter, but only to do the motion.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0231par0080	Mr. Special, can you wrap it up, please?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0229par0081	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, this is very important.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0231par0082	I did, I did, and I'm just making a request.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0232par0083	How long, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0231par0084	Congressmans, I'm speaking to the deputy chief of the group, please.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0233par0085	Then let's have a discussion. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0231par0086	Yes, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0233par0087	Mr. President, there's a procedure that started last week. The AKP Group doesn't speak for the group themselves so they can pass the law quickly -- I think it's their own appreciation, it's not true, but it's their own -- but they don't make the ministers talk either. We saw a few bad examples of this last week. And I just went to the bench, and I asked if the Minister had a request to speak, and I found out he didn't. I understand that the Justice and Development Party also imposed that practice on Mr. Bekir Bozdağ last week. I ask you, does the minister have a request to speak on the stand? They say he did not apply, he will not speak. We're still waiting. The time for Mr. Minister's speech is between our friend from the ruling party group speaking in favor and us speaking against him.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0234par0088	Yeah, right now.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0233par0089	Mr. Minister's decision not to request a speech but to invite Mr. Namik Havutça to the stand -- which is present in the transcripts -- is our objection at the time, and to make a commitment to Mr. Baluken Another thing that confirms this is that you, Mr. Minister, don't have to talk to us, don't ask us, answer the question-and-answer. You said, "Mr. Secretary then showed his notes." We, for one, think that this wrong done last week will correct the Minister's attitude immediately. However, Mr. Minister has been promised to Namik Havutça because he has not applied, and even though it is necessary to complete a process that has begun, we think it is necessary for a minister to inform the Assembly on a bill, not to do so would be fundamentally opposed to our logic of quality legislation and disrespect by that minister. So, I think you're... it's clear that the Minister's request isn't delivered to the stand because of a number of shortcomings, or that it's being transmitted, but it's being tried to be ignored. Ask the Minister again, Mr. Secretary, let him do it, but never again the ruling party...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0235par0090	You're giving orders to the Minister?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0233par0091	...and do not allow the military to attempt a coup against the right to be informed directly about the law by Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0236par0093	Congressmans, I have to tell you what happened from this stand. Now we've come to talk to the individuals. Of course, on behalf of two individuals...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0237par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0236par0096	I'm sorry, let me make this statement, and I'll make you a promise. I know the minister needs to speak between the two individuals. However, by now there would have been information that there was a demand, and we would have put it here on our list. So there's been a miscommunication. Such a request -- not in text -- didn't come here, but in this text. But before I can tell you who the second person is...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0238par0098	It had started.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0236par0099	I didn't say anything. Without saying it, Mr. Secretary said I wanted a promise.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0238par0101	We'll take care of him from the report, we haven't seen much of him.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0236par0102	I heard it. Guys, I'm telling you from my point of view. Mr. Baluken stood up at the same time. Since there's a lack of communication here, I thought Mr. Secretary was going to make a statement. I said to the minister, "Let's make a promise to Baluken, and then we'll get back to you." After Mr. Baluken has spoken, the Minister says again I will make a statement. He says that I will always speak from here. I will speak from the stand. Mr. Baluken says that Mr. Baluken is speaking. I've heard all that. Now, I don't think it's right to interpret this aspect of the job without knowing whether it's a lack of people or institutions or a lack of bureaucratic arrangements; at least that's my personal, personal opinion. There's been a miscommunication, which is something that always happens and happens. But the Minister said, "I want a promise in my place and in my time." I made a promise to Mr. Baluken, instead of Mr. Secretary. I repeat, Mr. Secretary, I thought he was going to make a statement from his place, because he doesn't have a name there. As Mr. Bauken spoke, Mr. Secretary said I would always speak from the bench. I want you to know that. I will now promise Mr. Akçay, then I will call you to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0239par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to sum up my thoughts on this matter in a few words. The 62nd and 81st provisions of the Civil Code include regulations for the government's speech, and the government's speeches in the General Assembly are extremely important. We're currently negotiating an important bill or a proposal for a law -- about this proposal or bill -- let's say the ruling party may not speak, or even a opposition party may not, but never should the government not speak. I think that's because the government's talks in the General Assembly will also show the practitioners the way and direction. Especially the first thing that appraisers look at is the law as well as its speech and soul, its legal grounds... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last sentence...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0240par0112	Let's give it another minute, Mr. Akçay, and wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0239par0113	First he looks at the law, then his motive, and then a better influence on the purpose, his spirit, based on what the Turkish Grand National Assembly commission and the General Assembly say. Therefore, the government must speak. And we see that the government is very reluctant to inform, even though there are very important events. Let's say Mr. Minister of National Defence is meeting at the Church, or Mr. Prime Minister or interested ministers are able to speak to propaganda as far as they can in some advocacy. However, the fact that they're informing the Turkish Grand National Assembly on those important events and issues is of greater interest to us as well as to clear up the confusion of the citizens and to inform lawmakers in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I think the government must, surely, speak up in the bill and proposals of the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0240par0115	Thank you. Mr. Bekir Bozdağ will speak on behalf of the government. Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry we didn't do you any favors, but I'm afraid you've had some criticism. You have fulfilled your request on time, Mr. Secretary, for the record.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0241par0121	He doesn't have a name on the system. You say, "We've done wrong." So that's it!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0240par0122	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You've got 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0242par0125	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I stand before you on behalf of the International Bill of Adminal Co-operation in Criminal Matters. I salute you all. We're all negotiating a very important bill today. I'd especially like to express how much I appreciate the willingness of our political parties to listen to our government. Dear lawmakers, the International Bill of Adminal Co-operation on Criminal Matters is the first time the International Co-operation Act has organized a very important area with the quality of a separate law. So far, Turkey has been conducting international judicial aid on criminal issues based on bilateral agreements or multilateral agreements, and some of the regulations and so forth were considered by the Ministry of Justice, but so far, we had no law establishing this area as a potential, and for the first time, you would adopt the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal matters. What brings it? The bottom line is, this bill brings nothing new. All of the substances in this law are essentially legal and enforced at the moment. Where do we say it's legal? From here on out, they're all international treaties. As you know, according to the 90th article of our Constitution, all international agreements -- except for some exceptions -- are discussed and voted and carried out in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. All contracts on judicial co-operation have been discussed, legalized, and implemented in this Parliament. So, what do we do now? We're putting together some of the issues that are common in all of this within a separate law. The practitioners are having a big problem; in what way, where is it? They'll open contracts, open other arrangements, follow them; there's trouble. Besides, forensic aid isn't always on the agenda. Perhaps a judge, perhaps another member of the judicial office, will not meet or meet at all during his term. And when that happens, it's because it doesn't have the legislation, so there's been some setbacks, problems. With this law, he will have a separate text at his disposal, and he will have a great opportunity to resolve the matter more quickly and to make the practice of judicial assistance more accurate. Now, I'd like to talk about some of the things that are said here. The draft of this bill was about 200 articles, that's right. We've got him in sight, and that's true. So, what happened, did they fly? He didn't fly. Because when you look at the article (3) of the first article of the bill, we arrange for international contract provisions and special laws to be kept. What is it? They're in the contracts, they're the law, they're already being enforced; that's number one. Why did we cut it down? Second, we put some of these together. Four, five points, in a substance. Thirdly, this law will not only be applied in legal aid on countries with international judicial co-operation with Turkey, it will be applied to countries with no judicial co-operation agreements with us. And when We shall record them all in it, and We shall grant them means of subsistence which they do not know. Therefore, we put together the minimum rules, which are essential for this job, and we referred the others to contracts, and we hid them, which will be applied between the two countries, if it is multilateral, but the general rule of this law concerning countries that are not contractual with Turkey will be applied, if there is any agreement between that country and Turkey, or if there is any other co-operation between them will be acted on that framework. In fact, this is a reflection of Turkey's sovereignty over this issue. It's not kidnapping, it's not hiding, it's not hiding; it's all business right in front of us. Second: there are applications for international judicial aid, especially for extradition of criminals. Now, some countries say that when the court decides, I will return it. Some say, "This is not the court's business, this is a political issue. When the government decides, I will do what is necessary." Some countries say, "This has a legal dimension and a political dimension. Let the court examine whether it can be extradited or not. Let the court make a decision. Let it be appreciated by the political authority when the government decides it can be returned." If you want to know why, we need to stay on top of it. We're setting up a central office here. What is the need for central authority? For one thing, the establishment of a central office is the basis for the clauses of some international contracts that Turkey is on the side with. It says there: "Every country will establish a central office." Once, it is the commitment of Turkey. Two: There's already this central office, it's been applied in some way, but since it's not defined in any law, it's as if it doesn't exist. Why is there a central office? The reason is that courts don't know how any country looks at Turkey's legal aid demands. A file came before him, and he examined the file, that the crime was not a political crime or a military crime, or other substances, and he ruled that it was a returnable crime, and he said, "Refundable." But Turkey also has extradition requests from that country, and there are many requests for extradition of other crimes related to terrorism, but that country does not comply with Turkey's extradition demands. We say give us this. He gives us a lot of excuses, he makes a lot of rules of his own, even though he has a bilateral or multilateral agreement with Turkey on international judicial aid. Then what will Turkey do? It will apply the principle of reciprocity, and even if the court has made such a decision, we will have the right to a political appreciation here, as the central authority for the country that has not implemented the terms of the contract against us. This is very necessary for our country's interests, and very necessary for protecting the law of our citizens, and very necessary for the national security and public order of our country, and extremely essential for the right to sovereignty, and there is a central office in all countries. It's almost like there's no country that runs them without central authority. I'd like to say again from here that there is an authority for that kind of appreciation in all of the European Council member states at the moment. Of course, the other thing is that the central authorities will use judicial authority. The Central Court can accept or provide the required assurance of state-promoted conditions, except for the issues that are under judicial authority. Let's say we ask Germany for help, we ask for forensic wiretaps, the Germans say: "You will take it, you will study it, you will destroy it, or you will give it back. I'm asking you for assurances of that. When we don't give them that guarantee, Turkey doesn't give them the documents, the central authority deals with them. Then the central authorities can guarantee it, and when they give it to us, we can return it to them on what they say. The court doesn't know about this, and the court won't know about this because the correspondence is based on the central office. There's a procedure for interstate correspondence, and it's in that order; it's certainly not an intervention in the judiciary, it's not an order to give judgment, it's an order. The point of this is to take and implement Turkey's legal aid policy in accordance with the interests of the state and Turkish nation of the Republic of Turkey, in accordance with the treatment of Turkey. I find it useful to underline that once again. The other thing is, we've had friends here talking about a temporary arrest. There are temporary arrests, arrests up to 40 days, and criticisms have been made here. Once in our law, in Turkish law, in the current law, there is no such thing as temporary arrest. Where's the temporary arrest coming from? Turkey is responsible for international contracts, which are favoured by Turkey. There are rules for temporary arrest in the contracts we side with. One of these contracts, for example, has been the agreement imposed by Turkey since 1957 by all European Council countries, since 1959. It says: "A temporary arrest cannot be less than 18 days; it cannot be more than 40 days. " It can't be more than forty days, it can't be less than eighteen days. A country is demanding a temporary arrest on the subject of any legal aid request from Turkey. In this case, Turkey is making temporary arrests, and after 40 days of correspondence with that country, etcetera, the process is completed, the extradition of that person is at stake. Well, it's been thirty days, can Turkey keep it on its own for 40 days? It can hold for 40 days. So, every 30 days, our justices can assess their imprisonment or their severe sentences, wherever they are being tried? He might consider it. He may not wait 40 days, he may leave after 30 days, but there are deals we're on. We signed, and at the request of a country, I'll keep the person I've decided to arrest for forty days. We will act according to that commitment, it is a separate matter; otherwise it is a matter of reviewing one detention in Turkey's internal law every 30 days. I'd like to say once again that it's a good thing not to mix it up. Of course, it is expressed that non-lawyer parts will be regulated by regulations, by generalities. For better implementation of this law, of course, there can be regulation, which is written in the Constitution, which is in the law. In the Constitution, it is neither shameful nor sinful to perform an act in the law, nor is it wrong. The regulations and regulations can, of course, be issued for the proper implementation of the law. Besides, we have no way of running a forensic aid system against international contracts. Why? Because Turkey's judicial aid policy is closely followed by Turkey's central office, and if other countries are closely monitoring its approach, other countries are closely monitoring how Turkey responds to its demand for judicial assistance. When we don't apply those contracts, they treat our demands the same way. So here, it's the law, but on the other hand, international contracts, like the law, are part of our internal law. According to these, this will be the practice, and regulations will provide a guiding quality for these practices to be healthier. Otherwise, none of us will think or carry out any ill will to take the legislature's authority and carry it out under regulations, and it's never possible to accept such a thing. In addition, the Council of Ministers used to decide that. • Is it true that the Council of Ministers decides, but do all ministers in the Council of Ministers share the same knowledge of the extradition decision on this matter? It's not. After all, the Department of Justice has a suggestion there again. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is receiving opinions, information from the Ministry of Interior, all of the relevant organisations are being collected, and according to it, it comes to the Council of Ministers. Meeting in the Council of Ministers also prolongs the process. What do we do now? Now the State Department, the Ministry of Interior, if there are other areas involved, will be processed after their opinion has been taken, with the Minister of Justice's proposal and the Prime Minister's approval. Could there be something missing from the Council of Ministers? Who is the President of the Council of Ministers? Prime Minister. If we kidnap the Prime Minister, then you'll say: "You're missing from the Council of Ministers." No, with the Prime Minister's approval, and the concerned ministers are following this issue and bringing it to the Prime Minister's approval. I'd like to express here in particular that it's very important that things don't linger, that they're done sooner. Dear MPs, of course, I was going to say at the beginning of my speech, but I didn't say that in case my arguments were removed, and if you'll excuse me now, I'd like to point out a few things before me about what the members of the group have expressed: it's not a obligation for the government to sit here and inform while sitting; it's open to the Civil Code, and we've been acting as group president, and the government will give information when it wants. And not because the government was too afraid to give information, not because it was afraid to give information, but because it was unable to give information, so that perhaps time would not be lost in the disputes of that day. I mean, there's been a lot of altercations over there for minutes, and who gets what? Did we win anything? No. Has Parliament won anything? No. Did the voters win anything? No. Did people win anything? No. Yeah, well, no one gets anything out of word racing. We're racing. I mean, we all have enough memories to blame each other. We can't take this Parliament any further with this interruption. I'd like to point out to him that at these points, the government may at times have discretion, that he should also be respected. Besides, I asked for a speech -- the president expressed it too -- but I didn't send it in writing, I requested a cure, and if they had listened to me, my request would have come. Of course, I'm always talking about living and walking, so I say, let's move on to the presidential system. (AK PARTY) The system of legislation, which is completely separate and fully independent of one another is called the presidential system.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0243par0141	Way to go! Now, that's applauding.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0244par0142	It's obvious that's all you're trying to do. That's all you're trying to do.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0242par0143	Right now in Turkey, look, there's no separation of forces in the system. Why not?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0245par0144	You've eliminated, you've eliminated, you've eliminated the separation of forces!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0242par0145	See, there's a government coming out of life, a government coming out of the majority.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0246par0146	It's been run like this for 90 or three years, Mr. Secretary of Parliament.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0242par0147	Is it possible for the government to discuss something here that they don't want, that they're law enforcement, that you put your hands on your conscience? Is there anything that comes up when the ruling group doesn't say yes? He can't get in. So is the audit, there's an audit here as much as the power allows. Then I say, come...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0247par0148	And you've got the judgment, and you've got it all.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0242par0149	That's not the judgment, it's independent, it's neutral, it's the nation's judgment. Living-walking relationship...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0247par0150	Legislation, execution, judgment, you've got it all.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0242par0151	In all the stages of the Republic period, this is the case. It's like this in our time and in the next. Who owns the majority of the commission? It belongs to the government. Who owns the majority of the General Assembly? It belongs to the government. There'll be a research commission, what's the verdict? Mostly. Well, when the government doesn't say yes, does the ruling group say yes? He's not. Then let's separate the government and this House. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Come, let them be selected separately. Don't let the government come out of the House. Let the MPs be stronger, more effective, and more effective. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's get it into the presidential system, end this discussion.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0247par0155	The palace, the palace!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0248par0156	She'll be in the dream, in the dream.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0249par0157	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0250par0158	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0249par0159	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0250par0160	Mr. Secretary, in his speech, after the testimony of the two opposition opposition party's members of the group... to give each other the right to answer each other...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0251par0161	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0250par0162	...a right to which they use it in the Civil Charter, a division of rights, a conflict of speech, a struggle of speech, a struggle of speech, what has this Parliament gained from it, what has the people earned from it, and what have I earned from it?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0251par0163	He made a general assessment.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0250par0164	...he devalued it and made a heavy taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0251par0165	That never happened.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0250par0166	We have the right to answer the question.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0252par0167	Mr. Special, however, the Minister didn't mean opposition parties, we're all competing. He said, "We're all..."
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0250par0168	I just...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0252par0169	I mean, the way we work here...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0253par0170	No, no... these taunts...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0254par0171	Who did he mean?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0255par0172	I mean, no, I think Mr. Naci has a say in the matter.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0256par0173	Let me explain something to you guys. So let's promise everyone, freedom of speech, okay, and we'll take some advantage of it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0255par0174	Yes, yes, please, sir, I have no objection.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0256par0175	So he didn't pick on the person, listen to any party group -- he didn't pick on them. It was just a review of our way of working here.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0257par0176	He picked on the entire Parliament.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0256par0177	We're competing, Parliament won't win anything, he said. In fact, this was not a rhetoric to discredit Parliament, but a constructive criticism that would give meaning to Parliament's work.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0257par0179	Is that how you perceive it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0256par0180	I listened very well. Mr. Special, think again if you want.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0258par0182	Mr. President, I've listened to you very well, and in the context of your speech, you started once by violating the relevant Civil Code clause, in which the President has a right to debate, to defend himself in the attacks.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0256par0183	After all, I'll decide whether or not you want to pick on your demands. Naturally, I have to tell you what I've seen, what I've heard about it, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0258par0184	Mr. President, there's no doubt that Mr. Baluken and I have just been on the stand two or three times, and what did the nation gain by demeaning the answers we've given each other by demeaning them both by demeaning them as well as by demeaning them?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0256par0185	So, Mr. Special, you want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0258par0186	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0256par0187	Because as your request spreads, you have to address other matters. Here, I promise you for two minutes to protect the reputation of Parliament.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0258par0192	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've just said this, but it's bad to hear these words from a minister, but it's much worse to hear from a minister with a background as a group vice president. Especially seven times in a row, eight times in a row, and we all remember that he was on the stand when the group was acting president -- if Mr. Secretary objects, I'll find him on the transcripts, but in body language, he's confirming the fact that a person did it today -- we're really sorry to see him consider it as a fact that he didn't win anything today. It is both the ritual of Parliament and democracy that the members of the group here respond to a number of bullying or bullying against members of their own group. The two people who know this best, one of them is the minister who just did this bullying, and one of them is your witness; we come from the same places, the same places, the same places. Let's talk about the presidential system. Mr. Minister's assessments are precisely the court's instructions: the implementations of the Speaker of Parliament, the dysfunction of the specialties commissions, the continuation of the operation to discredit the parliamentary system by the ruling party, which eventually led to the cancellation of a reception that was supposed to take place on the founding anniversary of Parliament. We don't surrender to this operation. In this country, we are sworn in by the Constitution to serve with the parliamentary system. On November 1st, no voter in the election district gave Mr. Bekir Bozdağ the authority to serve it at the request of someone else, rather than using the powers he was granted in this parliament, and we will not allow it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0259par0197	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0260par0198	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0259par0199	For the same reason, the political assessments we're making are indiscriminately...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0260par0200	Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0259par0204	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're never talking to compete here. So in any bullying against our group, we inform our people and the public that we have the right from the Civil Code to develop severe criticism of other political parties. As a matter of fact, the discussion that we had just had with CHP was a debate that we found extremely valuable to the public's knowledge, with extremely strong political criticism. Now, here, we marveled at the fact that a ruling party group and a government who are conducting a conscious process of the functioning of Parliament came and described the opposition here as being dysfunctional. So, after June 7th, you're a party that locks on the door of this Parliament, four times, just a few hours after the 7th of June, and that's a political understanding that shuts down this Parliament for the election. So you're the last person to talk to. Look, the agenda of Parliament today is not the public agenda without opposition. The court's agenda is the Parliament's agenda. Whatever the Mukhtars are talking about at their meeting, whatever they're instructing you to do, you're running that agenda in Parliament. Well, you're the one who did it. The Prime Minister of this country, I've instructed the Parliament, the Parliament will continue to work. He can say. I mean, you're bringing in an understanding that defunctions the House in your own hands. You are the one who said, "We are the son, we are the girl." Now the Minister's final statement is a confession to all of this. Yes, we don't want Parliament to speak because we want the presidential system to come. So, we're taking Parliament from the public agenda, and we're pushing the public's presidential system. You're saying that. We can't possibly accept that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0261par0208	Mr. Akçay, I believe you've made a request. I'll give you two minutes. You'll probably use your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0262par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. First, the Minister used his speech as 20 minutes and expressed some opinions. I congratulate him and thank you. Now, at the beginning of his speech alone, the government has no obligation to speak, whether he talks or not. We're saying there shouldn't be such a joy. So he has to feel compelled to talk, to say, and he has to do these briefings. In addition, the speech of the group's deputy president or lawmakers is not a contest, it shouldn't be. But even if there's time and time of speech, it's also the way of Parliament at times, because Parliament is where it's spoken. From time to time, there are jokes, there are teases, there are polemics. Besides, we, Mr. Secretary, know him as a very good polemicist from the time of the group's vice president, and we bear witness to that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0263par0217	Archpolemist, head! That's what he did to even the pharmacists.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0262par0218	Yeah. I mean, it makes a good polemic. So, now, we don't think it's right for him to refer to his past polemics or verbal slurring as intermediary now. If necessary, words will be competed, but the government must speak more effectively in order not to render Parliament dysfunctional, we said so. I'll take your statements about the presidency as a demagogue. So let's not get into this discussion right now because it's not on the agenda, but we're also concerned that that's the reason for some criticism. That's all I have to say for now, I hope...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0264par0221	Mr. Akçay, let's not break even because the other guys are talking for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0262par0222	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0264par0224	Thank you, thank you. Now, he will speak for himself in Balıkesir MP Namık Havut. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0265par0231	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Matters. I salute your high council. Mr. Secretary, first of all, it is correct to state that the international judicial cooperation in criminal matters is due to meet in one law as part of harmonised work in the EU process. In this way, it will benefit the enforcer if the provisions found in the legislation are collected from one source. However, the central office, which has been authorized to review the bill under Article 3, 13, 22, and other relevant articles, has been deemed unsecured, especially in terms of extradition of the criminal. The ministry's authority should be limited to assisting authorities in providing information and documents, as predicted within the existing regulations. However, in the new system brought in, it is replaced by creating a pre-research authority that exists in Article 18 of the Article 18 of the TCK, which is envisioned to be repealed by its bill. We think that such a position is not necessary, that the existing system is more guaranteed. There are three government systems in extradition. One, it's just the government's jurisdiction. Two: only the system in charge of the judiciary. And what we accept is what we call a system of karma, a system that both the government and the judiciary agree with. In this system, the court determines the nature of the perpetrator and the verb, and the government decides to give it back, dear friends. However, with the bill, it gives the Central Authority, the Ministry of Justice, the authority to pre-examine... specifically, the Central Authority, the authority to reject any extradition demands that do not carry the necessary requirements. On the other hand, the criminal court decides to return, provide information, and give documents in the 18th article of the TCK (TCK) today, leaving its appreciation to the Council of Ministers. We're changing order now; first, any external court is asking us for documents, information from outside, the Ministry of Justice is coming to the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Justice can turn it down not only by its own discretion, but by its own discretion; it's not the right arrangement, it's against international contracts. However, if he decides that the request to return it to the court is acceptable under the current regulations, it depends on the discretion of the Council of Ministers if this decision is carried out. In Article 19 of the bill, the fulfillment of this decision is subject to the Prime Minister's approval. With this opportunity, the ministry must be granted pre-research authority, but it must be limited to formal supervision in terms of application conditions. For this reason, the expression that does not carry the necessary conditions of expression in Article 13 of the bill is far from specific. In Article 22/3 of the bill, it is not clear that the central office can refuse the request without conveying the requirements for extradition to the foreign state. The demands, which do not carry the necessary conditions for the 12th and 22nd amendments of the bill, must be consolidated with a statement that the request for extradition does not carry the application requirements. In this way, the examination of the office will be limited only to the formal inspection of the requested information and documents. As a matter of fact, the authority to make legal definitions of the perpetrator and the verb belongs only to independent and impartial courts. In contrast to the bill, the preconception office has the authority to reject the demands directly, which is against the agreements once again. Mr. Secretary, these should be taken into consideration. In the preliminary examination, the reasons for the request's rejection should be attached to objective criteria -- the client's request for additional information and documents -- but it should be possible to reject the request if it is not met without an alibi during a reasonable period of legal time. On the other hand, it is not clear that Turkey's national security and international relations may be harmed, as the same clause is in the form of a three-way bender, and that the demand for extradition may be denied. However, the situation that has already entered Turkey's jurisdiction is an obstacle to extradition. In this case, the possibility will be considered specific to situations that have not been authorized by Turkey to judge, and especially to the state secret. However, in our blood, this substance does not have an objective basis because the concept of probability is not a legal term. The probability is an uncertain concept in the law, which needs to be concreteized and made clear. Again, aside from the conditions adopted by the central authorities and the binding of the judicial authorities, including the issues referred to in the third and fourth amendments of the bill, the matter is far from specific. In the end, it is not clear how, since it is relevant to this procedure of the judicial authority, the terms and guarantees agreed upon will be applied outside of a matter that falls under judicial authority. Dear lawmakers, there is a term for political crime again in Articles 4 and 11 of the bill. The bill does not include the definition of this. What's a political crime? Look, there's no definition of that in our current legislation. On the other hand, there is no clear explanation for political crime in the international contracts being sided with. However, since it is an obstacle to extradition and judicial cooperation, the definition of political crime must be made. It's a controversial issue in the doctrine of political crime, of course. Article 8/3 of the Italian Penal Code defines political crime as "political crime, political interest of the state or any violation of the citizen's political rights." In addition, criminal crimes committed in full or in part by political wisdom are considered political crimes. On the other hand, the Anti-Terror Law must be reviewed, and the distinction between political crime and terrorism must be determined. Look, this way, it prevents people from being declared terrorists because of their thoughts and from hiding behind the terrorist's political crime mask. However, when Articles 1 and 2 of the Anti-Terror Law are considered together, it is necessary to commit a crime as a terrorist organization act, but the third article is considered a direct terrorist crime, with the absence of an armed organization. While terrorism is not an obstacle to extradition, national legislation -- the bill in question -- has been generally accepted in international contracts, which should not be extradited to the country demanding the political criminal. In this case, the 11/2 clause of the bill must be made specific and concrete. Dear lawmakers, in the case of giving back the Turkish Penal Code according to 18 degrees, the person may be tried or sentenced to death for crimes based on the decision to give it back. Dear Minister, again, there is no similar ruling in the article ten/four of the bill. According to the European Convention on Restitution of Criminals, if the scope of the criminal act has been changed during the prosecution, it can only be asked to extradite the person who was extradited with the elements of the redistributed crime. Within these provisions, there are many flaws in this bill that our group has detected. First of all, the judicial authority must not take over. The decision of information and documentation must first be made in the Zencani file -- for example, in the Zarraf file -- that is asked of us from the outside. Mr. Secretary, you now decide to replace the judicial authorities first, then you take them to the judicial authorities, that's not true; for once, we need to fix this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Clearly, your Ministry is replacing the judicial courts. We'll recommend these, we demand correction. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0266par0246	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Congressmans, we're now in the QA section. We're 20 minutes out. We've put the first ten minutes into the questions. Mr. Toğrul, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0267par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in recent months, two German television channels have determined that Ezidi women in ISIS have been selling from the Internet; one of these sales offices is in Gaziantep. In addition to several foreign passports, there were 1,768 pages of Arabic receipts for the transfer of money. The first hearing was 31/12/2015, and they were released shortly after the second hearing for lack of evidence. The translation of Arabic texts was brought to court ten days after the trial. How do you judge the decision of Turkish courts so quickly? How do you assess the inclusion of the Gaziantep Bar, which has filed a criminal complaint? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0268par0253	Thank you. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0269par0255	I'm asking the Minister: 1) In our country, the trial is running very slowly, and every day it collapses a little more. Our citizens often give up seeking rights because justice is late, the costs of seeking rights are high. Do you have any work to reduce the cost of the search for rights? 2) The number of executive agencies in our country continues to increase daily, and new executive offices continue to open. And there's very little work to be done with the executions from the executive offices. Many follow-ups are inconclusive due to the rules of the inequity of debt assets. The creditors are giving up the operation because they've made a lot of expenses due to both surveillance and the entourage, and the collections can't be made. Is there, therefore, a preparation for the removal of impregnableness and the payment of the entremity costs in advance? 3) Due to the late execution of justice and unjust arrests...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0270par0260	Thank you, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0269par0261	...its capacities have doubled. So, what measures do you intend to take to put an end to the trials of prisons?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0270par0262	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0271par0263	At the end of 2015, Turkey became the third most likely to file lawsuits against the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights currently faces a total of 64,850 cases. With this figure, Turkey currently represents 13 per cent of the ECHR's workload. At least one Article of the European Convention on Human Rights was ruled against the 79/7 of Turkey's decisions announced in 2015. As Minister of Justice, do you have any work to fix this report card? How are you going to fix a report card like this?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0270par0264	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0272par0265	In August 2015, the districts of Terme district of Samsun and Sakarlı were flooded in the region in September 2015. The damage caused by the flood has been determined by the authorities. It has been promised that the damages will be repaired, but the damage determined has not compensated the victims of the disaster. There are no roads, vents, canals, bridges that have been damaged by the flood; neighborhoods are in a very difficult situation. We offer to repair the losses of our citizens who have suffered natural disasters, and to have the infrastructure broken down in the neighborhoods, to have the victims removed as soon as possible by showing the necessary sensitivity of the state and its responsible.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0270par0266	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0273par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, when the Iranian President visited our country, did the Iranian businessman Zencani not come to the agenda or not to say, "We paid $8.5 billion in bribes in Turkey," leaving our country under suspicion? Will you inform the High Council?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0270par0269	Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0274par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are numerous, over capacity prisoners and prisoners in prisons, and we're getting a lot of complaints about that. In Balıkesir Kepsut Prison, for example, there are complaints that the current presence is twice its capacity and that the prisoners there are lying on the ground. At this point, does your ministry have a study on the two-year upgrade of the controlled liberalisation mechanism by making a change in the Penal Code? We think it's necessary. Because Turkey has become almost an open prison. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0275par0274	Mr. Tuncer...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0276par0275	Mr. Minister of Justice, my first question is: 85 prisoners were injured on 15 April 2016 on the roof of two blocs of half-open prisons in the District of Gümüşhacıköy of Amasya, Amasya, and opened on September 2015. While the tile has not fallen from the roof of the buildings around it, has an investigation been launched into the Ankara contractor's firm about the roof of the prison, which has not yet reached the age of one; again, has it been launched in the rain to keep the prisoners counting in the garden and keeping the prisoners in the yard for 15 minutes after counting, causing the prisoners to get injured? My second question: Have the promises made by the ministry to the workers who started hunger strike underground as a result of the closure of the New Cheltek mine and the decision to send the workers back to Soma? When will the commitment be fulfilled? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0277par0278	Mr. Dogan...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0278par0279	Mr. Secretary, as you know, the European Parliament Progress Report was published last week. In the report, the European Parliament called on the Council of Europe to begin talks with Turkey on opening the judiciary and fundamental rights chapter. Do you have an action plan or is it on your agenda? We'd also like you to inform us of the rights to attorney assistance and access to the judicial rights of disorganized immigrants who have been admitted to return centers. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0279par0282	Thank you. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0280par0284	Thank you. The latest example of systematicly increasing violations in Turkey's prisons is the Alanya L Type Prison. By not opening a new ward for these violations, we have received information about rights violations such as keeping prisoners and prisoners on the floor, putting sheets on the floor, seizing books, newspapers and letters, including personal items, booking, isolation, torture and abuse, constant surveillance with cameras, absorption during air-conditioning hours, benefiting social and sporty activities, and confiscating the vital needs and tools of prisoners and prisoners. Has an investigation been launched by your Ministry of State regarding the allegations? Does your ministry have any precautions or precautions?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0279par0286	Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0281par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. Balıkesir is the head of our important provinces in the organisation of the Salvation War, and of Kuvaimilliya. The signing campaign is being carried out under the leadership of local media and by the ruling and opposition parties in the province. I'm asking the Minister: We want Balıkesir to be taken under the same law when it is legal to give the Honourable Medal to Şanlıurfa. It is also important for the spirit of Kuvasimilliya to be evaluated together during a time when we need more brotherhood in the country. Will you give the Balıkesirians the good news of this honor? Can't our cities be declared brother cities, given the same law and the Istrillal Medal? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0282par0290	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0283par0291	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Minister, last year in March 2015, Adıyaman Kurdish student Ramazan Fırat was found dead by his roommates in Lüleburgaz, with his wrists slashed and stabbed in the back. Three roommates were detained and arrested. There was a confidentiality order in the investigation, and then we hear that these three roommates are released after four or five months in prison. Now, I'm asking you, why is the investigation classified? If his roommates are innocent, who or who killed Ramadan Fırat? Do you trust this justice? Is a young man's life so cheap?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0282par0293	Mr. Secretary, please. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0284par0295	Mr. President, dear friends, of course, allegations of slave trafficking with certain women connected to the DEAS terrorist organization have appeared in the newspapers today. So we told our friends to look into it. We, of course, have no way of tracking everything that's going on in the judiciary, because we have no way of knowing because they're judging the investigations, and they're confidential, and we have no way of knowing, but after we've been in the media, we're getting information about what's going on and why there's no way to let our precious deputies know about them or why they haven't been punished.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0285par0297	The translations were given ten days later.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0284par0298	Now, of course, we don't have the right to ask the court, nor do we have the authority. Unless, of course, there's a court of justice or a court of law who's doing the investigation and who's making the decision here. So we don't have the right to make an impression or to say, "Why are you doing this?" I wish we had. There are a lot of things I'm uncomfortable about, just like you. I ask, "Why is this happening? " Now, when I ask that as Minister of Justice, it's a crime, and it's a crime when I don't ask. We don't really have...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0285par0299	Mr. Secretary, you're asking the others.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0284par0300	No, we have no right to ask any such question, we have no authority, we have no control, but we have a duty to inform our House of this. And when all that information comes in, we'll let you know right here. But the slave trade or whatever crime it is, whatever it is, it's got to be punished for it. The DEA is a blood-soaked terrorist organization, committing crimes against humanity, committing monstrous murders. The fight against such a terrorist organization is everyone's duty, our country's duty. Currently, there are around 500 people in Turkey's prisons under arrest from the DEAS terrorist organization. There are also those who have been released under judicial control; when you look at the number of these, there are over 1,000 people currently under surveillance, judicial control and arrest. There are also 24 convicts, convicted, convicted, convicted. In an effective way, the Republic of Turkey is fighting the DEA terrorist organisation, just as it fights the bloody PKK terrorist organization, and will continue to fight it after that. True, we have real problems, so we always speak of it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0286par0303	We have a verdict in 15 days.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0284par0304	Of course we have to do everything we can to speed up the trial. As the ministry, we're doing serious work on this. In the coming days, we will move three separate packages to our Parliament, which will reduce the workload of criminal trials, administrative trials and judicial trials, and help our citizens end their rights search sooner. Also, as you know, the constitutional judicial path is now in our legislation, which is now in effect, but has not been implemented. The assignments have been made. On July 20, 2016, the indictment will be launched. This means that 91 per cent of the files will be finalized in the criminal trial, 89% of the files in the judicial trial, and 80 per cent of the files in the administrative trial, and that will speed up the trial. There's nothing missing from the file in the study process, there's no way to corrupt the file and send it to the local court when it sees something wrong; it will correct the error itself, complete the lack; case review, evidence review, evaluation -- if necessary, it will all do so on its own, and it will be a very important step to speed up the trial. We are starting a system called time management in the judiciary. Every citizen who sues will be given a document as soon as he makes a case on how many days his trial will be over. Every citizen who complains to the prosecutors will be given a document as to how long it will take to make a decision on his complaint. In the judicial judiciary and administrative judiciary, the Supreme Court, the Court, all of them, we're building a system that will ensure that the courts will be committed in such a timely manner, hopefully starting from January 1, 2017. There are so many steps, of course, that it takes a long, long time to explain all of this, and I'd like to express it. Of course, we don't have that idea, we don't have that kind of work, and we don't see it right. There's a study in our Ministry about impoundability, and when it's done, we'll give you a detail about it. In the eyes of the European Court of Human Rights, of course, Turkey's report card is not good right now, so we need to do it better, no doubt about it, but with the measures taken by our government, this report card has changed positively. I give you the number of troubled applications against Turkey in the history of 31/12/2012; it is 16,876. The figure is 9,150, as of 31/9/2015, and 8.600, as of early March.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0287par0310	Congressmans, would you please be quiet?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0284par0311	So there are more files in the process after that. Whatever you say we did to bring it down, individual application, ombudsmanship, they played very important roles, making arrangements to prevent rights violations in our laws. A lot of work has been done. The Department of Human Rights was established in the Ministry of Justice. Besides, the Human Rights Compensation Commission has been established. In addition, an action plan has been drawn up for the removal of issues of the violation of European Court of Human Rights rulings. We are continuing our work within the framework of this action plan. We're predicting that this trend will go down in the next process. Of course, I'd like to wish you a great deal of good news about the disasters in Terme and Basin. Since I don't know anything about the Ministry right now, I'd like to say that I'm going to pass this on to my concerned friends on to you. During negotiations with the Iranian President, I was present at the intercommittee meeting. Between the delegations, the talks discussed increased trade between Turkey and Iran, strengthening political co-operation and regional problems, tourism and other areas were discussed. None of this came up. How Turkey-Iran relations will be better, has been evaluated. I'd like to express that. Of course, there are too many prisoners and prisoners in prisons, and I agree with our MPs' assessment. However, the issue of the two-year extension of the period to obtain probationary freedom has been assessed by our ministry, and we have no positive opinion here. Right now, you know, people who are one year away from parole can benefit from probation. When we take this up to two years, it means that a person who's serving three years in prison, maybe a day, maybe two days, maybe a week at the most, will be out in no time. When we look at the proportion of the crimes committed in Turkey at the moment, the three years, almost a large majority of the crimes that have violated public order require punishments in this scope, since this is being appointed according to the final sentence. This means: "Do not punish many crimes that are corrupting the public order. " I mean, you'll see it when you consider it one crime at a time. That's why two years means three years without punishment. We don't have that kind of work as a ministry. We don't think it's right to do this kind of work. I've already explained to you, can there be another formula? I said we had that kind of search, but so far we haven't been able to come up with a positive formula.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0288par0316	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0289par0317	He didn't answer the other question.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0288par0318	All right, let's answer one more question, please.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0290par0319	The incident with Silver Crossesville is extremely important. I thank you for your sensitivity. It's been temporarily accepted, it's not fully accepted yet. About that, we sent an inspector from the Ministry. We've sent our Deputy Undersecretary, our General Manager of Punishment and Investigation. This whole thing is being investigated. Anyone there, including those involved in the inspection of this construction, will be investigated both administratively and forensically. It will also be applied to the necessary extent of negligence, intent, flaws. I mean, I just want you to know that at this point, we're not gonna be looking at anyone's eyes. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0288par0321	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. III. Exposure
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0291par0325	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit08spe0288par0326	I'll submit to your votes to the amendments, but there's a roll call, so let's do it. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Yılim, Mr. Man, Mr. Division, Mr. Green, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Üskan, Mr. Star, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Pine, Mr. All, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Emre, Mr. Akar. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm gonna take a five-minute break, and I'm gonna invite the group presidents to meet.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0288par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 278 from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first chapter covers the 1st to 22nd article. On the first chapter, Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0292par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the first chapter of Bill 278, which is being discussed. I salute the grand jury. First of all, Minister, what you're doing here...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0293par0014	Mr. Ayhan, if I may interrupt, I'll add to your time. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you'll please keep your silence. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0294par0017	Thank you. At this time of night, of course, tired friends, it's hard to be one of the last speakers. I just want to say, Mr. Secretary, that I'm really pleased with your last conversation. I've given up part of the criticism I'm going to make here. Although some of what you're saying may not have convinced me, at least I understand what the government, the government, is thinking about. That's a really good thing. Sometimes tactically, sometimes for other reasons, the government doesn't talk, but I don't think it's right. I'd like to express that I'm particularly pleased with your speech. But, for how long? There was no problem until the last part. You're headed for embezzlement, where there's nothing more democratic about it. I didn't want to say this, but I'd like to bring in the transcripts tomorrow and do a more detailed analysis, but I still think it's very helpful that you speak. First of all, I've really been convinced about some things, and I've given up judgment. Second, what did we do that you would insist on certain matters? We've seen it. Mr. President, lawmakers, the general reason for the bill is that the international judicial co-operation of one state, the authorities of another state, covers legal aid, extradition of another state, the age of investigation and prosecution and the transfer of prisoners. Borderline crimes are rising, new criminal organizations are emerging. In order to do so, international judicial cooperation is needed in criminal matters, agreements are signed. In addition to multilateral agreements, our country, the United States, Morocco, India, Iran, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Egypt, Mongolia, Uzbekistan, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Tunisia, and so on, co-operation agreements with other countries were signed. With this bill, it will facilitate the implementation of agreements in the field of international judicial co-operation on criminal issues into internal law. And then there's the consent thing. This bill will include international judicial co-operation institutions, such as the restitution policy, which we have not previously established, and the need for legislation on issues will be met. So the consensual events will be solved. Now, of course, it's important to have your consent. What is happening in the Council of Ministers shortly before this bill is discussed or signed on the Council of Ministers? Sustained. I don't know when he arrived at the Prime Minister's office. It is possible to describe this: perhaps a divine coincidence, perhaps a result of a need after this event. This has already been studied and so on, but his coming to the Prime Minister really has to do with the government's consent or other consent, what do you have to do with him? Gotta check it out, gotta check it out. Now, after that, we, the National Movement Party, have already stated in our election statement that structural and legal obstacles in front of the access to justice of our citizens abroad will be lifted by weighting international co-operation opportunities. We also said that co-operation between countries is essential in the fight against such problems, in order for crime and the capture of criminals. Now, in the opposition of members of our National Movement Party Group of Justice Commission members, the bill includes special-quality issues and some concepts that will enter our law for the first time. Especially in cases related to borderline crime, especially financial institutions and banks, countries and doers may be in different countries. That is why it is said that cooperation is important in these matters. Of course, in the framework of international cooperation, it is important to bring the perpetrator back for the execution, to be brought to the country where he committed the crime and to be brought to justice. In addition, co-operation is inevitable in the capture and trial of those who have committed crimes in our country and fled abroad or committed crimes abroad. Now, here's the main element of the bill, as the central office, of the Department of Justice. While this is an arrangement that can help things move quickly, we consider that the authority and responsibility given to the foreign policy is beyond a ministry due to the fact that the decisions to be made are related to security, politics, social and economic issues. You tried to convince us here, but unfortunately, I don't think that's a good explanation, Mr. Secretary, but he did. Now, as we just said, the coming of this bill to the House, if you really look at the consent of it, it's either the grace of God or the proportion of it. Of course, in matters related to this bill, what did the government have, especially about the laughing file or the parallel incident? He had a lot of knowledge, a lot of work. Then it was backwards. Why? What was he doing? The issues that were being tried to bring in an outsider were heavy. Now, what we're thinking here is that, given the fact that there's been a little bit of an incident, the bird has already escaped from the outside -- it's important -- but I want to make it very clear that it's important that it's overlap with each other. I, in particular, would like to ask the Ministry: 19 or 20 on the arrest in the United States, the signature on the Council of Ministers is 21, its arrival here, its arrival in parliament is 24, by the way, whether the government or the Ministry have an outside request for information is important for us. That's what we expect from the government, at least we want it. We feel the public needs to be enlightened. Really, it's a difficult situation. I've just told you, in Article 2 of the bill, what is defined as a central authority is that in many articles the powers given to this office can position the administration above the judicial authority, and the forces can establish the principle of dissolution. In Article 3 you also regulate the duties and powers of the central office. However, the fact that these powers are in the ministry alone, the decision to make is related to security, foreign policy, politics, social policy and economic issues, and the ministry too. There is, indeed, one thing that I would like to point out in particular, and we have just expressed it, but it came in Article 17; the matter of voluntary extradition is left to the Ministry of Justice's approval. The 17th article of Article (4) is also referred to as the fulfillment of a restitution order based on the consent of the Central Court. Indeed, it's true that in today's world, there's a need for such a thing due to technological and financial developments, national security, the extent of crimes that pose a threat to economic interests, to bordering dimensions, but we need to be enlightened in terms of timing, which we expect from this government. I think it's very useful for them to come here and talk. Thank you, and I give my regards to the high council. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0295par0036	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Zeynel Emre will speak. Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0296par0040	Mr. President, I've been promised on behalf of my party about the first chapter of the International Criminal Co-operation Act (I.A.) in Article 278. I salute you. Dear lawmakers, when we consider this bill for globalization in terms of the situation on earth today, we can say that we live in a very suitable environment for the development of the crime's organisational diameter with simple tools. The propaganda device, for example, is no longer only done in the squares, in the fields, in these platforms; the execution area of every subject we can imagine is in social media environments where we can access it with phones in our pockets, where no ban can be prevented. From Arab Spring to social media movements, each of us is a witness to the power of social media, but social media can not always be used to build a historical value, such as Travel, and lynching calls can be done in a similar way through social media, and there are examples. The network, which is the key to access to what we call the social media, is a door to possibilities far beyond that today. Look, recently, the identity information of 45 million of our citizens has been opened to the entire world by this network. We live in an era of technological advancement that leads to world politics. Globalization determines the future with extraordinary speeds, yes, and so does crime. Now, in this respect, there's no doubt that such a bill, as in other draft laws, is needed, as in the last-term bill that comes in here and meets with the Justice Commission. We say the same thing every time, we're determined to tell you, and we look forward to the day, you see. What do we say? Many of the plans we've been talking about on this board for days are necessary, but they're not. This method of the ruling party clearly reveals intentions that are actually visible to the naked eye. This bill is necessary in terms of fighting crimes that have just become limited for the reasons I understand, and it is also important in a country like Turkey that has millions of citizens living abroad, but we don't think that these plans have passed through the AKP, we don't know, we don't see; we understand very well what the goal is. Now, in the coming days, there's going to be a bill of expertise that we're going to take word from here and draw attention to. Like the bill we've discussed today, you'll see that the matter of expertise includes materials that make it possible to transfer certain jurisdictional powers into the executive area. The intentions of a bill containing regulations that would allow the Justice Department bureaucrats to save on the judge's jurisdiction are too obvious to be a secret. To expect us to believe that political power can't handle this international co-operation with a political evil is actually to mock our mind. What are we talking about? Look, like Reza Zarrab. Now we have a Justice Ministry that will not reject international cooperation in the matter of Article 4 of the bill, which allows foreign states to refuse judicial cooperation if sovereignty, national security, public order or other basic interests are violated. We believe we have people waiting for us to say. But there is no one to know, there is no one to know, there is a lot of work being done in the General Assembly, where the Justice Commission meets in an instant, and there is a lot of work being done by a majority of bills. Each one of the drafts contains a separate shadow, each one giving a comment. The necessity of the law must be measured by its problem-solving or preventing problems. If the law is bent and bent to impose power, it's not the law anymore, it's the political agenda. We're no longer interested in revealing the intentions of these plans, drawing attention to their wrongs, referring to their risks. Dear friends, every step you take is confusing this country's political ecology. You're playing with the nature of this country and the political nature of this country, just like you've ripped it out of its place with big machines and planted it elsewhere, and you don't see that you're eating this country from the inside out. Look, this bench has now become an environment in which we're trying to increase the number of people we can save in the face of this insatiable attitude of power. So, how do you guys like it, how long do you think you can live with this power poisoning? One day you too may be in a position to be the subject of the laws that appear here today. There may not be a situation where you can be protected and protected at the pleasure of the Ministry. We, lawmakers of the main opposition party, will defend the same values tomorrow, whatever values we stand for today. Now, I'd like to point out one more thing here. In this parliament, there are statements for all parties that are expected to be passed in the name of the quickly passed law, as well as the title of the visa exemption, which is expected to be passed in the form of more than 70 euros, and to make it easier for all parties about it, and that is one of the issues that are often expressed on this bench when the laws are being discussed. The heart wants the European Union to give us this authority on visa exemption, so that our citizens can go freely to Europe, visit everywhere, and not deal with visas. It is a source of great sadness for all of us to have our citizens waiting at the consulate gates on this matter. So, if there's going to be an arrangement, we're willing to support it. Look, it's not going to happen. We don't want to break their spirits, and we don't want to break their hopes, but it's our duty as the main opposition party to tell our citizens the truth of such a public event. In this regard, much of the European Union's countries are already being told against it. While these talks were being held, there was a public statement in Turkey about visa exemption, as those statements were said before they dried the ink, we immediately received statements from different countries. We find it in any way necessary to allow Turkey to be granted visa exemption, even if these were the following. We do not accept it. Now, when we talk about this, we see that it goes something like this, so if they don't keep their promises to us about visa exemptions, then we don't fulfill our obligations. As Turkey, as we have fulfilled our obligations, there's not a lot of ground to cover. The European Union's greatest fear is that in light of developments in our border, the migration wave to Turkey could also reach its own countries, the social balance in their own countries, the economic conditions that could be broken; this is the biggest concern, and Turkey needs Turkey for that. However, Turkey has already received as many refugees as it can, millions of refugees are living in Turkey now, and there are many refugees captured in European Union countries and handed over to Turkey as part of the re-enactment agreement, and there is a continuation of that every day. Therefore, after September or after the end of June, we, the European Union, have not fulfilled our commitments, and you have not fulfilled our commitments. We do not have an argument to make such an approach. Why am I saying this? For what I'm saying in the first place, as we're talking about here in the law today, steps on the European Union are being taken on the basis of many legislation referred to to the commissions, which needs to be carefully investigated, which needs to be studied, and that is why the European Union wants visa exemptions, and as a result of that, legislations being discussed here and legalised will be needed to reform the Parliament later. So, in the past, we know that there are laws that have been renegotiated here that have been passed and returned very briefly. Doing so in such a hurry will not help us or Turkey. So, especially this bill, which is so quickly discussed and legal, we are here as the main opposition party, making the necessary warnings. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm afraid we don't, but time will also justify us, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0297par0051	Thank you, Mr. Emre. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Ayşe Acar Başaran will speak. Here you are, Mr. Basian.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0298par0055	Dear President, Congressman, I salute you all. I, too, have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the International Co-operation Act and the Justice Commission Report on Criminal Matters. Clearly, during the last period, many legislations have come to the Council, particularly regarding visa exemption, and unfortunately, each of these legislations -- as we have already stated -- are brought to parliament without any study, without consulting the civil society in any way, without the necessary debates over this in any way, and unfortunately, during negotiations in the House, only during the voting, we see that these laws have been issued in a functional situation that only serves as printers.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0299par0058	Were you on the mountain?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0298par0059	Yeah, there's been a lot of laws in recent processes, but I think we need to look at how they're applied when we're making these laws. There are already many contracts, and we see that Turkey has signed many international contracts and is in effect. However, for the past eight or nine months in particular, it is clear, clear and clear that there have been many violations all over Turkey. This blockade system, under curfews, has no place or application in Turkish law. As long as there is no martial law in this parliament, there is no legal basis for such long-term blockades of cities, bombings of cities, killing civilians. Again, there is another law, which we cannot meet because the ruling party, which is originally scheduled to be held today, considers itself just a law-making machine, in fact, a law on the contract, which is the Law on Children's Welfare and Other Family Nafaka species, referred to the Convention on International Collections, which has been referred to as a Law on Children's Rights of the United Nations Articles of the United Nations, and on the higher benefits of the children, and on what the Minister of the Government has said once in the case of rapeing 45 children.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0300par0062	Let's not deflect, please! Keep the facts objective.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0298par0063	Yes, we also signed this international contract, which is now in effect, but unfortunately we can't do anything here.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0300par0064	That's not fair. Don't twist the facts!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0298par0065	We protect the child's benefit: An initiative that comes to Cizre today cannot play games with children because police come and distribute children, and no games are allowed.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0300par0066	That's where you twist the facts!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0298par0067	Come, come, we can all go and watch. There's nothing wrong with talking about it. While there should be sufficient living standards for the physical, mental, spiritual, moral, and social development of each child, the children who are now leaving Sur say that they are only doing things to mimic the sound of bombs. Yeah, well, like I said, we can sign a lot of international contracts, we can make a lot of great laws here, but how can we avoid the rights that we should be talking about instead of the law that we should be talking about here? I don't know the Constitutional Court, and I don't respect its decision.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0301par0070	I don't know the Constitutional Court. He didn't say.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0298par0071	You can claim as many excellent laws as you want, but at the top, I don't know the Constitutional Court, which calls itself the community of this country. Yes, you say there are no files in the European Court of Human Rights. That's true, once again, an individual application mechanism has been established to a Constitutional Court due to the violations of the European Court of Human Rights, imposed by the European Union, but now all the files are piling up there. They're going back to the European Court of Human Rights from the Constitutional Court. As you all know, if you think you can cover up all these crimes with the system that you've been running around in this way, I'd like to point out once again that you're wrong. I'd like to talk about another international contract, perhaps my female friends will be sensitive about it. CEDAW is a contract against any discrimination against women. Today we're left with the most women-discriminate power in history, unfortunately, because women are the only people...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0302par0074	We're making positive discrimination, positive discrimination.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0298par0075	...to shut down the house -- no other way -- and we see clearly that a system such as pushing out of society is being implemented. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE] Like I said, you can say that you've passed as many laws as you want, but you have to see how well it's done.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0302par0076	We're making positive discrimination with women.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0298par0077	You won't be able to cover up any of your actions by clapping like this, trying to defend yourself like I said.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0303par0078	The sun doesn't roll with clay.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0298par0079	Today's curfew is being imposed in Silvio, and people's homes are being destroyed, and the house of the people is falling on their heads. Yeah, well, there's no basis for that, there's no legal infrastructure, but since the coup after June 7th, we've already stopped being a state of law...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0304par0080	Tell me about the law, the law. Talk about the law, don't get carried away.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0298par0081	We have now become a system of power for its own personal ambitions, its own rants, its own political powers and its own power. So if you think you can fool the European Union from here, you're wrong again. The latest report from the European Parliament is clear and clear. You say you'll return it. You return it, it'll come back to you, or it'll be the last time that the European Court of Human Rights...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0304par0083	We don't recognize that report.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0298par0084	...because you haven't even carried out any of your decisions, we'll see that soon enough when a committee comes in here and investigates why this isn't implemented, you can't actually conceal the crimes you've committed, it'll be revealed again. Like I said, I really think we should stop fooling ourselves, fooling ourselves, and come on, let's talk about what we really need to talk about. Let's talk about the blockades of cities; let's talk about how children are covered up every day, every moment, everywhere they're subjected to sexual harassment and abuse; let's talk about how all kinds of torture is being done today in prisons; come, today, let's talk about whether we can go to prisons and see each other as an MP; essentially, come, let's talk about practice. You can't fool anyone with these wonderful laws you're about to take out of here. You say "friends go shopping," but you can't see him anymore.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0305par0087	You come to the House every three months, what are you talking about? You're not even here.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0298par0088	Like I said, these laws have no legal infrastructure, no ground. And we all know from here what the laws that you've already passed and created serve. I believe I've bothered you enough, I believe I've confronted you with the truth enough. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0306par0092	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0307par0093	I didn't find it worth answering, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0306par0094	Congressmans, of course I'm aware of being impartial when I'm doing my duty as Speaker of Parliament. And I think I've done that sincerely. But in the end, I'm an Istanbul MP for a party, and I'm a woman, and I'm currently running the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Thank you. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo President) The voices, applauding]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, I believe you have a statement to make. In a matter that we have just spoken on the stand, Mr. President, we've all cursed, we've all cursed, we've called it a case, and all sorts of transactions that need to be done about the punishment of criminals, there's nothing wrong with a government member at once. It's an extremely disgusting slander. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) No government member can do anything at once. He can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't. I felt the need to express it specifically for the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0308par0102	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0306par0103	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0308par0104	Mr. Secretary, they have brought a clear accusation against our group and our orator of slander. Obviously...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0309par0105	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0310par0106	He answered on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0311par0107	It's a disgusting slander, isn't it? Right.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0312par0108	It's obvious what's disgusting.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0311par0109	Right.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0313par0110	Congressmans, I'm listening to the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0312par0111	The whole of Turkey's public debate of that abomination is good, there's nothing wrong with it, but its assessment is a clear taunt. Therefore, because of bullying, our group has a say in the matter. We want to talk about bullying according to 69.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0313par0112	Okay, two minutes. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0312par0114	Meral Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0313par0115	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0314par0116	You can't defend yourself, can you?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0315par0119	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, it's best to appeal to the public's opinion that it's a disgusting slander. All of Turkey heard those words, and we heard them.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0316par0122	No, you're lying.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0315par0123	Those words were not taken back.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0317par0124	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0315par0125	We're not discussing a real situation, a case, where the children are being raped in Karaman, and tomorrow's trial is being held. So why are you stopping life in Karaman tomorrow when you say it's a disgusting slander? Karaman will not fly tomorrow, and the press will ban any press releases. It must have been ordered by the court, closed to the press, closed to surveillance.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0318par0126	What would you do if it was your child? Tell me what you would do if you had a child!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0315par0127	To protect the Ensar Foundation...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0319par0128	We're protecting the children, the children. Would you like your own child to be announced there, Mr. Coral Danış?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0318par0129	I invite you to empathize.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0315par0130	And while we're negotiating here in Congress, we're very persistently and persistently looking into it, and we're going to find out what abuses and rapes the children have been subjected to, and we're going to curse whatever foundation, whatever group, whatever division they've done, we're going to expose the criminals together.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0318par0131	Think of it as your own child.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0315par0132	But here the hands -- because they asked for an audience -- unfortunately, they stood up as a no to the research motion.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0320par0133	Look at the child abuses in Kandil.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0315par0134	All of Turkey recorded this, and Minister of Family and Social Policy, once in a while, nothing happens.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0320par0135	Look at the abuses of women in Kandil.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0315par0136	...not the kids, but the foundation, and we've all heard very strongly that you're protecting the foundation.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0320par0137	Look at PKK's abuses.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0321par0138	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0315par0139	I mean, you've got a wound, you've got a wound, you've got a wound, you've got a wound!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0320par0140	Look at the terrorist organization's harassment.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0315par0141	You wouldn't be so excited if you didn't have a wound.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0322par0142	You're the ones with the scars. You're slandering me!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0315par0143	You're being offended at this time of night. If I were you, maybe I'd keep quiet and at least get it off my chest.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0323par0144	We don't take it personally, so take it easy.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0322par0145	Tell them what the PKK has done.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0315par0146	So, the Ensar Foundation Karaman incident is one of the most tragic events in this country. We'll keep asking for it. We'll be at Karaman tomorrow.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0324par0148	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0325par0149	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0324par0150	Mr. President, in his speech earlier, they claimed that we closed the incident there, referring to the matter at Karaman. We'll answer about him.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0325par0151	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0324par0154	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Believe me, political authorities, positions come and go, but I think our humanity, our conscience, our morality will stay with us until we die. Mr. Secretary said he didn't say that in the most obvious way about himself here, he read it, he explained it. And yet, that's what you want him to say, so it's polemic. That's not what he said. Even though he didn't say so?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0326par0157	Well, at least let him apologize.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0324par0158	Two: I think we're more sensitive about this than anyone else. Tomorrow we will go to Karaman, with the case in Karaman, and with the delegation that we have formed, and we will follow for our children's sake, not for polemics, but for our sensibility; and we will work, and we will work, and we will observe, and we will work, and he will be punished for the harshest punishment.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0327par0159	What are we gonna do about that foundation?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0328par0160	Not one scoundrel, many scoundrels.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0324par0161	You're more like it, we're more like it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0329par0162	What will happen to the institutions in charge?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0324par0163	So I would like to invite you again -- at least as a woman -- to use a more sensitive language about a female minister. Who would want a child to suffer this kind of abuse, and who would want a child to be a victim of such distress? We have a sensitivity, and it's our children. If the case is closed, if the judge has taken a step towards it, shouldn't you respect it?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0329par0165	Where it happened, where it happened, where it happened? Where's his place? What? Where? How? Who's in charge?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0330par0166	What in God's name are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0324par0167	Which one of you - for all of us - can blame each other more? You're more sensitive, and I'm not, okay?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0331par0168	You're not, you're not!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0324par0169	I have to say, you have to say we're sensitive. We called the Ensar Foundation, he's going with a lot of lawyers, he's gonna be the kids' lawyer. You guys are going, we're going, it's all going public. Let's follow it together.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0331par0171	It's closed, it's closed.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0324par0172	One more thing: four parties came together, decided to form a joint commission about it, and it was read here today. So I'm trying to tell you what we're missing. One thing remains, and that's intimacy; if we're sincere, we're here, and we want to get close to it, away from slander, from polymia. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0332par0175	Thank you. In the name of the person...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0333par0177	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0334par0178	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0335par0179	I didn't, Mr. President, for God's sake. I swear to God, have mercy.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0336par0180	He framed me. You said.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0334par0181	So by targeting me directly, he claimed that as a woman, I was not sensitive to the female minister. Don't be so obvious about this...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0335par0182	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0337par0183	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0338par0184	That's what he said.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0339par0185	I took notes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0337par0186	As a woman, you need to be sensitive to the minister. He said, or said something in that tone.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0340par0187	We need to be able to demand it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0339par0188	But it wasn't necessary that I didn't show...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0337par0189	It's not a taunt, it's not a taunt, Mr. Beştaş, please... Mr. Special, come in...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0339par0191	Mr. President, but there's an open taunt.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0337par0192	It's not a tease, please...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0339par0193	He questioned my sensitivity. This is a tease, isn't it?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0337par0194	He didn't question your sensitivity. I don't want you to...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0341par0195	She can't question your sensitivity to the minister.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0339par0196	How can I question such a thing as a man who devoted his life to women's rights? She can't question my feminine sensibilities.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0342par0197	Look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0343par0198	No, he didn't accuse you of insensitive women's rights.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0344par0199	Read the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0345par0200	On the contrary, he just accused me. About the female minister as a woman...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0343par0201	He didn't do that, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0346par0202	You don't have to defend him.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0347par0203	You're having fun. Yeah, have fun. You found something to have fun about, have fun.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0343par0204	I'll get the transcripts, I'll read them, and then I'll decide if I'll promise you anything. I'll get the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0348par0205	We're against any abuse.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0343par0206	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0349par0207	Mr. President, there has just been a very important conversation during negotiations on the entire law. After the speech in Poland, Mr. Minister said that Mr. Bekir Bozdağ wanted to speak but could not speak after the opposition, following the Minister's non-verbal situation. And you said that you understood that he wanted to answer from his place, and that's why you didn't call him to the stand. Now, as I understand it, in the meantime, there's going to be a rhetorical discussion on chapter one, and then we're going to go against it. We see there's no request for a conversation that's been reported to the stand. We're warning the Minister not to fall into the situation just now. Mr. Secretary, on behalf of the government... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, in short...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0350par0211	One more minute, please.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0349par0212	The groups may not be speaking in order for Parliament to pass quality legislation, but it is unacceptable for the government not to express its views on this matter... and it was just perceived as being doing that, but it was immediately corrected, Minister, I was going to speak, absolutely not.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0350par0213	Yeah, it really was, but I explained that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0349par0214	Oh, yeah. Now, it seems the Minister has no demands. In order for the same misunderstanding and not to happen afterwards, we find it helpful to remind the minister that he has a five-minute window to deliver his request to the bench. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0351par0217	Thank you. Mr. Mahmut Poyrazlı will speak on behalf of Balıkesir MP. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0352par0225	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment on the first chapter of the International Criminal Co-operation Act. I salute the High Council. Mr. President, I would also like to express my great pleasure as a woman's MP to have you run the Grand Assembly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, I'd like to say once again that we are against any abuse. The fact of globalization as a movement that affects all areas of life today, as mentioned by my predecessors, is one of the common agendas of all countries. It is a critical political reflex that governments at work take the necessary measures in all areas in the face of the transformative impact of globalization, activate integration programmes, and thus ensure a healthy course of transformation. So far, the AK PARTY governments have done it properly and continue to do it properly. Globalisation and especially technological innovations and the ease of IT systems have led to increased crime and new forms of crime. This situation and international terrorism have also increased the needs of countries for international judicial cooperation every day. One of the issues of the need for these challenges is international co-operation in criminal matters. International judicial co-operation in criminal matters can be described as a whole of the operations carried out by the judicial authorities of a state on behalf of the judicial authorities of another state. International judicial co-operation on criminal issues is primarily covered by co-operation, extradition of criminals, the age of investigations and prosecutions, the age of execution and the transfer of prisoners. International judicial co-operation is an area where domestic law and international law are intertwined. Due to the lack of special law on judicial cooperation in our internal law so far, activities in this area are being tried to be carried out under the regulations of the Ministry of Justice, including international contracts, international agreements, the Turkish Penal Code and the Penal Code Act. Members of parliament, due to the absence of a law on criminal international judicial co-operation, unfortunately it has not been used effectively by our judicial authorities so far. The application shows that our judicial authorities have asked for less and more judicial cooperation than foreign state authorities. There is no doubt that there is a major impact on the lack of a holistic and inclusive guiding law that regulates international judicial cooperation. Dear lawmakers, with this bill, which, hopefully, will be legalized by your discretion and votes, the general framework of the international judicial cooperation in criminal matters will be held. In light of the legal precedents and the needs of our country, the measures and foundations of international judicial cooperation are determined in the fight against crime at an international level and the prosecution of criminals and the execution of punishments. With this bill, it will make it easier and more effective to conduct judicial co-operation within the framework of this law, which is more familiar with international contracts and international agreements in terms of our judicial authorities. Again, the discrepancies in our internal law and the gaps in our legislation compared with the provisions of the agreement have led to the failure of the judicial union to be effectively carried out, which will also be avoided. In this context, there will be no need to take out various sentences in order to guide the implementation, and the implementation union among the judicial authorities will be provided. We also have international judicial cooperation institutions, such as the age of prosecution or prosecution and the return procedure, which had not previously been implemented in our legislation, and as part of the visa liberalisation dialogue process, a duty to our country will be met on the road map. I ask that the bill bring good deeds to our country, to our nation, to our judicial authorities, to all of our MPs who contribute during the commission's work, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0353par0238	Thank you, Mr. Poyrazian. On behalf of him, the other speaker will be Mr. Selina Doğan, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0354par0242	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the International Administration Act on Criminal Matters. We call it criminal co-operation, we call it extradition of criminals, we call it punishment of criminals, but when we look from the outside, Turkey is a country that actually welcomes criminals and tries to cover the crimes of criminals.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0355par0244	Who's he hosting? Who's he hosting? He's making it up!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0356par0246	Wait till he tells me.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0357par0247	As a matter of fact, last week the European Parliament progress report was published, you know. The report has very serious warnings about security, especially regarding our southern borders. Let's see what's happening on our southern borders. You know, yesterday, when the rockets fired from the ISIS-controlled Bab area hit the downtown kilis...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0358par0249	By the time 700,000 people reached the European borders, their borders were like electricity. Five million of us have entered our borders.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0357par0250	I'm sorry. If you have something to say, I'll shut up.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0358par0251	Tell me that, tell me that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0359par0252	Please don't talk to each other. Mr. Speaker, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0360par0254	They're talking, sir. What's he gonna do? It's messing with your mind.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0359par0255	Congressman, please do not disturb the speaker's language, his order. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0361par0257	Yesterday, four children lost their lives, five Syrian lives, and another six were injured as the rockets fired from the ISIS-controlled Bab district hit the downtown of Kilis. Today, rocket shells fell on the church again. We're having war scenes in a city right now, and it's in the press today. The houses are on fire because of the rocket bullets, and even the mayor of Kilis said: "Thank God we didn't die today. " This incident has now dropped a rocket bullet. This is officially a rocket attack on Turkey from outside its borders. It's not our job to steal battle tampons, of course, but we're sorry to say that all of this happens only in wars. So, what's Turkey doing with all this going on? Apart from the official routine statements, we have so far not heard any reprimands from the AKP Group in the face of these deaths. Why is it that the political will, which brought Turkey to the brink of war and boasted that it was violating the border, remains silent to these rockets? We're waiting for that to come out. If the government's silence is expressed in the voice recording of the alleged MIT Undersecretary Hakan Fidan, I will send four men to Syria, which I will launch eight missiles to Turkey, reminding them of the reasons for war. We're asking if the plan on the record is being carried out. How do you explain the gap between the magnitude of the event and the weakness of the reaction? It turns out the intelligence that ISIS was going to massacre Ankara has come to the security forces in Ankara, and we discussed it here yesterday. How do you want us to think, feel, if this massacre has occurred in spite of intelligence? We ask: What security measures do you take against ISIS? We're giving you questions, and you're not answering them. Similarly, similar concerns were expressed in the report adopted by the European Parliament, which said it would be extradited because it did not suit Turkey. To avoid discussing these concerns, of course, as he always does, there is talk of Armenian genocide in the report.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0362par0261	Do you accept that report? Do you accept the Armenian genocide?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0361par0262	Of course, that was just to cloud the heavy breaches in the report. There's no such imposition in the report. Only the entry part of the report refers to legislation created over the past five years, and there is a reference to the European Parliament's decision made in April 2015. There is also a proposal on Armenians that only Turkey-Ermenistan relations should be improved without any preconditions. And I don't think anyone has any objection to that. Thus, the report voiced concern that, along with all of this, there were no transparent, necessary inspections of claims such as human, historical artifacts, weapons, which crossed the borders of serious security violations on the southern borders.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0362par0264	Report returned.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0361par0265	Indeed, the concerns expressed in the report are happening today, Your Honors. Turkey now has to do whatever it takes to get out of its position as a country that tolerates ISIS. And these rockets aren't exactly the kind of thing you'd pass up with reprimands like that. Whatever these rockets are intended to do, Turkey must take all necessary precautions before it can be played. So, unfortunately, these agreements don't make any sense until all these issues are fulfilled. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0363par0268	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. Now, we're going to do a question-and-answer process for 15 minutes. I'll make a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the system to ask questions within a seven-and-a-half minute. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0364par0272	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a big problem that the Minister of Justice isn't here when such an important law is being passed. Minister, how many ISIS militants are currently in custody in our country? How many are Turkish citizens and how many are foreign nationals? Again, what's the number of parallel judges currently serving? What is the number of parallel judges employed by AKP power? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0365par0277	Mr. Tor...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0366par0278	In the United States, it was found in the media that reportedly admitted that the commission distributed in Turkey was $8.5 billion during the trial process of Babek Zencani, allegedly a close colleague of Reza Sarraf, who was sentenced to death in Iran. Is there any work, any effort at the Ministry of Justice to investigate the issues involved in the statement of Babek Zencani, at the time of the International Bill of Co-operation in Criminal matters? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0365par0280	Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0367par0281	Mr. Secretary, a friend of ours has just asked the Minister of Justice, but the Minister hasn't had the decency to answer, and I expect that courtesy from you. As you know, Iran's Islamic State sentenced Babek Zencani to death and said that during this interrogation he had distributed $8.5 billion in bribes in Turkey, and that one minister had seven parts in a thousand. Did this come up during the Iranian President's visit to Turkey? Have you wondered, who was this bribe distributed to? Would you consider sharing this with the High Council, sir? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0368par0284	Mr. Dogan...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0369par0285	Mr. Secretary, we would like to ask for an explanation of the contribution of the project "Tillo Marriages" to our technology under the 2016 Middle School Research Project Contest.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0368par0286	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0370par0287	I'm asking the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology: 1) What kind of incentive and support do you intend to give to increase investment and production in the field of science and industry? 2) What encouragement and support do you intend to give to increase employment in our country? 3) Do you consider a guarantee of courtship to increase exports? 4) To lower costs in industry and production, do you plan to reset VAT (in energy and natural gas), remove the TRT participation share from all businesses and factories? 5) You paid 1,300 lira minimum, not to burden the so-called employer. Do you think this should be paid in practice without bringing burdens to the employer? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0371par0294	Dear Yfriend...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0372par0295	I won't use it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0371par0296	You've given up... Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0373par0298	Mr. Secretary, a student named Ilayda is presenting a project to the competition at the competitions of this TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK), and this project is not considered worthy of being evaluated in the competition. Later, the same child was the first in the world at the Nobel First Step Awards. But in the same period of prayer, plants that grow by prayer give a student a reward. What do you think when you actually consider this situation scientifically? That's one. Second, what work does TÜBITAK do on the development of scientific projects in universities, the study of university-industrial cooperation? Do you not find the situation that TÜBITAK has been going on for years to come? What's your assessment? Don't you think he's getting away from science? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0374par0301	Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0375par0302	Mr. Secretary, this time I'd like to ask you something about your Ministry. You know, there was a national automobile case that excited us all. Later, from what we can see from the media-released organs, the national car was a knockoff. Can you enlighten us on this matter, sir?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0374par0304	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0376par0305	Mr. Secretary, I've asked you a few times before on the commission. What is Turkey's basic science policy? How do you feel about the state of science today, the state of science? Do you have any idea of restructuring? Do graduates of physics, chemistry, mathematics, biology today have any choice but to become soldiers, police? What do you intend to do to increase that?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0374par0306	Mr. Backup, are you back in the system? Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0377par0308	Yeah. I'd also like to ask the Minister a question: Sustainable energy has become the world's indispensable. When it comes to sustainable energy in Turkey, other substances come to mind, such as domestic coal use and so on, that's what we heard about you on a panel, and we were very upset. At the time, I heard you on a panel as an academic. We understand wind energy, soil energy, solar energy, even fusion energy from sustainable energy.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0378par0310	There's no such energy.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0377par0311	Yes, but you don't know. You don't know, I hope when there is, Turkey will be another...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0378par0312	They're renewable energy.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0379par0313	Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0377par0314	If you'll excuse me, sir, let me ask you a question.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0379par0315	Mr. Backup, please, ask your question.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0377par0316	If you want to hear from me, you'll get it...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0379par0317	Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0377par0318	In that case, Mr. President, you will step in that direction.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0379par0319	You ask your question, I'll do my duty to him, don't remind me of my duty. You do your duty first, please.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0377par0321	I'm doing my job -- when he tells us something -- right?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0379par0322	Okay, I'll give him a heads-up.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0377par0323	But he interrupted me.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0379par0324	Please, ask your question and finish it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0377par0325	So in terms of sustainable energy...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0380par0327	Time's up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0381par0328	Mr. President, we're here.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0382par0329	Congressmans, please. Are you done, Mr. Backup?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0383par0331	I haven't asked yet!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0382par0332	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0383par0333	What does your Ministry of Sustainable Energy really intend to do for the country, for the country, for the nation? With environmental and environmental massacres on the agenda every day and the world talking about climate change, how does your ministry take precautions and what kind of work will they do? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0382par0335	Mr. Mountain...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0384par0336	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Minister, as Izmir MP, we thank the Izmirians for supporting the 5th district, especially on high-tech issues you've done for Izmir. We'd appreciate it if you'd mention the opportunities he has provided to support the 5th district here once again. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0385par0339	Mr. Secretary, please. Mr. President, I thank our fellow lawmakers who have contributed by asking questions. Let me start with technical questions. One of our fellow MPs asked how many people are arrested, convicted for the crime of DAESH? Currently, there are 476 prisoners in the prisons of the Republic of Turkey for the reasons of the DaEŞ terrorist organization, 24 prisoners, 500 people in total arrested and convicted for being members of the DAEŞ terrorist organization and participating in some actions. Let me inform our General Assembly at this point. Another member of parliament, Mr. Erdogan... the judge who was removed from the job due to the Parallel state structure has been discharged from the profession because of the construction of a parallel state at the prosecutor's post.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0386par0343	How many parallel judges are there? I'll tell you what's going on. The number of people suspended is 57. Currently, there are three judges and four prosecutors under arrest. After answering that question that way... Did this come up during Mr. Ruhani's visit to Turkey about Babek Zencani? The question was, what incentives do you offer in the field of science and industry? Turkey has a really intense incentive mechanism for science, industry and technology. First of all, if I'd like to make an example of this, if a young entrepreneur has an idea in particular in the field of technology -- which I'm about to tie to the question of our fellow nation member -- techno access is applying to the Capital Support Program. The evaluation of this programme is conducted by a panel of five academics. If his project is accepted here -- it was $100,000 last year -- we're supporting our student, our young entrepreneur, our technologist, to the tune of $150,000 this year.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0387par0348	Are you being objective, Mr. Secretary? SANAYI AND TEKNOLOJI BASIC INDISTINCT OF COURSE. That's what I'm going to say, the point that we're complaining about is that you're saying that an academic committee of all five people is making an assessment of this. Unfortunately, that's what you said, what you said, Mr. Backupman, isn't it? Yeah. A young girl expressed by Mr. Backup is offering a project to determine the amount of water in the liquid, but unfortunately, our five-member academic delegation doesn't see the value of supporting our young girl's project, it's not worth giving her 100 grand.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0388par0352	Let's lock them up, those academics!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0389par0353	Parallel! Now, let's leave it to you, let the Republican People's Party friends decide, and we'll at least present it to the public. But I'll tell you, it really bothered us, and that's why our daughter is leaving, you know, taking the world's 1st place in Europe. So we said, as the Ministry, that there's something wrong with it. If one of our younger brothers, one of our academics, is getting more than 70 points out of three of the five academic delegations, let this project be supported no matter what the other two academics give a grade. Two: In every project, in every panel, there are some teachers that we call zero instructors, and don't invite zero teachers to the panels. We have to get through this now.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0390par0357	Who decides that, Mr. Secretary? I'm not sure I'm going to be able to get them out of the academic pool.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0391par0359	Mr. Secretary, is there a pool there too? Friends, this is certainly not a political event, but there is a mechanism in that mechanism that has been in its field for years.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0390par0361	IN recent years, TÜBITAK has been far away from science. NO, I'll tell you this: the last few years in the history of TÜBITAK, especially in the history of science. Especially after I've done this parallel cleaning...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0392par0363	And don't let one of them clean up for you, Mr. Secretary! INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY FICI EFFECTIFY (Developed)...TÜBITAK is doing serious projects in both the defence industry and the energy technologies you have just asked about, and very serious achievements are being achieved. Today morning, we sat down with our Minister of Energy, considering the projects that TÜBITAK is conducting with the Ministry of Energy. I'll share some with you. One, Project National Wind Turbine. Right now, the wind turbine is running in Beskoz, and they're running tests. Hopefully, soon we'll be developing a 2.5 megawatt, 98 percent domestic wind turbine and commercializing it...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0393par0366	Is 2% foreign? 2 percent are foreigners, 98 percent are local. There's a very serious partnership here; there's a partnership of TÜBITAK, there's a partnership of MAM, the Institute of Energy, our universities. For example, our national solar energy system, the MILGES Project, is now in the process of implementing it. That the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Energy, the TUBITAK, and... Why didn't we take 98% of ours, Mr. Secretary? It's probably a technical material, which isn't produced in Turkey, and it's not very important to produce. But since we've been over it this morning, I can easily tell you that we're setting up a 10-megawatt solar plant at the MillGES Project, setting up a solar panel field. And, hopefully, we'll soon build a 3,000-megawatt solar plant at the Conium Carpınar. Our national thermal power plant project is under way. See, we're continuing our national projects on the creation of diesel fuel from national, low monthane coals. We're still working on our own SCADA system. I hope so. INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGI FIC - All of this, at the moment, works by TÜBITAK with its own resources and public-sponsored projects. TUBITAK, at this moment, is fully focused on science, so don't hesitate. I'll tell you something about the domestic car project: we're going very ambitious, we're doing a very serious study. You'll see, hopefully, Turkey has its own national operating system in 2019, its electric and range extended... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] - Mr. President, just a few more minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0394par0376	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0395par0377	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you an additional minute. INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGI FIGURE FIFTH -- Turkey will launch its answer, and Turkey will become an ambitious country in new generations of technologies. Right now, we're working very hard at this point. We're working on car design from one side, and we're trying to adapt the technology that TÜBITAK (TBITAK) and Turkey have to adapt to the domestic car, to the national car. We have a serious technological savings from the defense industry here, and now we're transferring this technological savings into the automobile. Why? See, dear friends, in the next few years, 70 percent of the parts used in the automobile today will never be used.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0396par0379	That's common knowledge, of course. This is very, very important. Why is it so important? Turkey is an ambitious country in the automotive side industry. If this new generation of technologies, new technologies, if Turkey adapts now, we're open, but if we miss the train as usual, then we can expect a serious crisis in the automotive industry in Turkey. From this point of view, I hope you'll have the details next week...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0397par0382	Mr. President, this is important.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0398par0383	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0396par0384	I think he should.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0399par0385	Give him, give him a minute or two, and let him answer our questions. Mr. President, hopefully next week, we'll talk about the patent law in our commission, here and in the General Assembly, but let me tell you this very clearly:
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0400par0387	We care what the Minister says, please...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0401par0388	Yes, please turn it up so we can hear it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0402par0389	We've heard it, Mr. President. Our Minister before, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0401par0390	We couldn't listen. Do the blind and the deaf hold each other, so let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0403par0391	Congressmans, please... Mr. Secretary, I'll give you one more minute to wrap this up, please. From now on, I'm going to ask these friends who interfere with every transaction I make! Turkey will produce and you will see, hopefully, we will take a Turkish brand to the world.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0404par0396	Hopefully, hopefully, it won't go back to the Jet Fadils!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0405par0397	Inshallah, inshallah. INTERVIEWING, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOJI We'll share information from time to time. I, too, will be fortunate to offer information about this often to our House, I hope. Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0406par0401	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0405par0402	Our country's achievements are our pride.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0407par0403	Don't let it go back to signing.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0408par0404	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0405par0405	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0409par0406	Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose the addition of the declaration signed by the International Adjective Co-operation Act on 278 rows in which it is signed, following the declaration of Article 1 of Article 3 of Article III. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir Baki Simsek Kamil Aydın Mehmet Erdoğan Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that international agreements shall be changed into international agreements in the article (3) of Article 1 of the International Judicial Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278. Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Tahsin Tarhan Selina Doğan Mehmet Gökdağ The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Meral Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Ahmet Yıldırım First speaker on the same motions... we'll ask the Commission...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0410par0428	Of course you're tired.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0409par0429	We're getting tired like everybody else. Does the Commission participate in the following, recent motions being read?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0411par0431	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0409par0432	Government? We can't participate, Mr. President. The first speaker on the same proposals will be Adana MP Coral Danış Beştaş. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0412par0437	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish you all the best at this hour of the night. Now, I would like to briefly express my thoughts on the earlier discussion rather than on the 1st article.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0413par0439	Talk about matter, matter, matter.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0412par0440	We also have a few words about the Minister of Justice's statement on judicial and control mechanisms. Every day, though, but I hope we'll all find our way back to Turkey. Now, Mr. President, of course, I know your work in women's field, and I'm aware of your sensitivity to this, but we really know that in this Parliament, we live and testify that Turkey has a very bad report card in the international arena in the area of violence against women, rape against women, equal work, equal employment, employment, and many other topics. We, the People's Democratic Party, have repeatedly stated that we have pioneered in the field of women's rights -- in the field of women's representation -- by apologizing to women's friends -- and in this regard, we will not make any compromises in the field of women. We'll only be happy to see the female rate rise in other parliamentary groups. We -- the vice presidents -- we consider it an honor to work with our female friends at any status, in any representation, and we certainly wish to meet at the minimum women's association on everything. And we've called for a common position from this stand -- just me -- in injustices against women, in lawlessness, violence, and inequality -- and we're repeating that call. We'd like to say once again that there are dozens of topics that we can meet on the women's axis, leaving no institution, even our political parties, under suspicion. If, indeed, you think we're going to declare the AKP or the ruling party a women's liberator because the deputy speaker is a woman, then you're wrong. I mean, it's just... we can be in certain positions, but the important thing is, from a woman's point of view, how much we hold on to the policies that really predate women's freedom, and how we fight it. Also, Mr. Group Vice President, I think she questioned my female sensibilities, looked at the transcripts. I mean, we're really denying that. We never let ourselves talk about women's sensibilities, and I don't think you should ever say that again. Look at our history, look at our practice, and let's talk about it accordingly. We're just talking about the facts here. And Mr. Justice Minister, on the other hand, on the one hand, it's a really -- it's a very long issue -- you're going to suspend the Constitution, you're not going to answer the questions, you're going to reject the parliamentary research based on your own majority, you're going to reject the genes by raising your hand to the majority, and then you're going to say, "Well, I'm using this concept a lot, but let's all of us go into the system of power." But the one who doesn't see it, not the pluralist, who has the majority understanding, comes in with the number of fingers, just votes, goes out, and then doesn't function. So I did it, I found it myself. Like, they almost expect us to be sad. I mean, no one really pays any attention to those excuses anymore, so it's just funny, but it can be funny. Right now, in parliament, majority, repressive and entirely on its own basis, I make the law I want, I make the law according to the number of MPs I want, I reject the motion to investigate the Ensar Foundation with my own votes, then I accept the motion to investigate the same motion on the reaction of public opinion the next day, which I did not agree to what the opposition said. We are aware of that, and Turkey is aware of that. I'd like to bring this to your attention once again. I bid you all good night.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0414par0446	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş. My situation is not available at the moment, but I wish to always discuss the struggle for women's rights under equal circumstances.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0412par0448	We'll talk, we're ready.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0414par0449	The speaker on the other proposal will be Eskişehir MP Cemal Okan Yüksel. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0415par0452	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I bid everyone good night. Before I begin, Mr. Bakir probably doesn't care much about this bill - Mr. Secretary - he's gone. Actually, I'd like to tell you to your face, but Mr. Bekir, unfortunately, has misinformation the General Assembly. In my speech on all of the law, the Minister of Justice is positioned above the judiciary, and there is a clause that will instruct the judiciary. When I said, he came, and read the relevant clause of the bill, and I read it as follows: He said, "Look, the judge is out of his jurisdiction." I'm not... He can accept the conditions set forth by the states and give the required assurances.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0416par0454	Or...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0415par0455	He's finished, he hasn't read the rest, and I'll read the rest: the conditions accepted by the Central Court or the assurances are connected to the federal authorities. Now, there are too many powers in this bill. Coroner's cooperation... And he said, "This is very important, and it's important for the information that we're going to get from foreign countries." And, E, you have to ask, there's been a trial in the Islamic Republic of Iran. A man, the father of black money, was sentenced to death, and he shall be hanged in Tehran Square. In his statement to the court, this man said: "In Turkey, we have distributed $8.5 billion in bribes. " He even named one minister and said that his share was -- that of which it was -- was seven in a thousand. I wonder, Your Honor, if you have a claim in your courts that there is such a network of bribes in my country. Did he ask you to send these files to me? Did he ask you to send them to me?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0417par0457	That's a lie.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0415par0458	Or did he know it was real and not want it because he wasn't worried? There's a clause again, which gives the Central Minister of Justice a warrant. Here, very large, national security, and so on and so forth, he says that if he needs to, he can turn down the demand for judicial cooperation from foreign states. We were thinking about Reza Sarraf at first, so when the U.S. Attorney asked us to, we probably said they didn't want to give us that information. It's about the law...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0418par0460	Read the 11th article, the 11th article contains the answer.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0415par0461	Of course, it's half past midnight, and you're bored with this technical stuff, so I'll cheer you up at this hour. Now, just now -- a political -- in my speech with the PKK on the solution process -- I came up with a joke: a brothel owner in a town across from a mosque decides to build a brothel there. The mosque congregation has a right to rise up: What a job! But they can't do anything legally, because the land man has a license. The man begins to build, and the mosque congregation always curses after his prayer: "O my God! Not this building, let it fall down. In front of the mosque is there a brothel. They pray, they pray, they pray, they pray; the building becomes the first floor; they pray on the second floor; they pray on the third floor. The building ends, last night there's a storm, a rain, lightning, and the building falls to the ground. The brothel boss appeals to the court, they pray so much, our building collapses on our heads. I've got this much damage, so let's make it up to this community of mosques.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0419par0462	Where is this happening?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0415par0463	The joke, the joke... it doesn't happen anywhere. The mosque congregation also appeals to the court, saying: "Whu, will this place be destroyed by our prayer?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0420par0465	You don't have to tell me that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0421par0466	Don't tell stories here. This isn't a place to tell jokes, this is Congress.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0415par0467	The judge looks at the file and says, "Ya, we're in a very strange situation. There's a brothel boss who believes in the power of prayer and a community that doesn't believe in the power of prayer.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0422par0468	Which one's the main opposition here?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0423par0469	Look in the mirror, in the mirror.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0415par0470	You say the national will, you say the parliament. You have the majority of Parliament that will change the law, the majority that will solve Turkey's problems, you don't believe in the power of Parliament. So we say we don't do this solution behind closed doors, let's do it in Parliament. But you have the majority; you don't believe in the power of Parliament, we believe in the power of Parliament. There's no telling what it'll end up like. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0424par0473	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0425par0474	Mr. President, after this, let's call off the negotiations at twelve, and after twelve, it's getting out of hand.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0424par0475	I submit the same motions to your votes:
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0426par0476	I demand a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0424par0477	All right, I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, there are no motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose the addition of the declaration signed by the International Adjective Co-operation Act on 278 rows in which it is signed after the declaration of Article 1 (3) of Article 1 of Article 1 of the Criminal Co-operation Act. Mehmet Erdoğan (Muğla) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0427par0484	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0424par0485	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr Mehmet Erdogan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0428par0490	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the motion we have submitted in Article 1 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. I'd like to start by wishing God's mercy and condolences to our two soldiers who were killed during operations in Şırnak today, and also to all four of our soldiers who were injured in the same operation. Mr. Secretary, of course, here, you don't understand the questions we're asking, you don't listen, you don't understand the ones you're with, they don't listen. I'd like to repeat the question I've asked you -- get from the bench. You either don't take our questions seriously or you don't want to answer them. If you do not want to answer, change the Civil Code, remove this question-answer or answer correctly.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0429par0493	How else do we respond? You offer, we accept.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0428par0494	Because the question we're asking is a technical question. I mean, it's not like he's gonna go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and I said, how many ISIS militants are currently imprisoned in our country? And how many of them are Turkish citizens, how many are citizens of other countries? You said the number of prisoners, the number of prisoners, but you didn't say how many are Turkish citizens, how many are citizens of other countries. It's in your records. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Second, the AKP government shouts: "We are fighting the parallels day and night. "The AKP (AKP) has taken over the judiciary." Every day, it shouts.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0430par0498	He's got you, he's got you!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0428par0499	And I'm asking, how many judges and prosecutors are parallelists in the judiciary right now? How much of this did you appoint? Why don't you answer that?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0431par0501	Mr. Erdogan, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0432par0502	Ask the judges in the court!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0431par0503	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0433par0504	You didn't take them into judgment, you did! You did this with the 2010 referendum.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0432par0505	Calm down, man!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0431par0506	Mr. Erdogan, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0433par0507	This is your doing, and you will answer for it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0431par0509	Mr. Erdogan, please...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0434par0510	Don't lie, calm down!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0435par0511	They're checking you out, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0431par0512	Congressmans, let's hear from the speaker.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0436par0513	They know who's gonna pay the bill. You will pay for it in this world and in the next.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0437par0514	There's nothing we can't do, thank God.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0436par0515	Now, in the meantime, what is the purpose of the bill we're discussing? Mr. Davutoglu says we'll get a visa from the European Union. The rest is not important. This is the law we met last week, and this is what we'll see next week. What are you going to do? You'll use it in domestic politics. But today Turkey has serious problems, Turkey has been fighting terrorism for thirty years.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0438par0516	Let's go with you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0436par0517	You go wherever you want, brother, we have a home. But I'm going to ask you this: over 30 years, Turkey is fighting terrorism; what work will you allow the countries of the European Union to accept in this field so far, using your experience in fighting terrorism? Europe has kept many terrorists there against Turkey, embraced them, and how many of them will you be able to bring to Turkey after that law, and how many of them will you be able to prosecute?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0438par0519	Don't let the State Garden hear it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0436par0520	Or at work, how much of the ISIS militants they sent to Iraq, Syria to get rid of Europe, how much of the man you arrested and judged with this law will you be able to send back to Europe? What are you going to do tomorrow if these ISIS militants, like other terrorist organizations in the past, make our prisons a training ground for themselves? Does the Department of Justice have any preparation, any work on it? While such a serious law is being discussed, the Minister of Justice is walking out of here; at least if you had put in the Minister of the Forest, we would have discussed it under forest law. So, friends, consider this with my mind. Again, many countries in which you collaborated, particularly the United States, Britain, Israel and Germany, have declared our country unsecured, and have urged the return of their own citizens in our country and their citizens not to come to Turkey. How are you going to cooperate with the countries that have put Turkey in so much trouble, Mr. Secretary? Do you believe you can do that? When this law comes out, what problem will Turkey have in this area to resolve? I salute you all at this hour of the night with these feelings. I hope it's for the best.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0439par0524	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0440par0525	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0441par0526	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0439par0527	We've got enough to decide... I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 2 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the International Adli Co-operation Act (a) be replaced by the "description" of the article (1) (a) in the current criminal issues. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "international" (a) of Article 2 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act (1) (a) be replaced by the word "international" (nationally) in the current criminal issues. Çağlar Demirel İdris Balaken Merkel Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Behçet Yıldırım Ahmet Yıldırım Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Article 2 of the International Code of Adli co-operation (b) be replaced as Minister of Justice's office: Central Court of Justice: HSYK (HSYK). Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Tahsin Tarhan Selina Doğan Mehmet Gökdağ Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0442par0552	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0439par0553	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Gaziantep MP Mehmet Gökdağ will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Gökdağ.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0443par0558	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 2nd Amendment of the International Criminal Co-operation Act. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the bill that we're negotiating, the bill that concerns a lot of international contracts, is the related bill. We are in a hurry to pass such a bill without making the necessary call, without meeting with various NGOs. Look, let me read to you some of the contracts concerning this bill: the Adliical Aid in Punishments European Convention, the European Convention on Restitution of Criminals, the European Convention on Transcriminals, the European Convention on Transnational Value of Criminals, the European Convention on Criminal Courts; there is -- there is more -- 15-20 contracts that concern it. Now, we've reduced the bill for such a large contract to 38 articles, dear friends. The bill, which had 200 articles in the previous bill, was reduced to 38 articles. What did we do with the rest? We left the rest to the Justice Department regulations. Dear friends, look, in a matter of such importance, such as international cooperation, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must determine which procedures, how, under what circumstances, within which limits it will co-operate, within which limits it will be allowed to co-operate. The issues left to the regulation should be technical issues. In accordance with this rule, it is against the rule of law to give the executive body a general and uncertain regulation authority on matters envisioned in the Constitution. The management's authority to regulate is limited, complementary and dependent. Therefore, apart from the separate conditions envisioned in the Constitution, it cannot be authorized to enforce a general rule of law in an area not regulated by law. This is against the 7th Amendment of the Constitution. You deliberately insist on doing so. Just now, the Minister of Justice said that you have the right to such a thing, that there may be a regulation. Yes, the regulations can be enforced, but under the circumstances. If such an application is to be done, we don't need 38 articles, so let's write the first article of the law, and then we'll call it the Ministry of Justice's regulations. Let's just say, "What's the need for all this talk, subcommittances, commissions?" Let's get the Justice Department to set it all up with regulations. Guys, this isn't the right way. This method is also contrary to the Constitution, and against the principle of lawmaking. A moment ago, the deputy chief of the group counted the incident here in Karaman. He said: "The commission has been established, this has been done, this has been done." At the end, he said, "Responsibility is necessary." Dear friends, that commission has been decided because of public pressure, because of the pressures here. Do you know when your true sincerity will come out? I have no knowledge of the dorms in Karaman. The governor said that the Karaman governor, who appeared in the newspapers today, helped them. If you do anything about that Governor, that National Education Director, we'll know if you're sincere, dear friends. (CHP cheers) So, don't limit intimacy to a word, intimacy to drain the swamp. How many dorms are there in this country, like this one, do you do research on these dorms, do you or do you not investigate the governors who condone it or not? Let's face it, let's see your sincerity. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0444par0565	Thank you, Mr. Gökdağ. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "international" (a) of Article 2 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act (1) (a) be replaced by the word "international" (nationally) in the current criminal issues. Burcu Çelik Özkan (Mush) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0445par0572	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0444par0573	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Muş MP Burcu Çelik Özkan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0446par0578	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in fact, at this time of night, we'd like to talk to you about much more promising issues, cases, but unfortunately we haven't been able to work out a policy or politics in our country, and we're not in this kind of environment. Now, actually, if you look at the bill that's been coming in to the General Assembly for a long time, it's not exactly a subcommittee. We've all been involved in commission work, and we've explained over and over here that, as a representative of the Justice Department, as well as that I have been part of both the Human Rights Commission and as a member of the Department of Justice closely following the proposals, as well as in the General Commission's work, the finger account and the bill were transferred to the General Assembly. Now, it's obvious that the infrastructure of a system is being created. This could be the European Union integration process, visa exemption, etcetera. However, we, I think, act without thinking about our children, our young people and our future. Here today, just so that the law can be legalized, the laws that we spend quickly in order to continue a certain process, I'm sure, within a year, two years from now, there are many issues that need to be re-opened, to be discussed, to be discussed, to be discussed. Now, this bill that we're talking about right now, it's one-on-one with the Department of Justice. The Minister of Justice isn't here. We just had a conversation between him and the General Assembly. Look, I'd like to talk to you today about violations in prisons, political genocides, children who have to stay in prisons with their mothers at this time of night. Dear friends, this conflicting process that has been going on in the country for seven or eight months is now happening in prisons in the same direction. The prison administration and its staff, as if it were a government, as if it were a government -- I tell you -- if you want to listen, if you have some respect -- have taken control of the prisons, in the same way as the ongoing policies, and continue to make a very serious threat and discrimination against political prisoners and prisoners. Look, it's not just our opinion, we visited Tekirdağ and Copperville Prisons two weeks ago as the Human Rights Commission. We've identified the irregularities there, the heavy violations, the commission of all party groups, one-on-one; they'll be reported, of course, but while we're still sitting here, there are still violations going on here as we talk about them. Reverse handcuffs, naked search, naked in blue rooms, starving, battery, violence due to clothing, verbal and physical torture aside. On the other hand, we have a problem called sick prisoners, sick prisoners, and prisoners. It's not much of a solution, but it's a subject where the solution process continues a year ago, and right now there's an emergency, look, at the point of death, where there's a total of 800, patients, inmates, and convicts who are at the point of death, to a degree of 300. The ideological policies on this matter, the different opinions of party groups, etcetera, everything on one side, human, conscientious, and legally, must be brought to light and released of the sick prisoners. Besides, I won't be able to get past Mother Sise. It happened in Mukh. It happened in the city where I was a deputy. Sise Ana is a 77-year-old mother and is currently in prison today because of her membership in the organization. I'll leave that to the conscience of the entire Parliament, the entire General Assembly. Good night to you all again.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0447par0588	Thank you, Mr. Steel Özkan. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0448par0590	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0447par0591	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the International Adli Co-operation Act (a) be replaced by the "description" of the article (1) (a) in the current criminal issues. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0449par0598	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0447par0599	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0450par0601	Motive...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0447par0602	I'm reading the reason: It is foreseen that the provision of matter should be made clearer and more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of Article 3 of the International Adli Co-operation Act (2) of Article 278 in the current criminal matters shall be replaced as,,,,,,, connected at the end of the third joke. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 3 (4) of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278, in the following way. Cemal Okan Ascen Musa Pine Tulip Tahsin Tarhan Omar Süha Aldan Selina Doğan The Central Office can accept or provide the required assurance of conditions imposed by governments, except for the issues under judicial authority. Circumstances or guarantees adopted by the Central Court are taken into consideration by the judicial authorities. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the sentence of the sentence of the criminal authorities be removed from the text of the substance of the sentence. Çağlar Demirel İdris Balaken Merkel Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Behçet Yıldırım Ahmet Yıldırım Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0451par0632	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0447par0633	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on the motion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0452par0638	Mr. President, I've made a promise to you on Article 3 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278. I salute you all. Dear friends, there is no doubt that the most basic guarantee that every person, whether a citizen of a concerned country or a citizen of a foreign country is in fact needed by all people, is a judge's guarantee in terms of international law, so it is a judicial guarantee. Therefore, the greatest guarantee of judicial or judicial security is neutral and independent courts. Therefore, as in terms of domestic legislation, it is important that individuals or individuals are not deprived of the guarantee of justice, as well as of international contracts and this bill that comes before us. So, when we examine this bill and the third article, the first joke of Article 3 of Article 3 clearly handed over the jurisdiction as a central authority to the Ministry of Justice. If a person is returned to a concerned country or a Turkish citizen is found in a foreign country, the extradition of this to Turkey is subject to political debates that are entirely political adult. So, political power, let's assume that if an individual who committed a crime in Turkey is in a foreign country, and the extradition of that Turkish citizen to Turkey will harm political interests in political or economic or financial terms, in this case, the Ministry of Justice can reject, stop, or, contrary to universal rule of law, a person who is alleged to be a person of interest in Turkey will be returned to the country in a way that is contrary to its fundamental rule of law, even if the judiciary has decided. We see this clearly in the fourth joke of the article (4). According to the fourth joke, the Central Court can accept conditions that have been put forward by the states, except for the issues that are under judicial authority. He now, of course, adds immediately that the decision he will make will be tied to the judiciary. Now, how do we determine the limits of whether or not the central justice ministry's decision here is within the jurisdiction or if there is a jurisdiction that concerns the judiciary? A guarantee from the Central Office or from the Constitutional Court will be binding all judicial authorities directly from the lowest level of the judiciary to the Supreme Court. More importantly, the relevant individual cannot go on trial for these decisions made by the Ministry of Justice by this authority. So a foreign citizen, whether guilty or not guilty, would not have taken advantage of the judicial security of the Turkish judicial system, following the decision by the Ministry of Justice to extradite him. The step-by-step transfer of this judicial authority to political power is not only by this law, you know, the law of business security in the past, but by the decision taken by the General Directorate of Punishments and Tevkifevs, for example, by the trial of prisoners in prisons far from the judiciary through the SEGBIS system, or by the transfer of authority over freezing property in last week's 273 rows to the Finance Ministry. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0453par0643	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 3 (4) of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278, in the following way. Omar Suha Aldan (Mugla) and his friends The Central Office can accept or provide the required assurance of conditions imposed by governments, except for the issues under judicial authority. Circumstances or guarantees adopted by the Central Court are taken into consideration by the judicial authorities. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0454par0651	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0453par0652	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Ömer Süha Aldan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Aldan.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0455par0657	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 3 of the International Adjective Co-operation Act on Criminal Issues 278. In this article, it is the fourth and (6) number of jokes that matter. (4) The fourth joke has just been reassessed, but it's a good thing to think about it: other than the issues of the Central Court -- which is the Ministry of Justice -- that's a matter of judicial authority. ..he can accept the terms or give the required guarantees. He says, and after the joke, the terms or guarantees accepted by the Central Court are binding. The joke is completed. For one thing, it's a direct intervention in the judiciary. According to our constitution, judicial authorities do not receive instructions from anyone. Judiciary authorities are the ones who must be fully independent when doing their duty. At this point, where we come from -- even if it doesn't cover their judicial activities -- it's really against the Constitution to have the Ministry of Justice put in the position of high office giving orders to the courts. This joke is contrary to the Constitution and is an arrangement that must be cancelled. We have asked that the statement be given by the authorities, both in the Commission and in our current proposal for change in this matter. A second point (6) is a joke. (6) The 6th joke is that if there is an open disproportionateness between the work, the overtime, and the expense of the demand for legal co-operation to be carried out, or if there is a government's failure to carry out the process, the Central Office can reverse the request. It is in the form of a direct intervention in the court's will. The Ministry of Justice has the right to dismiss a court's request as arbitrary, which would really be contrary to the Constitution. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this arrangement we're actually discussing is in a sense one of the tools to open the door for free movement in the European Union. As a matter of fact, in the coming days, we will try to legislate some of these arrangements, not only from the Justice Commission, but from other commissions as well. At this point, it is our duty, of course, to help with this, but if the regulations are against our basic legal understanding, if the Constitution is against the state traditions of Turkey, of course, we will object. In addition, we will oppose regulations that limit basic rights and freedoms, which, in fact, appear to be seen as a space of freedom and limiting them. But I find it useful to point out that we're actually coming up with a formal approach to the European Union, but we're getting away from the European Union every day, so it's important not to ignore that. We can take these legal regulations out, one by one on paper, and we can take them out side by side, but let's not forget that, from an understanding, from a point of view, Turkey began to withdraw from Europe, from the Council of Europe, from membership in the European Union every day. We're getting away, we don't know that. Turkey is heading towards a moment when the European Union becomes a country that prepares every reason to close the door. Turkey is on its way to an unknown point in the hands of an authoritarian understanding. What needs to be done here reminds you of certain things for us. Such an arrangement is accepted in the House. This session will end in Article 3 and Parliament is now completely empty. If you disable this House, if you cause it to be dysfunctional, as a congressman, one day when you're faced with an understanding you least expect, you'll have no voice, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0456par0665	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of Article 3 of the International Adli Co-operation Act (2) of Article 278 in the current criminal matters shall be replaced as,,,,,,, connected at the end of the third joke. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0457par0672	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0456par0673	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. [[Reporter Nevşehir MP Mustafa Elgöz has started reading the reason]] ▪ Fulfilling a formal request for co-operation in case there is no legal or actual recrimination between the foreign state and Turkey...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0458par0679	Motion to change the word, accept one motion.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0459par0680	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0456par0681	Yes, go ahead, please. [[Clerk Member Nevşehir MP Mustafa Elgöz continues to read the reason]] It depends on the commitment of the other country that it will do so.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0460par0684	And [mention, O Muhammad], when We made a covenant with you, that We should not ask you for [a sufficient] number [of] matters.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0461par0685	Let's take it in writing, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0456par0686	Congressmans, you're tired, and I'm tired, so let's get this over with. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0462par0688	Mr. President, your honor!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0463par0689	Sustained, sir. Sustained.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0464par0690	Sustained, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0465par0691	We've asked for the number of decisions, Mr. President, we've asked for them!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0466par0692	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0465par0693	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0467par0694	How did he ask for it?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0468par0695	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Presidents, those in favor... you said.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0467par0696	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Mr. President, those in favor... you said.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0469par0697	Take a break, take a look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0470par0698	I don't understand!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0469par0699	Take a break, we'll take a look at the records.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0470par0700	The decision asked for a sufficient number.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0471par0702	No way, we won't let that happen!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0470par0703	Okay. All those in favor, let's count.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0472par0705	Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0473par0706	We've asked for a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0474par0707	Mr. President, we've asked for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0475par0708	Mr. President, we've asked for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0476par0709	You didn't want it, where did you want it?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0477par0710	Please check the records. Look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0478par0711	There are 23 of them.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0479par0712	You asked after the vote, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit09spe0480par0713	However, lawmakers, the decision has been asked to be sufficient. [[Noises from CHP, HDP and MPP rows]] I'll take a look at the records. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0480par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I will submit to your votes the motion submitted by İstanbul MP Ismail Faruk Aksu and his friends on Article 3 of the Law Bill 278, and I will call for a sufficient number of decisions because there is a sufficient demand in the minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0481par0003	Mr. President, once, now, you can't continue this procedure in a place where there's no government and no Commission. Secondly...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0480par0004	Mr. Special, I have an answer for the first one. Yeah, what's the second?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0481par0006	Second of all, Mr. Bulent Turan just called the number of decisions enough, and you didn't hear it or think it was necessary; it's not true, but you probably didn't hear it and you started to process it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0482par0007	Well, he did.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0481par0008	It's happened many times before. Sometimes because we were late, sometimes because our voice didn't reach you, sometimes because you didn't hear it, but I started to process it, the next time you did it. Now, I've been asked to go back to the report, and I didn't call, but now I'm going to vote again, and I'm going to call the number." It's not right to say that. Instead of continuing this procedure here, where the Commission and the government are not already in place, the vote will be held again if it stays tomorrow.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0482par0010	All right, leave it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0481par0011	But the other, clearly, will result in your lack of proper use of your authority at this time of night, and not being just. We can't make that up to you, and the ruling party doesn't need that. It's the end of the night anyway. But if that attitude persists, we'll have to talk about that attitude, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0483par0012	Mr. Akçay, let me listen to you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0484par0013	Mr. President, this Civil Code is about to be enforced, and it's against procedure. The fact that you haven't heard the demand for a sufficient number of decisions is reason enough not to do so. You probably haven't heard, because I haven't heard of him as Deputy Director of the Group, but if you've looked at the reports, I haven't heard of him at work, so I've looked at the reports, and I'm going to vote.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0481par0014	We'll do it all the time, then, I'll always sit down and decide one thing towards the end.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0484par0015	And here's the thing: if the door is open, there's no attempt to enter through the chimney. So the ruling party has enough majority, so there's no need to lose too much sadness and complexes at this time of night. Let's not push it. This motion is accepted. Let's take the rest of the process in this way, with magic and silence, and don't try to get in through the chimney.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0485par0016	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to report to Mr. Special...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0486par0017	Mr. President, I have a request on this matter as well.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0485par0018	Here, I didn't see it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0486par0019	Now, let me put it to you as a group of vice presidents who know exactly what you've done before. Over and over and over, you've started a series of sessions without considering the number of decisions we've made, either because you haven't heard them or because of the noise in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0485par0020	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0486par0021	And we've had objections to those practices. In particular, the performance you demonstrated during the discussion of the domestic security law has long been debated by the entire Turkish public. Now, today, the AKP Group may have asked for the Deputy Chairman, but you have started a process, and you have voted by saying... those who don't accept it... were the ones who didn't.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0487par0024	He didn't do it, he just asked for those who agreed.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0488par0025	I didn't.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0486par0026	Mr. President, you said... you said... those who didn't... you said.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0488par0027	Okay, well, I'm gonna read you the report now, yes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0486par0028	So we think you don't have the luxury of saying, let me take a look at the transcripts, just because the demand came from AKP's deputy group president. If you take such a position, then you will decide not according to the Civil Code, but according to the political party group where the demand has come...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0488par0029	Unacceptable, as a matter of fact, yes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0486par0030	...which means you don't run the General Assembly objectively...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0488par0031	Right.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0486par0032	Which we don't want to rule out.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0488par0033	Thank you. Congressmans, now, I really don't understand what's being discussed here.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0489par0035	May I have a word, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0488par0036	Wait a minute... let me talk to him, and you can talk to him later.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0489par0037	I'd like to tell you about three group vice presidents, if I may.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0488par0038	Now, I didn't hear enough decisions. I said or I said something like that, and you all objected?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0490par0039	We raised our hands.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0491par0040	We objected to the vote.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0488par0041	You objected, and I said, "I'm going to look at the transcripts to solve the problem. Now I'm reading the transcripts:..... our friend is reading them. ▪ Fulfilling the request for judicial cooperation in case there is no legal and non-violence between the foreign state and Turkey... We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0492par0044	Okay, you didn't hear.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0488par0045	Yes, go ahead, please. My friend's reading again, clerk member: ..it depends on the commitment of the other country that it will do so. Mr. Lawmakers, you're tired, and I'm tired; let us finish this. I submit the motion to your votes: We asked for a sufficient number of decisions. Look, it's been asked before.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0493par0052	But on the paper you read earlier...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0494par0053	But, Mr. President, you asked.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0488par0054	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0495par0055	But you didn't look for enough to decide, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0488par0056	Come here, let's see.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0495par0057	You didn't call the number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0496par0058	I didn't hear it. A deputy president who said, "It's a report."
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0495par0059	Why? Because you didn't hear it, and neither did we.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0497par0060	Mr. President, how about... I can't remember if I said I didn't hear it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0498par0062	Yes, go on. You said and you didn't hear it, because it's there.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0499par0063	So, Mr. President, did you or did you not hear?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0497par0064	Look, I'm reading: Mr. MPs, you're tired, and I'm tired; let us finish this.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0498par0065	Come back first.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0497par0066	Before that, Mr. Bulent Turan has already asked for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0500par0067	Then why do you call those who agree?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0501par0068	He wanted to, but you didn't hear him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0502par0069	You've taken a vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0503par0070	But you've started the process, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0504par0071	I haven't started the procedure yet, guys.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0505par0072	You asked those who agreed.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0504par0073	Guys, we've got motive.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0506par0074	Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0507par0075	Those in favor... you said.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0508par0076	You asked those who agreed.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0509par0077	Mr. President, did you ask... those in favor?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0510par0078	Yes, I did.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0509par0079	Well, okay, you're in for a vote.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0510par0080	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0511par0081	The procedure has begun.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0512par0082	So, how come it didn't start?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0510par0083	I'm finishing up a loose end.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0513par0084	Now, once a political party has the right to...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0510par0085	Congressmans, I'm completing a loose end.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0513par0086	Okay.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0510par0087	The fact that the commission isn't here or the government isn't here doesn't stop me from taking this vote. Because it's kind of like, when we get to the number of decisions, and we don't have enough decisions, and when we get back here, we vote first, then we ask the commission, then we ask the government, and then we say, "Well, we're going to pick up where we left off," and that's the way it is.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0514par0088	That's right, that's right, I'd agree with that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0515par0089	Let's vote tomorrow, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0516par0090	You took a vote.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0517par0091	You've taken a vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0518par0092	What is your request?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0516par0093	Mr. President, didn't you just vote?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0518par0094	I didn't.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0516par0095	You did it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0518par0096	I didn't.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0519par0097	How could you not? You just read it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0518par0098	There's unfinished business, lawmakers. Look, here's the report.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0520par0099	Sir, those who don't... those who don't... you said, you left the vote unfinished.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0518par0100	I didn't explain my thinking.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0521par0101	You cut it, you cut it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0520par0102	You left it unfinished.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0518par0103	Please, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0521par0104	You cut it, Mr. President, you cut it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0520par0105	You left the vote unfinished.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0518par0106	I didn't announce the results, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0520par0107	Why didn't you explain?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0522par0108	That means you stop voting every minute you see there's no majority.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0518par0109	I mean, I didn't explain it, so the process was incomplete.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0520par0110	The clerks saw it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0518par0111	Congressmans, do you wish to open a formal debate?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0520par0112	Yes, sir...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0518par0113	Please...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0523par0114	It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0524par0115	Let's vote tomorrow, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0523par0116	No.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0525par0117	It's 2:30, Mr. President, 2:30.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0526par0118	Here, I'm not avoiding it, I think I'm doing it perfectly right and objective, and I don't think I deserve anything that's said.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0527par0119	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0526par0120	Please...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0528par0121	Then, Mr. President, let's continue tomorrow.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0529par0122	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0526par0123	Please... Open up the debate.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0529par0125	We don't have a chance to examine the reports.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0526par0126	Please... Our relationships shouldn't be so thin and so sensitive in a negative way. I'm trying to do the right thing, you're criticizing.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0529par0128	We haven't seen the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0530par0129	Mr. President, in the reports...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0526par0130	Here's the report, read it. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0531par0131	Yes, President, you didn't care because the AKP was in the minority, so you didn't end it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0532par0132	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you, too, if I may.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0526par0133	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0532par0134	I don't have a request. This vote is not a horse and a camel, even if it is tomorrow or today. Neither the motion's acceptance nor rejection is the main thing, but there's a small word difference, it's not a big deal. But for the record, when I started the third article, I visited three group vice presidents. I said, "It's half past two, it's too late. There are meetings in the morning, let's leave everyone concerned, but in return, help me, the decision was enough. Let's not lock up the House."
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0533par0135	Why didn't you want it?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0534par0136	We didn't.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0535par0137	We didn't.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0536par0138	We didn't.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0534par0139	You asked for it!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0537par0140	I'm speaking, sir. Allow me. I'm just saying, Mr. President, for the record. So, the CHP deputy group president sent our dear friend, and I sent our group, and with a humanitarian request, I said, "Let's just end it this way, because it's too late." But then, three so-called friends, I saw them laughing, passing, counting, saying, "Let's do this." They did this despite their promises, despite their commitments.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0538par0144	Oh!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0539par0145	Things got out of hand, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0537par0146	Guys, I'm talking. Listen, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0540par0147	But it's wrong.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0537par0148	I say, whether you accept it or not, vote tomorrow or vote now, but actually the demands of our three groups of vice presidents are the answer to why you haven't been in power in 14 years. [AK PARTY applauds; CHP, HDP and MHP rows noise, applause!] Come on!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0541par0150	You're the best!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0537par0151	It's one thing to expect something out of it, to expect something out of it. Both law and politics are no different from human beings.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0542par0152	Wrong.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0537par0153	It's 2:30 a.m., and I've made this request with the human side.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0543par0154	Yeah, we voted on the motion!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0537par0155	It's all yours, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0543par0156	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0544par0157	Congressmans, there's no such thing as my appreciation here. Look, you've requested a sufficient number of decisions, but you said that while the grounds were being read, Mr. Turan, while the grounds were being read. I'm telling you very clearly, among you, you were laughing there, you were making a joke, and I thought something like that was said in relation to him -- where's the arrest -- so, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0545par0159	There's twice in the reports, Mr. President. I don't know why we're discussing this, guys.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0544par0160	You're tired, and I'm tired, so let us finish this.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0546par0161	All right, let's finish it, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0544par0162	Because he said there was enough to make a decision, but the motive was being read.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0547par0163	We respect your decision, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0544par0164	So I said to him, "Please let's get this over with." I said, "There are enough decisions." I said, laughing, and you all started screaming, "No, there isn't."
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0548par0165	Let's see the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0549par0166	There are reports.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0544par0167	Now, look, we're talking clearly. I said he did, but I laughed again, and you, all of you, the other MPs, the opposition lawmakers, didn't want enough, but you said it was enough. So I said, I'm going to look at the books.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0550par0168	No, he didn't want to, but let's see if there are any reports.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0544par0169	No, no.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0551par0170	No, no, no, no.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0550par0171	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0544par0172	You shouted, and there you had your suitors - your hands raised. We have eyes now, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0550par0173	No, no.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0544par0174	All three of you, three groups, didn't want enough. You said.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0552par0175	Mr. President, the stenographers are here, so, friends, at this time of night...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0553par0176	Mr. President, let's take five, let's leave the vote for tomorrow, it's as simple as that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0544par0177	So I said, since it's the last thing we saw, I'm going to look at the letter, I'm going to look at the report. I looked at the report, the vote isn't over. As long as he wants the Commission, the government not here, this procedure... [[Controversial conversations between CHP and HDP rows]] Mr. Special, we're talking, and then you can continue your conversation.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0554par0180	Sorry.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0544par0181	Mr. Baluken, you too. We're all doing a lot of work here.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0555par0183	We're not chatting, Mr. President, we're talking about your irregularities.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0544par0184	There's no commission, no government, and without that, it's my condition and responsibility to complete this process. But after I make this vote, I'm going to ask them, the Commission and the Government, if not, I can shut down the House. I didn't issue my decision on this vote, I didn't report the results of the vote, what are we discussing here?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0556par0185	Those who didn't agree... you said.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0544par0186	Let's discuss it. Let's discuss it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0557par0187	Don't open it, Mr. President, it's 2:30.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0558par0188	Mr. President, let's take five.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0559par0189	Open up.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0560par0190	Please, I mean, let's really leave it at that, really.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0559par0191	Let's just leave it at that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0561par0192	You didn't see the majority, you interrupted.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0562par0193	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0563par0194	Here you go. Let's talk about this till morning. I don't care.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0562par0196	In particular, we would like to express that we cannot accept the statement made by Mr. Bulent Turan.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0563par0197	I don't know about that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0562par0198	Yes, Mr. Group Vice President came to us, he said he wanted to send the group, but what he asked us to do was to make a decision and not ask for a roll call. Do not vote in the proposals. No request in the form of the HDP Group has been passed on to the other two groups, we do not know.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0564par0199	No.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0565par0200	Let's leave it for tomorrow, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0562par0201	We did not ask for a decision, but it was He who made the decision. Now, here, about your situation, you've started a process. So, Mr. Group Vice President asked, but you either didn't hear it or you didn't pay attention to it, so you started the voting process, those who agreed to it. So, under the regulations of the Civil Code and Parliament, before you finish a procedure that you started, I mean, is there again, or isn't there?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0566par0203	I didn't finish the vote, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0567par0204	You just didn't explain the outcome.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0562par0205	Well, you've started.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0566par0206	I didn't explain the outcome, I didn't finish.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0568par0207	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0562par0208	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0566par0209	Now, all right, members of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0562par0210	We can leave the vote for tomorrow.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0566par0211	I can't, because I have to do this thing, and I don't promise anyone.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0569par0212	Why won't you give it to me?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0570par0213	No, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0566par0214	Congressmans, there's been enough talk.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0569par0215	No, I didn't. That's not possible, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0570par0216	Mr. President, I'm here to inform you...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0566par0217	You can answer him, over.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0570par0218	Yeah, that's what I'm gonna say.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0566par0219	Here, I'll give you a minute, Mr. Akçay, please.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0570par0220	Mr. President, in the speech of Deputy Director Bulent Turan, everything he said, clearly, is true. He came to us. He said, "If you don't want the number, I'll send it." We said, "We'll send it." If you don't want a roll call, fine. All three groups did not violate it. Mr. Bulent Turan can't come to us and offer such a thing anyway, it's disrespectful to Parliament's will to vote for who's there and what's not. Can he come and tell us this? You don't vote in favor of the motion, you use it in our favor. I can't commit anything like this, not as absurd as saying something like that in the name of my group. Bulent Turan accuses us of failing to keep our promise. We weren't going to ask for enough judgment, I wasn't going to ask for it; we were going to do a roll call, I didn't want to. He saw that the motion would be accepted, and the decision would be enough, and he broke the agreement himself. What he does, what he blames us for, is what he does. For a moment, we make mistakes like that, but he won't give it to us. What was I supposed to do? I'm thinking of supporting the motion of the DP, and I'll be back with the AKP Group, because I said I wouldn't want to make a decision, and no one can ask me to vote with them.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0566par0221	There's no need to go there, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0570par0222	I can't commit to anything like that.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0566par0223	Mr. Akçay, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0571par0224	Mr. President, it is not possible and it is not true to accept the words of Mr. Bulent Turan. As we, the Nationalist Movement Party, proposed to the other opposition group's representatives, we agreed that this decision would be enough not to ask for a roll call, and that the next day after the meeting of Article 3 will continue. In fact, we, Mr. President, as the National Movement Party, did not even give speakers in Articles Two and Three. It's just been read and voted on.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0566par0225	You made me read the motive.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0571par0226	We do not violate any promise or agreement on this matter. However, allow and appreciate it so that we can vote yes on our own proposal. So I guess you wouldn't consider that a violation of the agreement.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0572par0227	Give along with HDP (HDP)!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0573par0228	Why is the HDP giving it to you?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0572par0229	Give it to me, all together!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0574par0230	Look at you first!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0575par0231	The HDP knows where to give and what to give.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0576par0232	Furthermore, no party can even suggest how other opposition parties will vote.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0577par0233	Is that what you're saying?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0576par0234	What did he say?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0577par0235	He said, "Give along with the HDP."
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0578par0236	Mr. Akçay, are you done talking?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0576par0237	Who's shameless, get out!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0579par0238	We're gonna ask you?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0576par0239	Shameless! Sloppy...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0580par0240	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0576par0241	Everyone will watch your mouth, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0580par0242	Of course, of course. Why are you yelling at me?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0576par0243	We're having a serious conversation here.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0581par0244	I'm not gonna sit there and...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0580par0245	Mr. Akçay, I'm asking if you're done.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0576par0246	Mr. President, we don't take matters from context to other places. Mr. Bulent Turan carried it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0582par0247	What did we say? What'd you say?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0583par0248	What did you say?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0582par0249	Did we say something? What did we say? How?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0584par0250	Now he's talking. We're dealing with some snarky talk from there. The seriousness of this... let's not get off the subject. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Every party has the right to act on its own will, and everyone has to respect that. We have the Constitution and the Civil Code. There's no mistake made. I repeat, if the door is open, there is no attempt to enter through the chimney, Mr. President. My humble advice: Of course, if the ruling party thinks that the change will also be a problem in legislation, then the solution is also in the Internal Charter.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0585par0251	I'll be back in a little while...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0586par0252	Yeah, he didn't take it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0584par0253	This will be corrected at the meeting tomorrow morning.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0587par0254	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0586par0255	Did he say yes, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0588par0256	Mr. President has agreed. Did he say we should do it again?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0586par0257	There's no such thing. The president has agreed. He didn't say anything.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0589par0258	But you can't ignore the vote.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0590par0259	I didn't vote, Mr. Akchay. I'm reading to you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0589par0260	How could you not, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0591par0261	Those in favor... you said.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0590par0262	In a vote, Mr. Akçay, those who agree... are called...,, those who do not accept..., explain the president's opinion and so it is done, and so it is done. I can't...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0592par0263	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0593par0264	That's what you did.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0590par0265	I didn't do that. I'm reading the transcripts, look...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0594par0266	Result, Mr. President, we're waiting for you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0590par0267	Here's the final chapter of the reports.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0595par0268	Explain the outcome. Those in favor... you said.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0590par0269	I submit the proposal to your votes: I am the one who... says yes.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0595par0270	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0596par0271	All those in favor, more.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0590par0272	Haydar Akar: Mr. President, Mr. President! Free Private: Free Private: Accepted sir, accepted. I mean, how did Erkan Akçay ask for the number of decisions, Mr. President, we asked for the number of decisions? The number of decisions is enough. İdris Baluken: No, no, those who agree... you said... you said President. Those in favor of... I didn't say... those who didn't agree.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0597par0274	It's not over yet.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0590par0275	We want the number of decisions. He's screaming. I've made it clear that I'm not taking this seriously, and you guys... the vote isn't over. I've asked for the number of decisions. It's in the reports. How can I not call?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0598par0276	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0599par0277	Mr. President, please repeat this vote.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0598par0278	Look, those who didn't agree... you said. Maybe that part of the report hasn't arrived yet.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0600par0279	He's here, here, it's all here.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0598par0280	And then... and then, sir...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0600par0281	I didn't.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0598par0282	You've already told your clerks to take a look. Edens, those who don't raise their hands. There...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0600par0283	The vote's not over, it's not over!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0601par0284	Where is he? Where is he? Where is he? No.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0598par0285	You said, "Mr."
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0600par0286	The vote is not over!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0602par0287	Those who did not agree... you said...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0603par0288	Those who agreed did not count. Those who agreed were not asked.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0600par0289	The vote isn't over. Now, if you'll excuse me, how do I take a break after the vote's over or after the vote's over, fellas? I've been here four years, so please.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0604par0290	You took a break right in the middle of it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0605par0291	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0600par0292	I've been here four years. I've been through thousands of law enforcement motions.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0606par0293	Then vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0607par0294	Mr. President, please vote.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0608par0295	That's where this goes from here, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0609par0296	You've completed the procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0607par0297	Take a vote, Mr. President, just call the number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0610par0298	Mr. President, would you vote?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0611par0299	Please...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0612par0300	Mr. President, look, if you do this, that's where this goes from here... we didn't discuss:
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0613par0301	Mr. President, the reports are in order, make the vote, make the decision, call the number!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0612par0302	Who the hell are you? Who are you to give such instructions?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0613par0303	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0614par0304	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to discuss the procedure, I'm here. I'll repeat the vote, make a decision, call the number.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0612par0305	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0614par0306	I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0612par0307	I'm starting a formal debate.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0614par0308	Open up, over. Who's talking? Right now, right now, that's how it's gonna be from now on. Who's talking against you?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0615par0310	Against you.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0614par0311	Against Erkan Akçay. Lehte?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0616par0313	Lehte.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0617par0314	Lehte.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0614par0315	And there was no need to open up the legal debate.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0618par0316	Wow! Give it up!
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0619par0317	Well, you've been insisting since then, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0614par0318	Against Erkan Akçay, in favor of Idris Baluken, against...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0620par0319	Free Special.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0614par0320	Lehte?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0621par0321	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0614par0322	I'm opening up the legal debate. First word against Mr. Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0622par0325	You didn't appreciate the time.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0614par0326	Three minutes, you know.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0622par0327	No, you can give it to me in ten minutes. You have to appreciate the time.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0614par0328	It's really gotten out of hand, so let's all think this through.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0623par0329	Then don't interrupt the vote.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0614par0330	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0624par0333	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. If it's out of control, you can't deny your share of it, Mr. President, so you have to look at it that way. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] I suppose you won't be able to accuse the National Movement Party of voting yes to its own motion. Nor can other parties or lawmakers be criticised for why they voted in this direction. In fact, a fellow member of the ruling party could have given it to us because that's what the Great National Assembly of Turkey is doing. I am seriously offended by the speech of Mr. Turan. Ta, he got it, so until those classic elections, here's what it was, so... let's not get out of the context. What is done here is done, and we will not cease until now, as we have promised. As the Justice and Development Party Group, there was one thing you should have taken care of, which, of course, you should have. If we're going to hit the ratio, the number of nationalist movement parties... Mr. President, dear friends, I say to the esteemed lawmakers of the ruling party: MPs of the ruling party do not care, care for their own bill, your group's initiative and discipline are extremely weak, and I would like to make a general criticism. I mean, maybe you won't admit it, you'll be in trouble, but he's the reason it got out of hand.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0625par0339	We don't accept.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0626par0340	Don't worry, Mr. President, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0627par0341	It's none of your business.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0628par0342	So in this morning's debate or yesterday's session, Mr. Secretary defends himself, speaks, and pays attention, most of the opposition lawmakers who listen to prudence and most of the ruling MPs who don't listen, are walking around. Mr. Secretary here, the ruling party's MP, he's hanging around. We warn Mr. President, then the President warns, that our congressman, our friend, even though he heard, he was stubborn, he wandered around, and he finally came to our place, so he wants to fight with me. There's so much insensitivity. So you should know, perhaps more than we do, that the ruling party MPs -- some of them -- are not paying attention and respect to their own Minister's seniority. So, like I said, if the door's open, there's no need to try to get in through the chimney. Those who don't... those who don't... you said, Mr. President. It's also clear that there are at least four or five more of those who don't agree. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This motion by the National Movement Party has been adopted, Mr. President, please make this assessment. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0629par0347	Mr. President, you don't have to worry about our group, if you need to worry about your own group.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0630par0348	Mr. Akçay, thank you. Mr. Idris Baluken in Poland.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0631par0350	Thank you. Mr. President, of course, we've had to take advantage of your position, of course, but it's not possible to speak in favor of your attitude, because while the established practices in the Civil Code and the Constitution are present, you've been running the General Assembly in the name of the political party where the demand came from, you've been doing it for a long time. In particular, about the number of decisions that are relevant to this discussion today -- there are also friends from the 24th term -- from the opposition party when the law is being discussed -- we ask for the number of members of the group to step ahead of the line, and we ask for the number of decisions. You didn't even consider them at that time. Then there were some background checks, and there were a lot of mistakes that you made there, and a lot of wrong practices. Now, since there's a demand from the ruling party that you started a process here when all this practice was in the middle -- like I said -- I'm going to take a break and look at the transcripts. You've gone into a completely changing attitude, you have no right to do that. Yes, well, when the vice president of the group asks for a sufficient number of decisions, whether you are tired or tired, you need to listen carefully on that bench during the time you were on that Court, and you need to carry out the administration of the General Assembly very seriously. You may not have heard it, it's normal, you may be exhausted. After all, you've started a process, ignoring that request, and you're going to have to finish that process. What we saw was this: Yes, you started to process it. Since the number of lawmakers sitting in opposition ranks was greater than the number of lawmakers sitting in the power rows, and you agreed to it, you came up with a different attitude than an impartial vice president had to do in order not to fall into such a position with your own party in a conflict. Now, of course, the AKP deputy chief of the group has raised some charges, but let's say that no group vice president can vote for another group during the vote of motions. Some AKP MPs are also questioning our vote, and I would like to say that you have no right and no right to vote. HDP is a party that will decide which proposal to vote for by its own initiative, by its will. Your situation is bad, so I'm saying that you've demonstrated once again today, tonight, at this time of night what kind of power you have to refuse to accept a single word change because it's from the opposition. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0632par0357	Thank you, thank you very much, very sincerely thank you. Against you, Mr. Free Private, please.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0633par0360	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're doing a truly amazing job, but no one has the right to be surprised that we're doing this. Because every decision made in Parliament can turn into a very serious established application for the next period. Mr. President, you can insist on your decision in a moment, you can redo the vote, you can go back to the report, you can meet the demand for a sufficient number of decisions. The opposition parties will be most pleased, and you will comfort us. Because -- as Mr. Baluken just said -- even when we say it over and over and over and over and over again, let's stop the report, everybody knows it's on TV, but it's because the presidents say, "I didn't hear it." You do this kind of thing tonight to deal with the AKP Group's problem, we relax, we talk about any motion starting tomorrow, during the speech, while the motion is being read, we put the number of decisions into the report, then we insist on the results of the vote, demand a report, and then you have to renew the vote according to that report, which is your decision. But the problem is, if we're going back to the report, let's go back to the inside report at twelve o'clock at night. I said, as a medic, Mr. Idris joined as a doctor, and after twelve, we said, "It's not right, we're tired, we're worn out." He said, "We'll work three to four, we'll bring 10 articles."
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0634par0362	Three points.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0633par0363	We said, "There's no such thing in Parliament practice." At three o'clock a.m., there's not going to be 10 items, not even four, which is very little. Look what we're talking about here. Let's just say, Mr. President, we're doing a serious job: if you're going to base your transaction on evidence tomorrow, we'll put in front of you a Constitutional Court decision that we don't think is right, which we find unfair, 4+4+4. The minutes of the commission meeting lasted for the first seven days, and then a directive came in, and I hope the friends will finish it this Sunday. He said that the prime minister of the era and the current Minister of National Education, I am studying the head of the National Education Commission of the period. He says, "There is a notice, there is a promise request?" 40 MPs have names; I demand a promise. I demand a promise. It says in the report. The president says, since it doesn't exist, I submit the item to your votes. And they spent the remaining 20 articles behind a barricade under these transcripts. Open the Constitutional Court's decision tomorrow. You know what he says? It's in the report, but the president didn't hear it, and since the president didn't hear it, he's going to continue to do it... He made the decision and was rejected because he didn't consider not doing it to a commissioner of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Now, you, your decision, you make this application, the Constitutional Court's decision will embarrass you a little bit, but, basically, from now on, we'll ask for the number of decisions, we'll make it easier for you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0635par0366	Thank you. Mr. Bulent Turan...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0636par0368	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Yilmaz Bronze, will speak.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0635par0369	Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0637par0371	Mr. President, I've been promised to discuss the procedure, I've taken a pledge in favour of the President's position. I hereby salute the General Assembly at this hour of the night. In fact, we've entered into an unnecessary discussion, and it's clear that the number of decisions required during a motion is enough.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0638par0373	We're all over it, satire.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0637par0374	Yeah, there's been a lot of arguments about that. The decision was requested, not asked. After the discussion, Mr. President said he would review the minutes and decide according to them. When we look at the transcripts, Mr. Bulent Turan, our deputy head of the group, says we want a sufficient number of decisions, and the number of decisions he wants is open in the minutes he wants. Now, what needs to be done from now on, now that we've been asked to keep the vote going, we're going to keep looking for enough to decide. That is the position of the president, and so is the Civil Code, so there is nothing to discuss. The number of decisions was asked, and the vote was started, and the vote was said to those who agreed, and those who did not agree... did not come out of the president's mouth. That's how it is in the reports.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0639par0376	Those who refused... raised their hands.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0640par0377	Let's count it. He says, let's count it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0637par0378	In a process that remains, the president should actually continue after that. You say, "There are countless examples."
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0641par0379	Today's the day, today's the day.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0637par0380	It happened today, too. Mr. Presidents have always wanted the number of decisions by your intervention and after your intervention. Here, the situation is clear, there is nothing to discuss, and the group that wants a sufficient number of decisions is to start the vote again at the request of our vice president, and to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient. Therefore, I would like to point out that your attitude is correct. I say you're in his favour, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0642par0384	Thank you. Congressman, first of all, I want you to know that I'm really sorry. I'm so relaxed, so relaxed. Certainly as you say, there is a difference between the ruling and opposition votes, so let me play a game. Such thoughts never occur to me, nor do I have the ability to play such logic games or cunnings. I don't have that kind of practicality in my mind. I'm perfectly at ease with this, at ease with my conscience. I didn't do that kind of trick. Here's what I'm doing, Mr. Special: there's an inverse meaning here. Yeah, well, sometimes we can just hear the number of decisions, the noise, the distraction, the other job, and when we insist on doing it, we say yes. That's the problem, I've heard it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0643par0387	But you didn't.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0642par0388	But when you objected, I thought I'd look at the transcripts to prove that I heard and was told. That's my contradiction, I've heard it. I'm saying the decision asked for enough, and you're objecting, and believe me, I'm just going to take a look at the books to make you feel better. Because above, Allah is one, and I have heard him say, 'The number of decisions is enough.' Allah is one. Look, we're talking at this time of night, and yet I get unfair criticism.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0644par0389	Then why did you vote?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0642par0390	I didn't vote, the vote isn't over. Let's open the Civil Charter, read Article 141, start with the procedure title of the item in the ballot, and continue with the following: The President would like to raise his hand to those who accept the issue and then refuse to accept it in the situation in which the vote should be put to the vote. Clerk members report their votes to the President after the census of the General Assembly. The vote was announced by the President by the General Assembly, or by the term "not accepted." Where are the following reports accepted? Or is there a statement? Where do you have it?
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0645par0395	Well, since you asked, let's just say...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0646par0396	Let's count it. You said it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0642par0397	I keep thinking...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0645par0398	No, I'm just saying because you asked...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0642par0399	...I'm continuing with my decision.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0645par0400	Okay, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0642par0404	I'm renewing the vote.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0645par0405	No, wait a minute... You're asking...
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0642par0407	I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0645par0408	Look, it's the right thing to do.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0642par0409	I'll call the number of decisions I need.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0647par0410	Let's count it. You said it.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0642par0411	All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0647par0412	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0648par0413	Mr. President, it's the right thing to do.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit10spe0642par0414	There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a two-minute break.
tbmm-2016-04-19sit11spe0642par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu and his friends on Article 3 of Law Bill 278 was not enough in the vote. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a minute off from the merger.
