tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsibility statement belongs to Çanakkale MP Muharrem Manaş, who wanted to mention the 101st anniversary of Çanakkale's victory. Mr. Man, here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the 101st year of the 18 March Sea Victory, a glorious page of the Battle of Çanakkale in history as the battle of the gentiles. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, we Çanakkales wake up every morning looking at the peninsula, starting a new day before our martyrs, we know that we sleep under the same stars, under the same heavens as our martyrs. Every day when we look across the street, we see what brings us together, and we do a comparison between yesterday and today. A hundred years ago in Çanakkale's territory, almost a child's age was struck, and a hundred years later today in the seas of Çanakkale, the dead bodies of Syrian children hit the beach. A hundred and a year ago, when I was singing the Mirrored Market, there were sons who said, "Ana, I'm going." Now there are mothers holding their children's coffins and weeping. Once upon a time there were children who watched his father from the front, and now there are fathers who put his children in coffins and buried them. There were great men in Çanakkale a hundred years ago, a spirit we called the Chanakkale spirit. The spirit of Çanakkale is a brotherhood, dear MPs. Today, let us be together on the earth as they lie in sheep's sheep under the brotherly ground. Like those who sing songs together in the trenches, let's sing songs of brotherhood. Let's stick together while we're alive, just like those who were together on the way to death. The Turk, the Kurd, the Alevi, the Sunni, the Lazkeli, the Circecel, the same rope from one end to the other, the same horon, the same mass. The spirit of Çanakkale is tolerance, respect, peace, precious MPs. It was a respect-making battle, as the poet said, in the poem "Ecevit. " As they got closer, the trenches and the hearts became closer and closer, and the ones who fought became like friends to the ground. There were those who once held the wounded enemy in their arms. Relieve your tears to the mothers who once sent their children into battle from distant lands in this land. Your children are in our arms. They'll be in peace and sound sleep. After they gave their lives in this land, they are now our children. Mustafa Kemal was the one who said. In this most meaningful peace message of history presented to the world by the young Republic of Turkey, foreign soldiers who lay next to Mehmetdjik were now our children. That's why we have important lessons to learn from the spirit of Çanakkale, dear MPs. Let the tolerance of the Chanakkale spirit live together today. Today, no matter what his political opinion is, whether we agree with what he says or disagree with it, we can defend his right to say it. You're from me. Or you're from the enemy. Let's not say you're an enemy, but come whatever you are. Dear MPs, I'd like to share with you some quotes from the 18 March speech of the mayor of Çanakkale, the city of freedom and peace, which was cut off by TRT, and with our nation watching us from this grand bench. I commend the people of Çanakkale and our nation on the tribute of a mayor elected by 55 per cent of the people of Çanakkale to the people of Çanakkale and to the people of Çanakkale, whose speech on the victory of Çanakkale was cut off on public taxes. Again, on March 18th, we saw in Çanakkale that a political party's election slogan was written on the map of Turkey, which was made by students at the ceremony. We must not use the glorious pages of our history to politics in the land where an era sinks, in the land where lessons are learned for peace from war. What we went through on March 18th has shown us that we still, unfortunately, cannot comprehend the spirit of Çanakkale, that we can't absorb it. On the next 18 March, I invite everyone to act in the spirit of Çanakkale. Dear MPs, we as a nation defeated all fears in Çanakkale a hundred years ago. What we need to do today is to crown the secular, independent, free republic left to us by the mighty heroes with democracy, peace with love and tolerance, with the spirit of Çanakkale. With these feelings, I remember the suns that set for a crescent, those who fell for the land, and all our martyrs with gratitude and respect. Hail the glorious Çanakkale. Hail Mustafa Kemal. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Man. The second non-responsive statement belongs to the Ottoman MP Ruhi Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. The words to be said about Çanakkale, the books to be written, the messages to humanity, of course, are abundant, but it is well known to the members of the High Assembly that Çanakkale is a conscience, a spirit. I will briefly present two anecdotes that most of us know about Çanakkale, and I will leave your presence. One of them is the fact that French General Gouraud was able to describe a memory in Çanakkale, a French monument that came for the opening in the 1930s, after the 1920s. I don't want to go into the details of your memory too much, but in the near phase, after a bayonet battle, he describes and describes the relationship between two soldiers who had fallen into the same ditch in the evening. When someone bends his shirt to cure another man's wound by pressing grass into his heart, he gets very impressed and wonders what the soldier is trying to do, and asks the Turkish soldier who treated the enemy, not himself, but the enemy soldier, the French soldier, who treated the old woman, who said, "Why are you making this move?" He says: "He showed me an old woman's picture. I thought it was her mother. Now, even in the environment where General Gouraud speaks of his memory, there is a great flood of emotion, and he tears the Turkish nation into a great, noble nation. Today, we expect Europe to express its confessions in a sincere way concerning human drama. I mean, they can easily be Paris, they can be Madrid, they can be London, but one day we expect them to be Ankara, Istanbul. And we are Brussels today; we curse those who slaughtered civilian citizens in this inhuman massacre in Brussels, and today our conscience can cry Brussels, just like Istanbul, like Ankara. Another anecdote, again, is one of the reporters of the Le Monde newspaper -- a Turkologist -- coming to Turkey to describe a postwar process. When he goes from Ankara to Eskişehir on the train, he sees two children near the train station -- head and arm parts of a sack are cut off. He asks these children: Who are you? Where are you staying? These children are staying close to each other. We live here in a cabin. Who is your mother? Don't you have a father? And we say, "Gazanfer, Muzaffer; come, my son. What generation can we raise these children and give them the same spirit today in a much greater standard of life -- even if we give them their names -- and I thought, yes, in a few institutions, that's what they're given. I was there this year on behalf of my party in connection with the victory events of Çanakkale, and I lived there. After the demonstration of the Turkish Stars, the flight leader, pilot number one, Captain Osman Supreme radio announces that we call the names of our heroes from our planes, the names of the last martyrs in our hearts and in our planes. We have come to Sergeant John, and to Seyit, and to Corporal, and to Nusrat, and to Ariburnu, and to Conkbayri, and to Mustafa Kemal Pasha. We're on watch, we've taken over, and we don't intend to die until we hand it over to the rest of us. Let our presence be a gift to the Turkish presence. He said that the honorable Turkish officer, and we say: "Even though the hearts be glad, the heart must go from the grief of those who go away/ run after them." / Heroism; drinking from the cup of bitter death, and then not returning, I salute you on behalf of my group.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0005par0035	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Çanakkale MP Ayhan Gırrı, who wants to speak about the spirit of Çanakkale. Here you go, Mr. Go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0006par0040	Mr. President, members of law, I salute your grand delegation. Çanakkale is not just a front in World War I. Canakkale is not just a heroic myth. Çanakkale is a historic event that opens the age and closes the era, like the conquest of Istanbul. Çanakkale is the Turkish state's struggle for total existence. The Turkish nation is not an ethnic term; it is the Turkish nation of Pomak, it is the Turkish nation of Çerkek. It is the Turkish nation, it is the Kurdish nation, it is the Turkish nation Roman, it is the Bosnian nation. Which ignorant Mehmet Akif could say that he was an Albanian and not a Turk. Çanakkale is the rebellion of the oppressed peoples against imperialism. Çanakkale, in a sense, is the battle of the East with the West. On March 18th, our young men were together in Turkey. They made it clear by saying, "We are in Turkey." Çanakkale not only changed the good fortune of our nation and our state, but also changed the political history of the world. The Tsarial Russia, without the help of the Allies, has been destroyed, and the world has become a whole new structure. The superpower of the period, England, has dropped its government due to failure. Britain's adjective of the invincible Armada has been shattered. The victory of Çanakkale has begun the struggle for freedom, hope for North Africa, Asia. New Zealanders, Australians, discovered their own national troops after Çanakkale. There are two concepts that give the spirit of Çanakkale: unity and sacrifice. Out of the 81 provinces of Anatolia, from Kerkuk, from Mosul, from Damascus, from Thessaloniki, the Mehmetchiks fought side by side and died together. This land where the martyrs lie is the greatest and most honorable proof of our hundred and one year of union. Çanakkale is where faith triumphs over opportunity. Çanakkale isn't a victory that's been and ended, it's a process that's still going on, it's a struggle that's still going on. The imperialist wars carried out by terrorist organizations are not only our country's problems, but the world's problems today. These terrorists are not even local or isolated movements. These are the imperialists' servants subcontractors. That's why what we need is a total struggle like in Çanakkale, the unity and sacrifice of the Turkish nation. That's what Çanakkale is to us. For this spirit is entrusted to us by the thousands of years we know of Asia Minor and our 2,000-year tradition of state. This spirit was folded in Çanakkale a year ago. The yeast of this spirit is mixed with the blood of our martyrs, our veterans, who have different ethnicities, but shed their blood for the common land. Çanakkale is a place where Mustafa Kemal (a major actor) appeared on the history stage. Mustafa Kemal is Mustafa Kemal, and Mustafa Kemal is Ataturk, and Çanakkale. Here, right here, I'd like to draw your attention to something. Let's see how it was looked at with the spirit of Çanakkale at that time, and how it was developed when an attack on our nation across the street. Everyone knows that Enver Pasha and Mustafa Kemal were not two figures who were very fond of each other at that time. In the battle of Çanakkale, those who wish to interrupt are also complaining about Mustafa Kemal. When Enver Pasha visits the front when he visits to give them a bonus, he goes and hugs Mustafa Kemal, congratulating him, and then he writes a telegram from Mustafa Kemal. You know, when Kazim Karabekir came to Erzurum, he said, "I'm at your command, Pasha, without going to arrest Mustafa Kemal. This maturity was shown a hundred years ago for national defense and national struggle. This is Çanakkale, and this is the spirit of Çanakkale. After the last century, when we think that the mind, the mind, has developed, our only hope of opposition is that they can display maturity, patriotism a hundred years ago, not more, but the maturity shown by Enver Pasha. There's no place in this struggle for personal gain, personal power. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0007par0048	Thank you, Mr. Go. Congressmans, I'd like to say a few words about a series of events that took place during the week we left, and then I'll promise the first ten people to enter the system, and I'll also promise the group's deputy presidents. Yes, in the seven heifers of history, together in this land, and all the sons of this great nation, who show the determination and determination to fight as brothers, with the desire to bear witness to language, sex, race, whatever it may be, and all kinds of distinctions that have come together valiantly for the sake of country and holyness alone. From every inch of Anatolian and Ottoman geography, the last castle fought side by side in Çanakkale, as it did yesterday for this holy land, and for those who sacrificed their lives and their blood, as they did today, in the name of my nation, with gratitude and thanks, I ask God to bless our martyrs. On the other hand, I'm calling out to the world once again that we're in the face of any terrorist activity or terrorist organization, no matter what its origin, purpose, whatever its name is. Together, we must be together in the face of these inhuman treachery. Today, we regretfully see that terror continues to be the greatest threat to mankind all over the world. I curse once again the terror that aims at humanity, regardless of language, religion, race, color, or color, and attacks all the values of humanity. I believe we have the power together to disrupt the peace of our nation, the security and stability of our country. With these feelings, I wish God's mercy to all of our citizens who lost their lives in the foul attacks, and to their families, and to our beloved nation, and to our wounded brothers and sisters, and to our immediate healing. Again, as a nation, we understand another Nevruz, one of the reasons why we are united and that we are united. We have full faith in peace, brotherhood, and tolerance that Nevruz will bring for the full unity and unity of the nation. Nevruz, the feast of peace, not separation, but integration, will be our will to share life in unity. Many days in the land of love and feasting, I wish to celebrate our nation's Nevruz, and wish our citizens and all mankind peace. And I thank all the groups and all the MPs. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, I will now promise the first ten members of parliament to enter the system for a minute. Of course we didn't have a coven last week, we were taking a break. There are events going on. So, for today, I'm going to promise ten of our friends who have entered the system for a minute. The first word is Mr. Aydın. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0008par0061	Mayor, I've come all the way from Giresun to get word.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0009par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, must first offer the mercy of God to our citizens who have lost their lives in these treacherous terrorist attacks, and to our country and its relatives. In my speech on the Protection of Personal Data Bill on February 22nd, I noted that there was a weakness of intelligence, that the Gaziantep-born of Gaziantep, who was involved in the attack prior to the October 10th explosion, had been involved in the actions, and that the measure had to be taken. And unfortunately, in the latest explosion on Istiklal Street, a person who was thought to have been connected to Gaziantep again caused the deaths of many citizens as living bombs. So, do you plan to pay compensation to the families of our citizens who have lost their lives in the acts of terrorism and to the citizens who are still being treated or discharged?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0010par0067	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0011par0069	Mr. President, first of all, I wish God's mercy to our security forces who lost their lives from terror last week, and my condolences to the rest, and to the wounded, and to the wounded, I pray for immediate healing. My question to the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks is that the DSI drainage channel that passes through Denizli Ağsiyem Yassüyüyük neighborhood has not been fully opened, and the Serinhisar municipality's treatment facility has been underworked, and the sewage and dirty water waste flowed into this channel, causing great damage to the environment, causing disease and danger. I want to know when to fix this... when to open the channel and when to do this draining channel of the DSI. Two: the bitter Kelekker...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0012par0073	Mr. Emir...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0013par0075	Mr. President, today we have a martyr at the Stick again, and I ask God's mercy on our martyr, and I offer my condolences on the loss of our entire country. Dear friends, last week we had an incident in the press that burned our hearts, and we had a child abuse incident, and a member of parliament who lives at these times is trying to cover up child abuse. He made a huge abuse by saying that those who said that he had committed a crime as severe as child abuse. Dear friends, no matter who's what, no one can cover up child abuse. And it is not your duty to protect us by saying, "It is not your duty to protect us, but to go after him with open heart, and to remove them from you, whether it be in your place or not, because this crime is a grave crime of humanity, and it is our duty to all of us. He came from our side. Don't try to protect him. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0014par0080	Mr. Parsak...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0015par0082	First, I salute our great nation and the Veterans Assembly. The issue of the recruitment of subcontractors was one of our major commitments as the National Movement Party. As MPs and executives of the National Movement Party, we've been able to bring this matter up on every appropriate basis so far. I'd just like to remind you of two examples, Mr. Group Chairman Erkan Akçay Bey has offered us a law on this. Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı, our Deputy Secretary General, and our Koniya MP, has often brought this matter up. In this framework, I would like to take this opportunity to share with our respected nation that we will be followers to the end of today's statements, and that we will act in the framework of our constructive, responsible opposition at the point of resolving the matter in the interests of our beloved nation.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0014par0084	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0016par0086	First of all, I curse terror. For those of us who have been martyred in the acts of terror, I ask God's mercy and good health to our veterans. I also say to the citizens we lost in terror, God rest their souls. There is a problem with the pond in Ulukışla district of Niğde. If this problem of the pond is not solved quickly, it will not be possible to water the cherry products this year. I've brought it up in writing before, and I submitted it to the Minister's information. There's no water in the pond right now, and the water in the pond is getting away. Citizens are very victims. They want this handled immediately by the Ministry. I'm also presenting this matter to the department's relevant information.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0014par0088	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0017par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. The immunity of the law is a guarantee of the will of the nation. Therefore, we must use the authority of the nation not to commit crimes, but to uphold the rights of the nation. Those who visit his fucking tent, declare self-government, and drive the people to hatred and hatred by the cry of resistance must pay their dues in front of the law. This is what our nation demands. There are now 522 immunity fezlekes waiting in the House. We say: In order not to interfere with law enforcement, we add a temporary clause to the Constitution and remove all parliamentary immunity in one move and open the way for trial. In this context, I invite the High Council to listen to the voice of our nation, and salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0018par0093	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0019par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to address the government authorities. We don't want a thermal plant in Arzez district, where the most beautiful fish in our Hatay, which is killing nature, paralyzing human life, we call it no. We, CHP Hatay MPs, don't want this -- Birol Erson, Hilmi Maker and Mevlüt Dudu. Don't confront the public, listen to this innocent demand. We'll fight in any way we can. I thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0020par0098	Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0021par0100	Mr. President, thank you. In the past weeks, and today, both in our country and in the world, he died in terror -- and this week in private, we lost Sergeant Cemil Turan. He's a martyr -- I ask all these people for God's mercy, and I wish our veterans health. What I just wanted to say was, as you know, there was an important development last night. In the United States, Reza Zarrab was detained or arrested. I just want to express here the shame and shame of the fact that none of the research proposals of Republican People's Party and opposition groups on Reza Zarrab had been accepted for years, but that this matter of the investigation or investigation of justice had been left to a prosecutor in the United States. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0022par0104	Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0023par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. We lost hundreds of lives in our country in July because of the recent terrorist attacks on the Kızılay and Istliklal, and hundreds of others are trying to survive psychologically or physically due to the trauma they suffered. We shouldn't turn into a country where people shut down from anxiety, streets and squares are empty. According to the 2016 World Happiness Report, which was announced by the United Nations Sustainable Development Solutions Network a few days ago, Turkey was ranked 78th in 156 countries this year by two more places. Unhappiness, despair, insecurities are common in our country every day. Fourteen years alone in the AKP's power, we're at a point today where terrorists can just waltz into our country and take action, get a green card. As the government does not accept responsibility, it is incapable of blaming opposition parties. I'd like to ask the government about responsibility...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0022par0109	Mr. Ok.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0024par0111	I pray for the mercy of God to our citizens, especially our security forces, who have died in an act of treason against the great Turkish nation and its state, and for the immediate healing of the wounded. The Balıkesir Metropolitan Municipality held a groundbreaking ceremony on May 20, 2015 for the sinkhole to be held at Police Crossroads. Even after the construction of the swamp took place in its 11th month, our municipality remembered that the construction had been built by the Highways. But as a result, it is imperative that the construction of this sinkhole at the center of Balıkesir will be completed as soon as possible, causing serious delays in transportation. This seriously disturbs both our driver's tradesman and the Balıkesir tradesman, who is already in great economic distress. We're waiting for this to be taken care of as soon as possible in the name of the people of Balıkesir. My thanks, my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0025par0114	Finally, Mr. Nurlu...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0026par0116	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, 174 people have been killed in the last five months of live bombings in our country, more than 500 citizens have been injured. Despite such weakness, it is unacceptable for anyone to take political responsibility. Many countries around the world are filled with examples that have resigned, even in mortal accidents, taking political responsibility. For example, the South Korean Prime Minister resigned after more than 300 people died in the ferry crash on April 27, 2014. The Egyptian Minister of Transport resigned after 18 people died in 2009. In 2013, the Latvian Prime Minister resigned after 54 people were killed as a result of the collapse of the roof of a shopping mall. Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu and Interior Minister Efkan Ala, who are political responsible for the deaths of so many citizens in our country, must resign immediately.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0025par0118	Thank you. Now we have friends from the group's vice president who have entered the system. Mr. Bauken, we'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0027par0122	Thank you. Mr. President, the Turkish National Assembly, which our people in Turkey have authorized and held responsible for the rule of the country, has been unable to function for days, while our country has become more unmanageable, and the security of its lives in every corner of the country has been handed over to customs. During the holiday of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, 37 of our citizens lost their lives and 125 of our citizens were injured in attacks on the centre of Ankara on March 13th. Again, four people who came to our country as tourists were killed and 39 others were injured in a live bomb attack on Istiklal Street in the heart of Istanbul. We, the People's Democratic Party, declare that we condemn all these attacks, that we wish mercy to those who die, that we have patience for their relatives. Once again, we remind the public of the responsibility of the AKP government. Clearly, the wrong policies that the AKP government has implemented in and out of its security policies have brought on some of the citizens in our country a heavy security problem, which cannot be allowed to enter their homes, and some of them cannot leave their homes. We are now faced with a picture where even everyday life is unsustainable. In front of this painting, we want to say that the irresponsible position of the Turkish Grand National Assembly is also a matter to rethink, and that there is a need for comprehensive regulations in domestic policy and foreign policy. On the other hand, we regretfully learned that three attacks were carried out in Brussels today.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0028par0128	Let's complete it, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0027par0129	I'll clean it up right away. In these attacks on the airport and the subway, 34 people have died and more than 130 people have been injured, according to what we have learned so far. We would like to express our condemnation of this incident, our sadness about it, our compassion for those who have lost their lives, and our condolences to all the people of Belgium, to all the people of Europe. I'd like to point out that after this explosion, the fact that Belgium shut down the embassies and consulate buildings in Turkey immediately after this attack, we also consider it a sign of what perceptions the AKP government has exposed the country to. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0029par0133	Yes, thank you. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0030par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. We've had two important days, which are an integral part of the Turkish nation's unity and national identity. First, we understood the 101st anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale. The victory of Çanakkale is an unprecedented challenge and victory against those targeting the unity and integrity of the Turkish nation. No matter the origin and religion of our country, thousands, hundreds of thousands of patriots fought shoulder to shoulder in Çanakkale, drinking testimony together. The essence of the spirit of Çanakkale is the Turkish nation's desire to live independently in unity and unity. This self and consciousness is the most important source of power we need today. On this occasion, in Çanakkale, in the Battle of Salvation, in the fight against terrorism, I ask the grace of God to all our martyrs who have come to the place of martyrdom in the name of the Turkish nation. Yesterday, on the other hand, it was the feast of Nevruz. We have come to understand with other sad events the great Turkish nation, which has thousands of years of history, carried from time to time and brought about the joy of once again reaching Nevruz Day, an important element of our culture. On this occasion, the mesir paste in Manisa has been mixed for the 476th time. The ceremony of these mesir pastes in Manisa is also a celebration of the Festival of Nevruz. Nevruz is the story of our nation's resurrection, leaving its hard days behind, coming back to the history scene stronger than ever before. For centuries, Nevruz Day, an undisputable part of our culture, has been rootless in recent years, bearing different meanings...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0031par0143	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0030par0144	...the essence of Nevruz is being tried to break down. Those who view Nevruzuzu as an incentive to promote differences, seeking to purge the republic's national and unitary qualities will have no chance of success in the face of the Turkish nation's will and determination to live together. It must be known that this festival will extend from generation to generation, to every moment of our nation's existence until the end of time. Our mission is to live and live in the feast of Nevruz, with history, geography, poetry, song, tradition and tradition. I hereby congratulate you on the feast of Nevruz, the saint of the Turkish nation, knowing that there is a holiday all over the world that must be felt with a high consciousness. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0032par0147	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0033par0149	Thank you. Mr. President, as Reyhanlı, Diyarbakır, Suruç, Diyarbakır, Ankara Garımet, Sultanahmet, Ankara Merasim Street, Ankara Kızılay, İstanbul, and the nation began with Cilvegözı, while the world woke up today to a violent terrorist attack in Brussels. As the Republican People's Party Group, wherever it comes from, wherever it is intended, regardless of its race, faith, its nation, nationality, we condemn all acts of terrorism and all terrorist organizations with violence and hatred. First in Turkey, then in our geography and then all over the world, for the protection of peace, peace, peace, life and safety of property, we will continue to be open, constructive to any kind of cooperation for the establishment of our national integrity, internal and regional peace, as we have been so far. To those who have lost their lives in the treacherous attacks, we wish God's mercy and immediate healing to the wounded, and to Belgian citizens and the Belgian Parliament, we wish them the Republic's People's Party Group, and our condolences. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0034par0154	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0035par0157	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, a hundred years ago, our ancestors paid a great price for their country not to be invaded by enemies, not to live under any other power. May God accept your testimony. Çanakkale, the capital of our national consciousness, is a document of our national unity and unity. The glorious battle that day prevented our Anatolian from being invaded by enemies, and the fight that took place that day helped us to build a new country. Çanakkale was the first word of our current state, our nation. Just as we fought against the enemy for our independence a hundred years ago, we will fight today with the same determination as the terror scourge of global forces. The spirit of Çanakkale will guide this country's future. I, Chanakkale, bless our martyrs and veterans again. Also, Mr. President, my dear friends, yesterday was the Festival of Nevruz. Nevruz is an Asia Minor, a spring holiday, a festival that has been celebrated in this land for many years. I wish the feast of Nevruz would bring peace to our country in these sad days. I congratulate you all on Nevruz. Other than that, Mr. President, dear friends, we've had a bitter week as a country. We survived a terrorist attack in the taxi. I wish our people the mercy of those who died in the attack, my condolences to their relatives, and to the wounded I pray that they be healed immediately. Unfortunately, terror has no religion, no language, no nationality, as we've always said. Today there were bombings in Belgium. At the airport, 34 people were killed and 55 were injured in the subway attack. We also offer our condolences to Belgium. We're expressing that we're with them. I also bless our martyrs yesterday and today. I ask God's mercy on our martyred security forces. I wish you all a successful, productive living week, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0036par0165	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Mr. Ilıcalı, before it came up, you had a brief thing about the salvation of Erzurum. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0037par0169	Thank you, my dear President. March 12, 1918 is the day when Erzurum, the heart of the Turk, was freed from bondage, brought to life from death. This year we celebrate the 98th anniversary of our salvation... from a dark day, watering the high mountains with noble blood. Erzurum has always maintained this important place in history, and has tried to set an example for his people who are worthy of his country. Today is the day of understanding, not a memorial of Erzurum's salvation. In this relationship, the grandfathers have cursed terror all over Turkey, in Erzurum, in Istanbul, with moon-star flags -- as a sign of unity with their families. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy for our lost citizens in terror, and ask for immediate healing for the wounded. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0038par0173	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Council of the European Union was adopted by a delegation from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on March 13-14, 2016, at the Council of Ministers' Assembly of Human Trafficking in the Digital Age in The Hague in the Netherlands, and was adopted by the General Assembly of 06/03/2016. The names of the political party groups, dated 28/3/1990 and announced by the General Assembly to form a delegation under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 3620, are submitted to the information. Name and Last Name Selection Environment It has been presented to your knowledge. Members of the MPs, as the main commission of the Foreign Commission, as a transfer commission to the Interior Commission (1/430), the main number between the Governments of neighbouring States and the Government of the Republic of Iraq and the Government of the Republic of Iraq and the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Iraq (453). The Commission for Security Co-operation Against Organized Crimes is Against the Act of Security Co-operation Against the Act; the Foreign Commission for Foreign Affairs, as the Central Committee for Foreign Affairs, and for Foreign Affairs and Internal Affairs (453). It's for your information. Members of parliament have been rescinded by İstanbul MP Dursun Çiçek as the main commission of the National Defence Commission and the Plan and Budget Commission (2/855). It's for your information. Now there are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to investigate the reasons for the problem of drugs and recreational substances in our country and to determine the effective and continuous measures of solutions, I submit the requirement for the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Interior Charter. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Tekirdağ]] 13) Ali Haydar Hakver [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Janitor]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 21) Gamze Akkuş İsgez [[İstanbul]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Slap]] 24) Zülfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] Drug addiction is a major threat, especially to young people. No matter what the circumstances, all drugs used are harmful. In the beginning, any substance used for pleasure, which later affects the ability to think correctly and behave negatively and makes it difficult in its absence is drugs. Drug use causes paranoia, numbness, pensiveness, and learning disorder, reducing motivation, stopping physical development. The permanent traces left in the body of drugs have a negative effect on even the next generation. The threat of drugs spreading rapidly throughout the world and Turkey should not be ignored in any way. The number of people arrested in our country for substance abuse in 2005 was 4,125, while 130,049 suspects were arrested from the same situation in 2012. Again, there are 22 treatment centres in our 13 counties in our country. This number is very inadequate and is especially expected to be increased quickly in recent years. In 2011, it was 2,117, with an increase of approximately 123 per cent in 2012, when patients were treated for drug and substance abuse were examined. However, in 2011, 105 direct substance abuse deaths occurred in our country, and a year later, in 2012, the rate increased by 54.3 per cent to 162. Turkey's 2013 drug report listed the total number of deaths as 162. Another detail noted in the report was the origin of drug users. At the beginning of their drug use, 48.98 per cent were reported to be friends, while curiosity led to 23.71 per cent. In 2014, 648 people died from drugs, including seven women, 232 directly and 12 women, 416 indirectly. As a cause of death, 416 drug-related people have been recorded as high fall, drowning, electrocution, stomach bleeding, heart-damaged disease, lung infection, cerebral hemorrhage, burns, cancer, murder, and manual strangulation. 69.74 per cent of drug users have graduated from elementary school, 66.49 per cent of substance users have never been married or lived alone. In order to prevent drug and substance abuse, every part of society has important tasks. The idea that drugs and banned substances can be treated should become common in society. In particular, those who meet the principles of treatment have a very high percentage of drug dropouts. Its blood must be replaced in the absence of treatment among users. It is imperative that parliamentary research be opened to determine the reasons for the problem of drugs and pleasure in our country and the taking of effective and continuous solutions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Istanbul, it is reported to the press almost every day that there are a number of security issues affecting Istanbul's quality of life, particularly the theft. As a result of these thefts, there may be casualties as well as loss of property. It is noted that such incidents often occur in less developed districts and slums in Istanbul. According to a study conducted by the Istanbul Chamber of Commerce, one of Istanbul's most important problems is the security issue. When asked what problems they faced with the highest degree of security, the area most victimized was answered as theft. 13.75% of respondents reported theft in their homes, 9.36% of them reported theft in the workplace, followed in turn by muggings, pickpocketing (8.32 per cent), fraud (7.92 per cent), theft of anything from a motor vehicle (7.03 per cent), injury, battery (6.87 per cent), blackmail, threats (5.62 per cent), auto theft (4.79 per cent), sexual harassment (4.21 per cent) and other crimes (4.05 per cent). One of the main reasons for this maturity is the lack of preventive security policies to the pace of urbanization. Events show that the problem cannot be fixed with available resources and methods. With respect, we would like to present a crime map of events that took place in Istanbul to ensure the peaceful lives of our citizens and the safety of their goods and lives in Istanbul, as a result of this crime map analysis, and the need for the opening of Parliamental research on the basis of the 98th, Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Articles 104, and 105. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Tekirdağ]] 10) Ali Haydar Hakver [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Janitor]] [[Ankara]] 18) Gamze Akkuş Isgez [[İstanbul]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Slap]] 21) Zulfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[Zonguldak]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Social Aid and Solidarity Foundation (SYDV) was established in 1986 by Law 3294, and was established in every district and district for the purpose of dismantling the source collected at the Social Aid and Solidarity Fund to needy citizens across the country. The organizational network in our country is one of the largest. The organisational structure, which differs from traditional public institution and organizational logic, can be a barrier at the point of solving the problems of its staff, although some benefit in terms of processing. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy followed a different method of establishing a traditional public organisation in implementing the purpose of Law 3294 because it needed a fast, flexible and local structure to address the situation of the foundation. Social assistance and solidarity foundations are established in each town and district, and service is given to the target audience at its nearest location in order to meet the needs quickly." It explains it in shape. An important element at the point of implementation of the social state principle is that the SYDV is struggling to address the problems of its citizens, while failing to address the problems of its employees. Some 10,000 SYDV employees have made several serious attempts at resolving their problems, but many of them have failed. SYDV employees are interested in many aid and support jobs throughout our country, including elderly, disabled, widowed, military pensions; education, health, coal, food benefits. However, the same staff has been without staff for some 30 years. Again, they are in a difficult position when their spouses are transferred because they have no right to be appointed. SYDV employees deal with numerous problems, such as autonomy rights, transfer status, lack of months, staff problems, status, and conditions they live in at workplaces. At this point, a methodical approach is required to solve so many problems. With respect to the opening of parliamentary research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution in order to investigate the problems of TYDV employees and their solutions. [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Amasya]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Zonguldak]] 12) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] 13) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 16) Gamze Akkuş Isgez [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Janitor]] 19) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Paddles]] [[Slap]] [[İzmir]] 25) Zülfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, according to our agenda, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Tuesday (22/3/2016), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On Tuesday (December 15th 2015) it has been suggested that our motion to open a parliamentary investigation to determine the measures that should be taken as a result of the asylum of Syrian refugees, Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu and his friends, which we have given to the head of the TBMM by 499 points, will be held in the General Assembly on Tuesday 22/3/2016 (now). The first word on the nationalist Movement Group's proposal is Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu. Here you go, Mr. Topcu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0039par0413	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our party on the research motion presented by the National Movement Party. We salute you all. Of course, before I start my words, I'd like to say a few words about terrorist events that have been really concentrated lately, which have actually been remarkable in a big, fast momentum in recent years, but have been breaking our hearts a lot lately. First of all, today, as you know, there was a terrorist attack in Brussels. We, the National Movement Party, condemn and condemn all kinds of terror, but we pray for God's mercy to the citizens we lost last Sunday (March 13th) in the terrorist attack on Ankara Güvenpark, and especially to our brother Feyaz Aydın, who was wounded on March 13th and lost yesterday. On Saturday, I went to visit Feyaz Aydın in the hospital. There's really no way to describe his mother and father's condition. We have faced a situation that may indeed grieve us, but his mother in particular, Lord, will grant me my child in return for my prayers. Have your consciences been aching -- particularly I would like to address the ruling party MPs -- for ignoring terrorism and avoiding terrorist attacks, especially social outbursts, and for causing these situations to arise as a result of careless behavior in the crossings of Syrian refugees? Again, when we visit the family of Atakan Eray Ozyol, 15 years old, whom we lost on March 13th, I want to share your brother's words here again, and I want to confront you with your consciences: who will pay my brother's account? Please ask me that in the House. Who's gonna tell us about this one? My brother had dreams and we were going to make them come true. For this reason, I want to fulfill my promise here, and I say, "Who has prevented this child's dreams of Atakan Eray Özyol, and who will be asked about the account of these other victims of terror?" Of course, it's all about each other, and there's no way we can tell one from the other. Regarding the refugee issue in particular, our proposal for the Syrian asylum seeker issue has come to light today, which is now out of control. As we look at it now, we will face future costs that we can't measure in the future -- economically, socially, in terms of security, psychologically -- that we can't really predict. In particular, a holistic policy needed to be implemented, a firm policy needed to be implemented, an honorable policy needed to be implemented. When the interests of the state and the nation come to the agenda, we have seen carefully, delicately, with the need to implement a policy based on the right of the subject, that we are all witnessing a policy in the mentality of horse bargaining and the mentality of the Kayseri negotiation. I'd like to give you some statistical information first. As we look at the UNICEF report and reports published by other institutions in Turkey, the number of Syrians registered in Turkey is 2,750,000. In particular, we can see that the number of Syrians in the camps is 275 thousand, and we can safely say that those who live outside the camp are almost 2.5 million. And I really want to give it to you right here that there's a 54 percent ratio of children. So almost 1.5 million of them are children, between 0 and 18. The number of people attending school is 325 thousand, and when we look at unregistered ones, believe me, it's more than millions. Now, we've entered the 5th year of the Syrian War, but we're talking about an important community that we still can't control, that we can't record. Don't underestimate this community, $3 million. I'd like to make some comparisons for you again. I want to count countries in the European Union, countries in Europe that have less than 3 million populations: Lithuania, Albania, Slovenia, Macedonia, Estonia and Latvia. And this community, again, is one third of Hungary -- we're talking about 3 million of Turkey's population -- 3/4 of Ireland, nearly 500,000 of Latvia's population, nearly 6 times Luxembourg's population, 7 times Malta, almost one third of Sweden's population, 1.5 times Slovenia's. The population we're talking about is not so calculated and manageable, but we're dealing with it now because we've been spending them across the border uncontrollably, unregisteredly. In particular, when the war began and the immigration movement began, I would like to share with you the statement of then Foreign Minister Davutoglu on October 16, 2012 that if he exceeds 100,000, the buffer zone will be on the agenda. When does he say it? October 16, 2012. When we look at the number now, we can say that this number is over 3 million. So the stability of a country and policies in the interests of the state, the nation must be measured, believe me, by the precision of the scales. Especially considering the trauma of Syrian children, I would like to share with you how they will bring up a demographic structure in the next 15 years, 20 years, three of the four Syrian children have lost their relatives, their parents, their siblings in the war, and one of the three children have suffered physical violence and have been unable to cope with stress. When we leave our homes, we're dealing with dozens of Syrian asylum seekers who are miserable and helpless in the streets. Again, when we want to draw your attention to this population, in a recent study on February 26th - 27th, when we look at the general population, 96 per cent of asylum seekers lack health insurance because they do not have passports or IDs. Schoolchildren can't go to school. Of the four children, one is employed, so there are currently 400,000 children working. When we look at these angles, I wonder if they'll go back tomorrow, no, our dear friends, they won't go back. So we needed to analyze them more carefully, to create the buffer zone. In Şam, we go to pray in two hours. Those messages, which are being given to this country, should be paid in front of the law. Today, the citizens we lost from terror must be accounted for. Because now we're all witnesses to the acts of terrorism being done by people who pass by. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's why we're saying you're not supposed to do anything sloppy. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0040par0429	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. The second statement on the Milliyetist Movement Group's proposal is against İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0041par0433	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I'd like to begin by saying that, despite being released two days ago, I condemn the decision of my colleagues, who walk the courthouse every day in front of us, who do nothing but practice as a lawyer, to be released today, to be arrested on appeal. Lawyers are needed to everyone and arrest is a precaution; there is no justification in the courthouse for the arrest of people who are in the presence of prosecutors, judges every day, a completely political law. In the same way, Bosporus University Professor Elvira Munchan is not even in the ward and is also in solitary confinement. And he's one of the most naive people in the world, and there's no real motive for his arrest, there's no crime involved, and it's a separate crime of humanity, and I'd like to start by condemning all of these illegal political decisions. The nationalist Movement Party for Refugees has proposed problems with their arrival in Turkey. I think that the concept of the problems of the refugees coming to Turkey is also a very wrong concept. I ask you to imagine that a war has been going on in your country for five years, that some of you have been detained by ISIS men, that some of you have been taken from your daughters, that perhaps you have emigrated to Turkey with the rest of your family. In fact, it's impossible for any of us to imagine it, but let's not forget that we're not in this kind of pain except for a few of us, that many of us actually lead a long life away from the Syrian refugee women we share the same streets, the neighborhoods. Since Turkey is part of the 1951 Geneva Convention with a geographical limitation, it gives refugee status only to those from Europe, the Syrian people are therefore not seen as refugees. In fact, the Syrians have no status in Turkey. Only the basic needs are being met, and from time to time they are only referred to as guests, and from time to time, they are only tolerated - in nails. From the spring of 2011, when the Syrian crisis began, according to official records, there were 2 million 560,000 Syrian refugees registered as of the beginning of 2016. It is estimated that about a third of the number was not registered in Turkey because most of the 1 million refugees who reached Europe through Turkey have no record of Turkey. The 25 tents and containers established in 10 counties are 269,366 Syrian residents in the city, so only 10 per cent of the total number of official refugees. The rest live in various cities. As you know, the refugee negotiation that we have to express in these words did not begin today. The AKP government, who thought it would soon overthrow Bezar Assad, said it would intervene in the military if the number of Syrians who sought refuge in Turkey was over 100,000 while trying to draw the European Union to its side. He set up camps on the border before the refugees even began to arrive. Those who fought in Syria were returning to Syria when they freely entered these camps and asked for them. It was the AKP government that encouraged the first refugee raid, but it didn't get asked, Assad didn't go, the war continued, and the number of refugees is nearing 3 million. Three billion euros, understood today with the EU, are conditioned on Turkish citizens to be called to visa exemptions in the Schengen region, Turkey's EU summits, and the opening of two of the topics in frozen European Union accession talks, keeping refugees within Turkey. If Turkey is not dealt with, Greece is threatened to be expelled from Schengen. When one sees how these relationships are poisoned, one is ashamed for both Turkey and the European Union. Under this agreement, all undocumented immigrants from Turkey to Greece will start returning from March 20th. We heard its first pains in the words of an Afghan woman who arrived on the island of Pony at the end of her boat ride on March 21st. I'd rather die than return to Turkey by showing bruises on his body and on his child. He said, "We stayed on the streets, we didn't have food, we didn't have shelter, we didn't have anyone to protect us." The police and soldiers almost killed us. Again, yesterday in Mersin, a 23 - year - old woman, Midye Hassan, jumped in front of the train and killed herself. We need to think about what we and the whole world put these women through, not the problems that women create. The Syrians, mentioned at all times, as a problem, as a burden, have become an important source of wealth for some. For example, journalist Fehim Taştekin wrote that an oil drilling machine was ripped out of the Cilve-Eye Gate in Hummus, and the 15-20 million-dollar machine sold to the United Arab Emirates for $1 million. In the stone's one-on-one research, he explained that many more factories' machines were looted in a similar way. So the Syrians' poverty was also the wealth of the investor looking for cheap labor. I mean, it's actually on the back of refugees, mostly women. Imagine you're traveling alone as a fugitive. What kind of risks do you face? Syrian refugee women have been awake for days to avoid rape and harassment, as well as being maintained by the violence, police, and those working in the area of immigration, talking about human traffickers negotiating sexual relations with themselves. For women, war means not only death, but sexual violence and rape. Moreover, women who face such severe traumas cannot easily find comrades who will hold their hands and heal their wounds in foreign lands where they do not know their language. Women are not only responsible for their health and their lives, they are responsible for the children, they feel responsible for them. Experts working in the region say in Turkey, especially in the border provinces, girls 12 to 13 years old are forced to sex work. The Istanbul head of the Refugees and Refugees Solidarity Association, Gizem Al Kadah, says that women who work as a sex worker because of desperation because they can't find a job are also very common among trans Syrian immigrant women. Another form of sexual violence is polygamy marriages. Young women and children between the ages of 15 and 25 who are having financial difficulties alone and are forced to have sex labor again after they are persuaded to marry polygamy, which is very common. In textile workshops, women work for twelve hours a day, $600 a day. Moreover, many Syrian female workers express abuse by the bosses. Yes, the Istanbul Convention, signed by Turkey without hesitation, including refugees and immigrant women, provides preventive measures against violence, preventive measures for all women, but refugee women in Turkey cannot benefit from public services, unfortunately, with the rights guaranteed by this contract. Women also face serious problems in access to justice due to language problems, inability to report and discrimination. I'd like to make a few suggestions on the solution. First, Turkey needs to be acknowledged for its fact that the Syrians will continue to live here and to produce policies related to it. After that, all local government units related to asylum seekers, especially AFAD, must work in cooperation with NGOs. Paramedics who are being abused and abused need psychosocial support. International aid for refugees needs to be inspected. I'm running out of time. The Labour Organization ILO (ILO) must sign and enforce agreements on the rights of migrant workers, and the refugees must be cut off from the political bargaining process. This world is enough for all of us, as long as we have intentions. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0042par0451	Thank you. In turn, it belongs to Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0043par0455	Dear friends, I salute you all. Dear friends, first of all, before this refugee issue, I'd like to share a few things with you. Dear friends, last week we had an incident in which both our country's reputation and its status in the Democratic League. I'm very interested in what they think about this, especially Mr. Bostanci, deputy leader of AKP Group -- he's also an academic. I also want to tell you how these three academics that we've been through, the arrest of three academics who have only expressed their freedom of expression, their opinion, and how they view the arrests of three academics in Turkey for democracy. Dear friends, it's actually freedom of expression, which is actually the democracy of Turkey that's being arrested. This arrest is also an important issue in Turkey to show the point of democracy. We went with our friends to visit these three academics yesterday. Dear friends, this decision is a court decision, but the verdict is not legal. This decision is a milestone on the road to fascism. This will be written on the day we live in the future, and those who oppose fascism will be written, and those who remain silent in fascism will be written, but most importantly, history will write those who support fascism. Just as those who have supported fascism in the past, fascist practices in the past, if they were embarrassed in the past, on September 12th, and in the coming period, those who remain silent and supportive of fascism and those who cause it will be ashamed. Dear friends, of course, there have been explosions last week in both division and Ankara, and today in Brussels. Looking back now, when we go to 2011, there are things the speakers of the Republican People's Party, the President of the Republic, the members of the group, said from this platform, in various environments. They said the Republican People's Party: this policy you've followed, the policy you're trying to break the policy Turkey has traditionally followed, will cause Turkey a lot of trouble. Dear friends, this policy has ripped millions of people from their land in Syria and has made Turkey's borders -- in itself and in the world -- a route for the bloody killers of terrorist organizations. There was an expression in the world, such as the Middle East, and Turkey now entered that expression. Look, back in the day, the Middle East used to be called the Middle East, and the bombs would come to mind, and the Middle East would come to mind, and Beirut would come to Baghdad. Dear friends, now that it's the Middle East, Ankara comes to mind. How embarrassing this is, how we all feel, how we all have to think about it, it's something that the people who run this country should think about in the first place, dear friends. What did CHP MPs say, CHP spokesman? If you go to the burning fire in Syria, the fire will come and hit your country. This is exactly what we're going through: Brussels, Paris, Istanbul, Ankara. First of all, I'd like to point out that I condemn the people who set off every three bombs in Ankara, those who set off the bomb in both Sultanahmet, and those who blessed those who killed them. In terms of the Republican People's Party Group, there is no difference between the murderers in the October 10th Ankara massacre and the bombers who bombed the service in front of the General Staff in the past few weeks, both are killers who should be humiliated. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, once again, this Syrian policy has made Turkey a third-rate country in the eyes of the world. This is the AKP and the government that has ruled foreign policy so far -- which is now the first Prime Minister -- who, at times, insulted the staff in the Foreign Office; and they said to some, "They excluded some -- the staff who worked there," and they brought people who were in their thoughts. What happened? He put Turkey in a swamp, the AKP. Dear friends, the only person responsible for this is the fact that Turkey is bad with all its neighbours in the Middle East swamp, the only one responsible for it being hostile is the foreign policy followed by AKP and AKP. The wrong foreign policy we've been following has only affected our foreign policy. It affects our internal security -- unfortunately, we lived last Sunday, we're no longer able to go to the games -- we're in a situation that destroys Turkey for security reasons. Turkey's greatest security weakness is the AKP. The AKP is the most important security weakness for Turkey today. Look, people can't get out on the street. Istanbul traffic dropped to 15 percent yesterday. In Kızılay, no shopping mall in Ankara unfortunately, people can't shop or go out on the street, dear friends. You're responsible for this coming point, dear friends, you're responsible for this coming point. You have caused Turkey to fall into this situation, and today you have uncovered a matter called the "clientist" issue, which the MHP has asked to be investigated. First of all, we emphasize that every time we talk, this refugee issue is the result of these policies, but this refugee issue, as the AKP sees, is not only our concern; it is also a matter of the world. So far, refugees -- the biggest problem we've had since World War II -- are unfortunately, only being shown as Turkey's problem. There's been a deal made over the past few weeks that people are ashamed of, dear friends. If you remember, Turkey had a European Union target, we entered the European Union in the Kızılay Square. Fireworks were fired during the day. Now, they're trying to make this visa exemption a success. Dear lawmakers, look where we've come from, for God's sake, a country that aims to become a full member of the European Union, and now we come to a country that offers only visa exemption as a success. It's a sign of where we're going from our point of view. Now, Turkey, which received 3 billion euros in this refugee issue, unfortunately, wants to be made a refugee camp for Europe. Dear friends, what countries we call the European Union -- as their own countries say -- what they do is against human rights, against democracy, against humanity. I would like to point out that I strongly condemn the European Union's position here. It's no one's place to say that you should be their keeper, that you should be their station. Unfortunately, Turkey has agreed to this. With this agreement, only 72,000 refugees will go to Europe, a qualified refugee. Now, dear friends, there are nearly 3 million Syrian refugees in Turkey. About 1 million of them are children, and nearly 700,000 of them are unfortunately children who are in the age of reading, but still don't go to school. Turkey must demonstrate an understanding of the refugee issue with its opposition to power. This is not an issue that only the AKP will be able to solve -- and it is not in a position to solve -- and it is not in a position to solve it -- but it is a matter that all politics, all groups, can solve by developing a common policy, just as it governs the country by leaving it to the AKP. It seems these children will continue to grow up here, but there is a danger waiting for us, which I'd like to bring to your attention. Nearly a million children, children in school, can't go to school, and you can imagine the future of these children. Now, of course, these are things that we, CHP speakers have warned for years, but AKP has not listened to. Unfortunately, the AKP followed sectarian politics in the Middle East and had no relationship with any country, and unfortunately today Turkey became a country in which total terrorist groups of the Middle East were formed. Dear friends, we must return to the past Mustafa Kemal Ataturk established and watched peace, peace in the world. We have to stop them from getting involved in the internal affairs of Syria and other countries. These policies need to be reviewed quickly, without delay. As for refugees, refugees don't just live in camps, they don't live in about 7 or 8 districts of Turkey; they don't live in... Other than that, this has become one of our main issues. I say that we support the application of the research proposed by the DP on the resolution of this matter, and I salute the assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0044par0477	On the proposal of the National Movement Party Group, the final statement, which is against it, belongs to Antalya MP Atay Beşli. Mr. Goody, here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0045par0480	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I ask God's mercy for our citizens who have died in terrorist incidents in the past few weeks, and I ask patience for their relatives. Dear friends, I have made a pledge against the proposal of Syrian asylum seekers to open parliamentary research in order to investigate their problems in Turkey. We, Anatolian, were hosting migration not only today, but yesterday. See, the Ottomans opened their doors to the Jews who fled from Spain, opened their doors to the Orthodox ones who fled from the Catholic oppression, opened their doors to the kings of Sweden and Hungary, the Russians who fled from the Tsarate Russia, and opened their doors to the Russians who fled from the Bolshevik Revolution. In the Republic, our doors were always open; we opened our doors to the Germans who fled from Hitler, the Iranians who fled from the Iranian Revolution; we opened our doors to our 350,000 descendants from Bulgaria; we opened our doors to those who came from Iraq with mass currents; we opened our doors to Bosniaks from the former Yugoslavia; we opened our doors to the Kosovos. Turkey adopted about 2 million asylum seekers between 1923 and 2011. Now, there's a new process, and we're hosting about 3 million refugees after 2011. As a result of the humanitarian crisis that began in 2011, about 2.7 million people arrived in our Syrian country. Today, the number of Syrians recorded biometrics in our country -- just as friends have expressed -- is $2,750. About 280,000 of them live in 25 camps in 10 provinces. Our country has applied two policies from day one to day, one to open door policy, and the other to not send back. Both of these policies are policies conducted at the end of a legal, conscientious, human, moral and historical process. Dear President, valued MPs, it's not an easy process to manage a three-million-dollar refugee raid in four years, but let me just say that Turkey is running an exemplary process. Our camps today are above UN standards. Today, the camps provide basic needs for social, education, health care. Outside the camp, AFAD, Interior Ministry Immigration Administration General Directorate, Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Ministry of Health, Ministry of National Education, governorships, governorships, municipalities, works. Today, again, the Syrians in Turkey remain temporarily protected. According to the International Protection Act and the International Protection Act issued by this Assembly in 2013, the status of the Syrians is temporary protection. Temporal protection is a protection status known to those who come to our borders in mass. This status has been set in detail in Turkey as well as not in Europe, and a regulation on this issue has been adopted by the Council of Ministers' decision. According to this regulation, Syrian asylum seekers who come to Turkey are first granted temporary identity papers; biometric data is received, temporary identification documents are issued, and then they have foreign ID numbers. Syrian people with foreign ID numbers have access to education, health care and welfare. Therefore, almost all Syrians are registered because those who do not register have access to these services. Again, with these ID cards, they can apply for a work permit, get temporary plates for their vehicles. Today -- just now -- speakers have expressed -- there are around 750 thousand Syrian children in Turkey in the age of education, correct. We got 350 grand of this into the school. This 350,000 is not an easy number, friends; for 350,000, we need tens of thousands of courses, tens of thousands of teachers. Our goal is big, we're gradually increasing it. By the end of the year, hopefully, 450 thousand children will all reach education at the end of next year. We do studies on education, curriculum studies. Some of them continue schools that fit the Turkish curriculum, and some of them continue schools that fit the Syrian curriculum. However, we do not fully apply the Syrian curriculum; that curriculum passes through the control of our Ministry of National Education, is sorted out, then given to children. Again, these children have been granted access to universities in nine provinces, without the use of Turkish students' quota; I want to make this clear, and I want to express it specifically. Again, the Turkish abroad give scholarships to Syrian students, with the number of these being 3,000 today. Our services continue in the field of health care. We've done 13 million clinic services, 300,000 surgeries. We have trained and certified 150,000 Syrians in areas such as hairdressers, computers, electricians. Yeah, it's all adaptive. On the other hand, we have work on children. See, 165,000 Syrian babies were born in Turkey; that's a serious number; friends just told me. The number of babies born in Denmark last year is 50,000, and we have 55,000. But we're also working on these, and our Ministry of Family and Social Policy is detecting them one by one, giving families the necessary psychological support and health care. Look, we've made another determination, there are 53,000 orphans or orphans in Turkey, and 3,000 are orphans and orphans. They're all being accessed or escorted to love houses and taken into their own protection. We're also doing some work on these. Again, family education programs have been translated into Arabic, we've given about 100,000 family education programmes, language courses. On the other hand, we took a serious step about a month ago: a work permit. A work permit is one of the most important stages of integration, harmony. The Council of Ministers has issued a decision on this, and now the Syrians have access to work, employment. Friends, we're at a very good point in social harmony and social distance. I'd like to point out that so far, all political parties have used a truly commendable language from the beginning of the process to today. I thank everyone, all political parties. But I also say that these policies should be government policy, not government policy. We had to open our door to them because there was a war, because there was a cruel Assad, killing people. Look, today, more than 300,000 people have died in Syria, more than 10 million people have been replaced, about 4 million are abroad, 6 million are within Syria.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0046par0498	Please, look at the text.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0045par0499	Guys, we're handling today's process as best we can with minimal difficulties. Look, there are busy Syrians in Antwerp, in Urbana, in Hatay, in Adana, in Milis, in Istanbul. The proportion is 15 per thousand in Europe, while Turkey is 4 per cent in church, 100 per cent in church. So the church has 100,000 inhabitants, 110,000 Syrians. Since we are running this process so well, we say: "We nominate the Church to the Nobel Prize. " We expect support in this regard.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0046par0500	Bravo!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0045par0501	Look, there are no incidents in the Church, but what's in Europe? There is panic in Europe. What are the Europeans doing? Foreign hostility is rising. Last year there were 871 attacks on foreign refugee homes in Germany. Again, in Germany, you look, the Germans applaud as asylum seekers burn their dorms; Belgium, the Netherlands do not behave differently. Denmark makes laws, seizes valuables, England wears red bracelets. But, we don't, we don't, our historical, conscientious, legal responsibility requires it. We run this process as best we can. On the other hand, the Mediterranean has a process of being a cemetery. Look, there's been a joint European Union-Turkey statement about that, too. We've taken steps into that. These steps will prevent the Mediterranean from becoming a baby cemetery. We will stop illegal migrations, and we will send one to Europe in exchange for the one person there. After that, we will activate our Volunteer Human Acception Programme with an international summit decision, hopefully to improve the human condition of refugees near the Turkish border.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0046par0503	What about the rest of them, the rest of them?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0045par0504	Guys, what's left is a historic mission. We've made integration policies about them, and we'll keep doing it. We're getting him to education, we're getting him healthy, we're getting him to work, we're giving him psychological support. They'll stay here until the cruel regime is gone, and then we'll run programs on their return. Look, do you know what the solution is? 1) The death of the cruel Assad regime. 2) The creation of a secure zone. 3) Continuing integration processes. Let me put it this way: Migration is not a good or bad event alone, it's a good thing if migration is managed well. There is an example of this in the development of Europe; Europe has evolved with migrations. We're running it well, we'll keep running it. We're also fighting illegal immigration, friends in Turkey. Look, so far, we've captured 4,550 migrant traffickers. Again, we are not neglecting the security dimension; we have deported nearly 4,000 foreigners from 90 countries, and we have imposed a ban on 40,000 people from 125 countries. Again, under the Human Rights Review Commission of Parliament, we have established the Refugee Rights Review Subcommittee, and we continue to work together. So far, we've listened to all of our friends, NGOs, relevant institutions; we'll listen to international organizations, we'll conduct proper inspections, hopefully we'll conduct this process as best we can. I offer you all respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0047par0514	Thank you, Mr. Nice. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0048par0518	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit01spe0047par0519	Yes, there's a request for a roll call before the nationalist movement group puts the proposal to a vote. Now, I'm going to look for signatures, and I'm going to process them accordingly. Mr. Altay, Mr. Emre, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Yılim, Mr. Aydın, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Budak, Mr. Pine, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Uğüzdağ, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özkoc. Yeah, I'm just gonna call the number of meetings. I'll give you three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0047par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the nationalist Action Group's proposal was voted, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you five minutes to roll call. Mr. Lawmakers who give compasses must not leave. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The People's Democratic Party group proposal was given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. Now I'm going to read the proposal and process it, and I'm going to put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Tuesday (22/3/2016), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 22 March 2016, Diyarbakır MP was proposed by Group Deputy Chair İdris Baluken ( rank 1481) to be read by Bediuz Zaman Saidi Nursi (Kurdi), Sheikh Sait and Seyit Rýza in the same date in the joint collection of talks and to be submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly for the information of the General Assembly, which was given to the Turkish Assembly in order to identify and extradite the burial sites of their friends. The first word on the proposal belongs to the Bingöl MP Hishyar Ozsoy. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Guys, let's stop humming. Here, Mr. Ozoy, I'll start your time.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0049par0027	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group for the parliamentary research we've requested in order to locate and extradite the burial sites of Bediuz Zaman Saidi Nursi or Kurdi, Sheikh Sait and Seyit Reza and their friends. I respectfully salute the General Assembly and the following citizens. [[Noises]] Mr. President, can you please give me a heads-up on this hum?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0050par0031	Congressmans, please, the speaker is on the stand, so let's stop humming.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0049par0032	We have previously stated on this parliamentary platform the practices of the state for the funerals of Kurdish citizens who died on different occasions. Today, specifically, in the eyes of the state, we would like to investigate the House for the discovery of the graves of three individuals, historical figures, who are considered a traitor, haliquit, terrorist, and considered a danger, but are extremely valuable to Kurds. This is the last will and testament of Sheikh Sait, who was buried in a pit that no one has ever known after being hanged with 46 friends in the Mountainkapi Square in 1925: He will grant him a tomb with the money he has left and the rest of the money to his children, and that's what the court tells the prosecutor, but it will not be made a tomb for him, nor will it be delivered to his own children. Again with the 1937-1938 class incident...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0051par0036	Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0049par0037	I won't, Mayor. I'm protesting.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0051par0038	When you cut it off, people shut up. Go ahead, now. Please, lawmakers, let's not interfere, let's stop humming.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0052par0041	In the case of 1937-1938, Seyit Reza, you know, his condition is very sad. Intensity, at some point, was reflected in the press by Mr. President over and over again in the apology debate for my class, remember? When Seyit Reza Elazığ was hanged in Wheat Square, his last words were: "We are sons, we are brothers; shame, persecution, murder." These are his last words. However, before that, there is a will of Seyit Reza, and his son will be hanged. Please don't hang my son first, hang me; I won't see my son's execution. It's his last will, and they won't do it, and they'll hang his son before his eyes, and then he'll hang himself. Then they will bury him and his companions in an unknown place, or burn them. We do not know the outcome of the matter. These are the decrees of the state. Finally, after the 1960 coup, Saidi Nursi, or Saidi Kurdi, who was buried in Fairfax in 1960, was removed from the tomb and taken away by a military plane. The funeral is not present, or is said to have been thrown into the sea or buried somewhere in Isparta. We don't know that. Now, it's a very concrete expression of what will happen to Heikh Sait and Saidi Kurdi, and to the Kurds the government considers to be a danger, no matter what their religious, ideological, political tendencies, that they can't find a two-metre piece of land within their homeland. These three graves are actually a paradigm. In this period, from 1925 to 1960, the practices of these individuals, which Kurds valued, their funerals, are still being carried out as a paradigm, as reckless, and inhospitable today. Look, here's a map that the Human Rights Association made in 2014, a mass grave map. Look at the map, this red zone is a document of how the state governs the Kurds, an example of how. 4,201 bodies in 348 mass graves. After the peace process was put in the refrigerator, we know that more than 1,500 people have lost their lives so far in this climate of war and violence. As a political institution, I'm afraid we haven't been able to do our part as Parliament. This Parliament has referred the matter to the government, the government has tendered it to the President, and the President to the military, private combat methods, unfortunately. Thousands of dead people in the middle, we, unfortunately, couldn't prevent it. But the least we can do is, as Parliament: Look, I was in Diyarbakir. There, I met with the two fathers whose children were killed in Sur. They are originally from Bingley, Diyarbakır, and their home is behind Minare of Four-foots. One of the kids is a student. His father swears: "You can't make a funeral if you put a thousand bullets into it to identify funerals that we've gone to, and neither of them have been able to identify their children's funerals." It's in the press, we can share, we can share. Both dads couldn't identify it. More than 130 bodies can't be identified in Cizre, it's impossible, their body integrity is broken, their families are going to the morgue, they're running blood tests all over the place, so maybe we can do a DNA match. There are still 11 bodies in Urbana, 5 in Malatya, 33 in Cleopatra, 11 in Şırnak, 12 in Cizre, 6 in Mardin; 9 cannot be identified; they can't be found, so it's practically impossible. I'm running out of time, so I'll try to get it together. These practices... look, we couldn't stop the war, but let the war have a law, a principle, a principle, and the insults against the dead bodies of Kurds end. It's a very clear request, and we'll insist on it until this matter is resolved. These practices have absolutely no place in Islamic law; let him who says so come and speak. These practices have no place in the laws of war; they have no place in human rights; they have no place in the Turkish Penal Code; they have no place in any of them, because they are said in the Turkish Penal Code; I read part of them: the body or bones of a dead body in the middle of seven days, and the body of a dead body is punished by prison for up to two years. We ask you, we ask you, we have shared it earlier, there have been funerals displayed in Varto, funerals which have been dragged behind the jeeps, funerals that have been carried out in the middle of the streets of Taybet. All of this is on the air, so they're all documented. Tell us one public official who's ever been tried for insulting these murdered people, who's been punished; there isn't. When the state is weak from its own law, or dead from the Kurds, we face a state understanding that doesn't even abide by its own law. So we say, I end it right now: Kurds don't just have the problem of not living humanly within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, Kurds also have the problem of not dying humanely. For him, we feel that the state should first apologize to all Kurds who have been insulted by their funerals since 1925 and take responsibility for finding them and giving them their place to their families. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0053par0053	Sir, tell us about our Kurdish-rooted martyrs, not only do Kurdish terrorists die, but also Kurdish martyrs. We have Kurdish martyrs, Kurdish security guards, martyrs.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0052par0054	That's the point, that's why.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0054par0055	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy. The second word on the proposal belongs to Isparta MP Sait Yüce. Here you go, Your Highness.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0055par0059	Mr. President, thank you. Dear MPs, on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the advice of the HDP group, I give you my opinion. Tombs and graveyards are among the symbols of social memory. Moreover, it reveals the pain of society toward death and the dead. In this regard, martyrdom is one of the tools to create a common identity through historical memory. In various places in Çanakkale, martyrdom gives us sufficient insight. Since the Ottoman community was a peaceful society with the truth of death and the belief in the afterlife, the graveyards found their place in mosques and places where people lived. Unfortunately, the only party that wanted to take the fact of death out of everyday life destroyed city graves almost everywhere. What are the questions of death, which he asks, assuming that the absent will be out of sight? Where do you come from? Where are you going? What is the real role of the world's human being? They tried to throw such questions out of life. But every soul will taste death. O man! You're going to die. They couldn't escape the truth. The preservation of graves and graves is important for historical continuity, but the symbols are used as identity building tools. Kurdish is the common identity of the three names mentioned in HDP's proposal. These people whose graves are unknown today, of course, are, but I don't and we don't see it as a positive approach to the fact that these names are set up as symbols of Kurdish nationalism and that nationalism is fed on them. Said Nursi is Saidi Kurdî, but Saidi Kurdi is not Said Nursi. Ocalan had a statement about these Saids, both of whom were British and British agents. At that time, I also think that the friends who made this suggestion should also settle with Ocalan, which is in the records. So...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0056par0065	They call it British collaborators.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0055par0066	Of course they do. The British co-worker says, he says, "Ecalan" has such expressions. We expect those who have made this suggestion to give an explanation at this point. Yes, so it is a moral responsibility for Kurdish nationalists to withdraw their hands from Said Nursi, and stop using it as a political tool. Said Nursi is not just one of the cements of the Kurds, but of Turkey, or even of the lslam, and will remain so. The rulers of the oppression and persecution of that day's single party have made grave mistakes that do not suit humanity, Islam, the brotherhood. We reject these unacceptable atrocities and errors in our recent history to the end. We believe that those who cause it will answer in the sight of our people and in the sight of God. Those who committed the wrongs suffered from their own souls, and from their dead bodies, and from their graves, so they lost their graves. Sheikh Sait was executed on June 29, 1925. In the memory of Ismet Inönul, however, there are also statements from Ismet Inönul, saying that Sheikh Sait was supported by the British and that there was no evidence that he was spying for them. Seyit Reza was executed on November 15, 1937, and his body was transferred to an unknown location, like Sheikh Sait. On March 23, 1960, Said Nursi received the mercy of the Hakk (Hakk) on a night of Kadir in Ramadan, and immediately after that -- your property -- was the May 27 coup. The perpetrators of the May 27 coup took him to a military plane one hundred and eleven days after the burial site, on July 12, 1960, in the middle of the night, declaring a curfew in Urbana, surrounded by armored troops and tanks, breaking the marble of the tomb to an unknown location. Thank God those days are over. At the time, Said Nursi had always called his disciples against persecutions and tortures and imprisonments and exiles: "They are doing wrong to him by the incitement of the zundika committees, who have persecuted him, tortured him, banished him, and do not hold revenge against them. Our duty is the proper movement, I am not allowed to act, we are the spiritual keepers of the peace. Those who read his works have not acted, have not left his country. At this time, jihad is spiritual. He chose to describe the beauty of Islam without resorting to arms, hardship, oppression, faith, and freedom in the hearts of the people. As a matter of fact, he was right in his preference to save millions of people's faith and their eternal lives. It also prevented great turmoil in other countries from coming out of our country. The lack of knowledge of Said Nursi's tomb has always been the subject of polemics in the media. At the same time, God also has clear explanations and wills. Of course, none of us can support that this is being brought up frequently and that the May 27th revolutions have also been illegally and secretly opened and carried the tomb of Said Nursiya, and none of us can accept such a thing; and those who have done so have committed a crime. However, his loved ones and relatives, should not be known as Said Nursi. He believes that his will is being fulfilled by the hands of the oppressors by the permission of fate, and so is this. As a matter of fact, in the Qur'an, Bakara, in the 181st verse, if anyone changes the law after hearing it, it is the neck of him who changes the law. It is said that the will is so important in the Qur'an, and that he who changes the will is said to have committed a great sin. As a matter of fact, it is in the will and in its works: my grave is in a very secret place. No one can know but one or two of my students. I make this will because the truth that prevents me from talking in the world, of course, forces me to do so after my death. Kissing my hand feels like slapping me. They have wills like that. His will is not a priority. From the point of view of his will, he does not have a grave location problem. The case of Bedizz time, who has remained away from the leader's cult all his life, takes up the ministry of faith, not the person. It means that the facts can't be built on mortal figures. After seeing the little girl of the opium prosecutor in the prison yard, I also give them my blessing against those who persecute them. With these interviews, I think this proposal has a constructive, separatist quality and aims to provide symbolic gains to Kurdish nationalism. I say we vote for the proposal. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0057par0077	Thank you, Your Holiness. Mr. Ozsoy...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0058par0079	Mr. President, stop using it as a vehicle for Said Nursi. I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0057par0080	Here you go, I'll give you two minutes for teasing. Please, let's not afford another tease. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0059par0085	Now, my dear friends, the speaker, has spoken, and said, "They've made a number of governments that were despots at the time, and we condemn them. But this party has been in power for 13 or 14 years. So does our group not feel the need to take responsibility for this, or the government? Plus, there's no point in sitting around and obsessing over Kurdish nationalism. Look, we said here that they are respectable people for the Kurds. They can also be respectable people for other communities. But when we put the ongoing practices together today, we see that the state is systematically attacking the dead bodies of Kurds that it considers dangerous, sees as enemies, sees as terrorists. It's a question of whether we're going to take on political responsibility in terms of the virtual environment, the media, all over the world, in terms of human terms, in terms of Islamic law, in terms of war law, in terms of whether or not we're going to take on political responsibility. We don't care what happens to the Kurds' funerals there. If you say so, how can you make peace with the living of this people when there is so much insult to the dead? There's not much point in politics about this. Where's Sheikh Sait? Like my grandfather's own grandfather. I want my grandfather's grave, I want his name.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0060par0087	There's nothing wrong with the living and dead of the Kurds.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0061par0088	Separate the people and the terrorist.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0059par0089	So, I mean, let's skip it. Are you going to take responsibility for this, whether or not this Parliament will take responsibility for finding these burial sites, and the rest is rhetorical. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0062par0091	Sheikh Sait is an English collaborator? British collaborator?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0063par0092	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0062par0093	Ocalan says so, explain. Say something for Ocalan.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0064par0097	The third word on the proposal, in favour of Sinop MP Nazim Mavis. Here you go, Mr. Blue.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0065par0100	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the HDP group proposal. I salute your high council. Of course, the three important figures in the group's proposal are the three individuals who are at stake for our nation, who have been persecuted by their opposition to official ideology, and are of common value to all of us. THE EC PARTY spent 13 years in power to destroy the remains of the former Turkey and fight against the former Turkey. But I would like to start by saying right now that despite all of this, we are against political abuse of the bodies of the martyrs over the bodies of the dead. Again, at the beginning of my words, I would like to declare that I don't think HDP is sincere about this, because we have all witnessed together under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that trying to collect political rants from all kinds of holy and event, including the dead, has become one of the basic political behaviors of HDP. On the other hand, given the values and ideology of the HDP, I think it is difficult to establish their relationship with these 3 values. The HDP is a political extension of a fascist organisation that claims to represent the Muslim Kurdish people but is based on a Marxist-Leninist ideology. Anyone who knows the life of His Holiness Said Nursi, who reads his work, knows that the values that HDP is representing are the values that he is fighting against at Badiuztime. In time, sheikh Sait and Seyit Reza are the values of this land. Right or wrong, they've come up with ideas and solutions for this land, feeding on the value of this land. If you had looked for the solution to the problems of this geography in Marxist or Leninist theory, if you had looked for it in the prescriptions of Badizcece time, in the risales, we wouldn't be discussing your sincerity here today. If you were sincere today, Turkey would be one of the most peaceful countries in the region and in the world. You put the word "peace" in your tongue the most, but peace presented such a photograph in your language that it appeared to be a synonymous word for forcing the people of the region to emigrate. Again, in the language of the political line you represent, it has become a threat to those who have to migrate. ▪ Peace became a means to bring blood to dams, water, roads. ▪ Peace has become a means of war, leaving aside all the positive values that the concept of peace holds. The peace has become a value that you reject with your tongues and with your heart and with your actions and with your practices. And today, while we will be the most peaceful country in the region and the world, unfortunately, we have become the country that is struggling with terrorism. You haven't had the courage to condemn the terror of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) who bombed mosques and used violence on imams from this stand once. You said Friday prayer, this is Darulharp, water, electricity bill. You said, "Don't pay the electricity bill." Then you went out and fought the values represented by Friday prayer and Friday prayer. And the cities of the poor were burned down, and the cities of the poor were destroyed. You watched as the PKK burned them. Those who burned the ashes of Said Nursi, who were called out to the streets by you on September 6, 7, 8. At the time built by the Foundation for Knowledge and Culture in Van. Said Nursi was burned, destroyed, millions of damage were done, and now you've seen it, and now you're out and you're saying it's sad. Said Nursi said, "The union," he said, "The people have struggled with these concepts." In this country, all unsolved murders must be revealed, yes; all lost graves in this country must be searched, found; my class must be investigated in this country, but not by those who exploit everything. You've only taken such things in your tongue to exploit them until now. We've all seen together in this House how you're trying to get political credit from funerals. The people of this country have not forgotten and will not forget what you did at the funeral of the terrorist in Ankara. Now you want to exploit the graves of Bedizceh, Sheikh Sait, and Seyit Reza. Time tells us that we have three enemies: ignorance, necessity and conflict. We've been engaged in a struggle based on ignorance, knowledge, skill. While we were struggling with ignorance, trying to glorify the skill, you tried to turn Kurdish children into victims of ignorance and death in ditchs. You have not granted life to the foundations or associations who are trying to conduct educational activities in the region. We are the greatest enemy of Zaruret. While fighting the arts against poverty, necessity, backwardness, while fighting the technique, while you continued to destroy dams, while fighting the development, while you continued to remain silent to those who bombed the roads. We built dams to destroy poverty, we built airports, and you couldn't tell the people who bombed these dams, the airports, the people who opposed them once, from this Parliament, you couldn't condemn them. Again, when we were young, our greatest enemy was the conflict. We tried to fight the alliance against the enemy of conflict, with the instrument of inspiration, with the prescription for revelation. We've been referring to a thousand years of brotherhood in this country, and you don't give life to those who aren't yourself. You're always uncomfortable when the name of Yasin Börür is mentioned here, but I want to say that Yasin Börür represents those who are not like you, Yasin Börür is just a representation. What happened to Yasin Börür is your ideology, your politics. The martyrdom of Yasin Börür puts a symbol on the attitude and behavior of the Muslim Kurds in the region - those who are not in the same line as you. Dear MPs, it is possible to find parallels and similarities between the world that HDP has imagined and the world of those who have persecuted Badiztime. Just as those who persecuted Bediuz Zaycema, Seyit Reza, Sheikh Sait (Sheikh Sait) are fed by a single type, authoritarian and antidemocratic channel, so is the political ideology that HDP is sitting on today, from a single type, authoritarian and antidemocratic channel, a tradition. We saw the most concrete examples of this very clearly, very concretely, in the days of our lives. You have once again shown once again that these allegations, which I have said, are in fact undeniable from your point of view, by keeping silent from PKK terrorist organization's practices in Turkey and practices in Syria. Your sincerity will always be discussed in this House as long as you express that you are holding your back on a terrorist organization organized in a Marxist-Leninist ideology. But if one day you come out of this parliament and you tell the military of this state, the police, the same words you say to the PKK terror organization, the armed elements, and condemn them most violently, then we will stop questioning your sincerity, but as long as you don't do so, this Parliament will continue to question your sincerity. Your use of the body of His Holiness Said Nursi for your political ideology will be the greatest torment to the spiritual person of the master, and it will be the greatest torment to Seyit Reza, and to the spiritual figures of Sheikh Sait. We want to make it clear from here that we will not allow it and that we will not say yes. I'm sorry, as long as you're sincere, there'll always be ground to talk about, but as long as you can't put that distance between you and terrorism here, we won't be able to support them because of your insincereness, even if we're thinking about the suggestions or proposals that you've come up with. With these thoughts, I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0066par0118	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0067par0119	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0066par0120	The speaker's speech is already full of taunts. Because of the taunting of our group, we're going to have to talk to Coral Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0067par0121	Mr. Danış Beştaş, I'll give you two minutes for bullying. Please, let's not afford another tease. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0068par0125	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the truth is, it's impossible to answer the conversation in two minutes, but let me simply say that, first of all, we say that AKP is difficult to establish our relationship with values. The current AKP power cannot be reached with any value. He doesn't value anything because human beings aren't worth anything. And I would like to stress in particular that there are no political parties that can compete with the AKP's power in not recognizing human values that are developing in the world. We're talking about values that don't have a headstone. I want to make it very clear to you that we've come up with this much to bring us up to date, and we've come to regret accusing us of it and accusing us of abuse. I really laughed, I didn't believe it, but he blamed us as one type and antidemocratic. I mean, I'm going to fight monotheism, dictatorship, antidemocratic practices, bans, corruption and poverty. I want to remind them specifically that we are now a country on a record level of corruption and poverty. We, for the moment, would like to say in particular, that you put some distance between you and ISIS first. At present, a bomb has exploded in Brussels, 34 people have lost their lives, Istanbul has exploded, and ISIS is a problem for the whole world.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0069par0127	Do you resent it?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0068par0128	Those who feed ISIS and make it this way, first put a distance between them and themselves. And the AKP is not fighting PKK, terrorism, with this; it is fighting the people, it is waging war on the people in Kurdish provinces. Hundreds of civilians, children, women are killed, cremated, funerals, and they're still building it on a lie with the concept of terrorism and terrorism.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0069par0129	You lie with your eyes open.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0068par0130	And we never believed in your sincerity, and Turkey doesn't believe in your sincerity.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0070par0131	We believe in you a lot! PKK people are coming out of the sewers.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0071par0132	The people don't believe you, people.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0068par0133	You're an abusive party to enter the Guinness Book of Records on abuse. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If it works for the AKP, you see it as acceptable; if it doesn't work, you reject it with the back of your hand.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0072par0137	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0073par0138	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0072par0139	Mr. President, the PARTI has a public war. He's made a lot of accusations, Mr. Speaker, and I'd like to answer with your permission.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0073par0140	I'll give you two minutes. Please don't challenge a new taunt. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0074par0145	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Since we can't get on the agenda, as usual, we'd like to conduct our meetings with Suhulet, our General Assembly, but knowingly, there are so many harsh accusations, so unfair criticisms that it's no longer the answer to those accusations. Look, the AK PARTY is fighting the people. What part of a statement should I answer, and what part of it should I tell you? The AK PARTY, where the government is now fighting in one -- in the nail -- is with the villains, terrorists, and those who have ruined the southeast. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Other than that, put some distance between you and the light. In the heart of Ankara, when the PKK does its worst terrorist activities, those who do not say a word when ISIS does it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0075par0149	We condemned them both.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0074par0150	False approaches, hypocritical approaches are the truth that the public sees. So we say, "Every one of these terrors is cursed; so is ISIS, so is the PKK, and so is DHKP-C." If you're sincere, you need to react to all the terrors. Terror, terror in Brussels, terror in Tiram, and terror in Ankara. You won't make a sound to them, but dig a hole, dig a ditch, kill the security forces of this country, beyond that, civilian people, but when there's a little criticism about it, you'll use the harshest expressions. And who's gonna drive? Just yesterday, on a spring holiday celebrated by our entire region, like Nevruz, he'll say that there were rallyers with Kalashnikov photos behind him. Get the fuck out of here! Have a nice day.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0076par0154	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0077par0155	Just a moment, Mr. Baluken. Mr. Akçay asked for a word, and then I'll listen to you. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0078par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. I recommend that the last speaker who spoke on the stand just now on behalf of the Justice and Development Party re-read his speech from the AKP Group's deputy president and as the government, Mr. Minister's transcripts. Two things are remarkable. If you tell the police what you said, we'll give you the right. This is in need of discretion, Mr. Secretary, one. Second: Sheikh Sait and Seyit expressed Reza as common values of the nation, which we absolutely refuse. Seyit Reza and Sheikh Sait are not the common value of the Turkish nation. They are feudal gentlemen who rebel against the Republic of Turkey, feudal gentlemen who advocate tribal order. If there are these now, if there are PKKs, then there are them in 1937, 1938. What value do they stand for? What kind of value is that? Please, let them clear their opinions, their mental state, the Justice and Development Party and the government clear their views on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0079par0166	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0080par0167	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0079par0168	Mr. President, the speaker speaking on behalf of the AKP has made an open taunt of our party again.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0081par0169	What did I say, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0079par0170	He said we didn't condemn the attack on Ankara, that we appeared when the ISIS attacked.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0082par0171	Here, I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's finish this polemic, let's not afford another taunt.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0079par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, now 78 million people are listening to us. For one thing, the subject of this motion is the return of three valuable figures, three people who are considered pioneers to the Kurdish people, with a gravestone placed in their graves, a read by their children, their grandchildren. There are 78 million people here who will be watching you raise your finger and reject this motion by diluted this issue over current polemics. And then you come out here and you make nice things about Sheikh Sait, and Seyit Reza, and Badiztime, I'm sorry, no one will believe it. You've been in power for 14 years, and for 14 years, these precious people haven't had a gravestone. You're determined to sacrifice this to the polemics, to use this council bench, we understand that. On the other hand, to say that we don't condemn the attack on Ankara is to tell a clear, big lie. We've said it over and over, and we've made statements to the public.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0083par0178	Why did you go to the terrorists' funeral?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0079par0179	In all the attacks that target civilians, we have publicly condemned those attacks, without distinction, without authority, without purpose.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0083par0180	Who went to the terrorist's funeral?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0084par0181	Tell me why you went to the funeral of the live bomb.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0079par0182	But we will ignore the government's responsibility, and we have not signed under a list of omissions that will exonerate you, and we will continue not to. You're the one who's two-timing here.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0084par0183	Tell me why you went to the funeral of the live bomb.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0079par0184	Look, when ISIS attacks, you don't sign a three-party declaration, do you? The fact that three parties have never signed a declaration in any attack by ISIS shows your hypocrisy.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0084par0185	Tell me why he went to the funeral of the live bomb, your proxy.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0079par0186	In the support of ISIS, we no longer need to say anything. Bombs are being detonated in Brussels, consulates, embassies are being shut down in Istanbul.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0084par0187	Why are you going to the terrorist's funeral?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0079par0188	So you identified the name of this country with ISIS. Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0085par0190	Shame on you, you went to the terrorist's funeral!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0086par0191	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0087par0192	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0086par0193	For the record, I don't even have to answer: The fact that this country is being used in the same statement as ISIS is nothing but betrayal. Against all our terrorists, all of them...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0088par0194	But it is.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0089par0195	That's right, Mr. President, that's when they make the betrayal themselves; if Turkey comes to mind with the bombs that exploded in Brussels, if the embassies are being shut down, you're being betrayed. It's obvious who's inside the betrayal.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0090par0196	Sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0091par0197	Why are you bothering me?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0092par0198	Well, Mr. President, I wanted to answer here out of courtesy, but I'd like to answer from the stand for the sabotage of Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0093par0199	Here, I'll give you two minutes. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please, let's get this over with, lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0092par0203	Mr. President, I've spoken in Turkish, and I can say in other languages that both the DHKP-C, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and ISIS are terrorists, they're scoundrels! How else can I put this?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0094par0204	Supporters, too.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0092par0205	Other than that, yesterday, yesterday, it's not too old -- look, look at my example -- Kalashnikov in the back, you're giving a speech here. You get a little embarrassed, blushed, thinking, "What do I get out of this?" You get a little embarrassed. There's an AK back there, there's a photo, you're the ones giving the speech, your deputies.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0095par0206	Your aide media is making those photos.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0092par0207	And you don't say anything about it, and it's called the peace rally, the Kalashnikov in the back, peace in the mouth! All the public has seen your face, but keep it up, the people see you. Before, as you all know, there was an expression of a baby killer, which expressed a text, expressed a personality, and I congratulate you, you have gone beyond the expression of a baby killer, you have become the murderer of unborn babies. You were the killer of unborn babies, the six-month-old in the womb, and you couldn't apologize about it, and it's just...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0095par0209	Don't talk like that, don't talk like that, don't talk like that.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0096par0210	Miray, who killed the baby?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0092par0211	...you went to that man's funeral and paid your respects there. This is your deputy at that terrorist's funeral: we attend the funeral of the terrorist from the PKK and are on his way. They say we're on our way. The text and your newspapers. Look...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0095par0212	You're lying, you're lying!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0092par0213	Am I lying? Come here, apologize...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0095par0214	No, you're lying. Who's on your side?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0092par0215	Okay, I'll tell you again: a six-month-old baby died last Ankara attack; you're the killer of the unborn baby. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0095par0218	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0097par0219	After Miray killed the baby, you went and threatened his family.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0095par0220	So there's no need to explain it, saying you're a murderer...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0098par0221	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. I'll give you two minutes...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0099par0223	You threatened the Miray baby's family to testify differently. I talked to him myself. The Miray baby was a month and a half.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0098par0224	Congressmans, we're not going to be partners in terrorism, but what are we going to be partners in? For God's sake, let's not put polemics on this, let's finish this, let's finish ISIS, let's get PKK, let's get all kinds of terrorist groups under our feet, let's curse them together, what else can we do? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0100par0228	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0101par0229	We're on our way. Mr. President, just two days ago...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0100par0230	For one thing, I'd like to point out that this is not the way a group of vice presidents should express themselves here.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0101par0231	We saw it last week! You swore at me!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0100par0232	Every time you're on the stand, you provoke the same...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0101par0233	Me?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0100par0234	But since you've shown this level of inadequacy, I'm multiplying and returning to you all the statements you're using here. We've never been in a position to legitimize any action, any action that kills babies...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0102par0236	Why did you go to the terrorist's funeral?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0100par0237	...but you, in Şırnak, Cizre, have publicly defended the practices of the people who slaughtered the baby in the belly of an 8-month-old pregnant woman, and have come from this stand and tried to legitimize those people. So, if there's going to be a definition of murder on him, I suggest that the group vice president just look in the mirror. On the other hand, all of those photos you showed, all of those photoshopped, photoshopped, all of those things your aide media did.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0102par0239	The whole world's seen it live! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0100par0240	Our messages in Neuroz Square yesterday were clear, a message of negotiation, a message of resolution, a message of peace.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0102par0241	You call it peace, murder!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0100par0242	With public order, you've put the Kurds in a position where I can't get into their home, where the Turks can't get out of their homes, where they've been given a message that they need to get out of here as soon as possible.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0103par0243	You've learned a new sentence!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0100par0244	I'll tell you about ISIS, there's no need to use such hamasi sentences, it's in the Parliamentary transcripts, your ministers have answered. Between 2014 and 2015, export figures between Turkey and ISIS from Tel Abyad Border Gate and Cerablus Border Gate moved to Parliamentary reports. You haven't been aware of the budget talks, but that $6 million, $7 million trade will come in front of you and will make sure that you are tried in international criminal courts for your dealings with ISIS. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0104par0247	Mr. President has openly accused me of inadequacy. I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0105par0248	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0104par0251	Mr. President, dear friends, at least it's a step in the middle of what Mr. Group Vice President said, and I congratulate you, first of all, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0106par0252	We were there, we were there, we were in Diyarbakır, we were in Nevroz.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0104par0253	Second: We watched live the footage he described as the montage.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0107par0254	Where did you watch it? You're lying, you're lying!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0108par0255	Where did you watch it?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0109par0256	Yeah, we were there, we said we were in Diyarbakir!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0110par0257	Third, we have a folder file. There is no need to be too clever to say that HDP could not distance itself from terrorism, but there are documents, hearings, conversations. I congratulate you on the fact that you said "montaj" but your expression of inadequacy is pride for me.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0109par0258	You can't call a congressman a murderer, you can't call a group a murderer.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0110par0259	It's my pride to be told by a group of vice presidents like you that I'm not offended by what they say about terrorism. You can say it without order, and I'll be level. It's okay, I'm comfortable with it. But last week, I showed you how badly the congressman next to you insulted you, how he cursed you, how we talked on the phone, how I texted you. Did you do something about him? What level are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0109par0260	You haven't sent any messages.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0110par0261	The people next to you, they're going to curse us, they're going to insult us, you're never going to tell our group about them, we're here to say that we have a human demand for terrorism, a human demand... look, your own vice president, DHKP-C has expressed his support for us, and we're proud of it. I didn't say that. Here, let me show you again.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0111par0262	That speech is attributed to me, that speech is a lie.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0110par0263	Let me go on, that person, the six-month-old person whose baby died. Let me go on, which ones should I tell you about?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0112par0264	Lies!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0111par0265	Lies, lies!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0110par0266	That's a six-month-old baby in a little box. That's your deputy who said, "We're on his way. We're proud." Which one should I tell you about?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0112par0267	Yeah, you're trolling, trolling. Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0113par0268	No, I don't. It's your trolls and ally writers.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0110par0269	Therefore, we would be happy if you would deny it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0114par0270	We don't deny anything we do.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0110par0271	I wish you'd deny it, but I wish you'd try to be the party of this nation as a reasonable party. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit02spe0115par0274	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0115par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our discussion of the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Now, the final speaker against the proposal is İstanbul MP Abdullah Başcı. Here you go, Mr. Prime Minister. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0116par0010	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the HDP investigation motion. Of course, there may have just been public expectations of Saidi Nursi, Seyit Reza, Sheikh Said, and their graves, but in such a critical period, the coming of such a motion shows us that it is not genuine. Really, we see that it's very important to bring up such a motion when the whole world is dealing with terrorism. Of course -- he would have wanted -- that the parliamentary groups of our country, against the recent terrorist attacks, would all have to make a statement together. Unfortunately, the HDP abstained from this reprimand and did not vote. Yes, wherever he was, wherever he was, in such an environment, all political parties under the rule of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey had to come together to condemn our country for its integrity; unfortunately, they did not make this condemnation by making different excuses. Of course, we say that we are saying that both the PYD and the PKK and all the marginal groups, all the ISIS, but unfortunately, someone is being protected from this bench, someone is being used, someone is being tried to be a spokesman here. Over the course of the four months, in the five months, there have been unspeakable speeches from that bench, insults, insults to this state, insult to our military, insult to our President, insult to our Prime Minister, but believe me, if one percent of these insults were in the countries where you set an example, they'd be in trouble, throwing them out. But there's such a democracy in this country that he talks as he pleases. But it has to be known that this is the Republic of Turkey. When living in this country, everyone should know the principles of the Republic of Turkey in particular, making his speech according to him. So, now, I'm going to give you some examples. I don't know where to start. The talks made at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... just now, dear speaker, dear group speaker, when our vice president spoke, took after him the following words: "Where are we, what did we say, and why do you do such a lie?," they insisted. Look, I'll tell you something: 613 kilograms of explosives were found in Derek district of Mardin province on March 19th. Why are they carrying these explosives? Where are they taking him?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0117par0017	For peace!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0116par0018	Yeah, these explosives to blow up at rallies.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0117par0019	They'll make peace, peace!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0116par0020	Today, especially in the southeast, there is a struggle to the east. In this struggle, those terrorist organizations, who are using the oppressed and victims of the southeast in particular, are trying to make a move on this country. In fact, they saw that the PKK would not be able to pull it off -- 10 terrorist organizations gathered together -- certain forces out there were acting, and they said, "Let's bring together the 10 terrorist organizations. So let's send out our guns, our cannons, our tanks, everything. But, God willing, we give martyrs, yes, we give martyrs. This country will give it today, as it did martyrs in the past, but we're not going to make that move on our land, God willing. Believe me, what happened in the southeast, in Cleopatra, in Cizre, is said to be superficial, but go, now, look, talk to the people one-on-one, you know what they say? Save us from this disease. They say, "Yes, we have such a terror organization in our head, so save us from it." As the people begged, the oppressed and the victims came out of the stand, and he did it, and he did it, and he said it, and that's what he said. There's no point in saying it. Look, again, I'll try to tell you some things. There's a co-chair here who says, "We've got our backs on the PKK," "PYD." Unfortunately, he's not coming. Again, there are MPs attending terrorist funerals. Again, there are lawmakers involved in illegal demonstrations, and we all saw them together a few days ago. Again, there are those who slap the police of the state, their soldiers. Again, a congressman says: "We will bury the flag of fascism in the moats, we will hang our own flag of freedom." What does that mean? How do you fill this in? We think we need a good look at this. Again, there's actually a lot to talk about, but I just want to say this. Look, Mr. Group Vice President just showed me, but I want to show you a picture. Unfortunately, in their shadow, there is talk in the shadow of these weapons. Their minds are trying to encourage the public, but praise be to God, in this country now the situation of this PKK, the situation of this terrorist organization, is well understood by the southeast. All of us have seen in these recent demonstrations that the people are begging, saying, "Let this country, this state, take care of us, and save us from them." So there's no point in distracting this House by bringing things like this to change the agenda and giving speeches about it, because this House has a lot to do. I'll tell you something in a nutshell. In 1974, there was an Operation Peace in this country. That Operation Peace was very successful, but after Operation Peace, the United States made a statement -- let's gather our memory, those who know it well -- imposed an embargo on Turkey, bent our backs for ten years because we had to remove it with their weapons. But praise be to God, in the 2000s, when an outside phone call came in, when everyone was at their behest, in the 1980s, in the 1990s, when these events took place, thanks to the most stable leaders in this country -- yes, we have a president who comes out as the greatest leader in the world, and we have a Prime Minister, who's going to solve everything in his right mind. So, we stand up for them, we don't let anyone divide this country. For our future, for humanity, we all say, let's take better steps towards tomorrow. But we're also going to deal with these marginal groups. Our goal, hopefully, is to destroy those marginal groups soon, and continue to do what we need to do by protecting them and protecting them in the best way that we can, in the southeastern southeastern province, in the southeastern province, in the southeastern province, in Cizre, in Şırnak, in Şırnak, and in Idil. Of course, after this process, really, it's about the construction of the victims and the oppressed people... yeah, the soup kitchens moved there, and now they're doing construction work, and our government's compassionate hand reaches out there. Praise be to God, I hope we'll be rewarded for those efforts in the coming years. About the future of this country, I say we're going to break down the strength that the West and the different circles want to make a move and walk together. I made a promise on behalf of my group. He says we'll say no to this proposal, and I offer you all my respect and love.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0118par0028	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0119par0029	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0120par0030	What the hell happened? He called out to the terrorist organization, what's the matter with you?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0118par0031	Mr. Orator once again said we were political in the shadow of guns, and he was taunting us by showing some photographs.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0119par0032	Here, I'll give you two minutes. Please don't let us challenge a new taunt...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0120par0033	My president picked on the terrorist organization, not the HDP.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0118par0034	You're not listening.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0120par0035	We're listening.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0121par0036	Come in, come in, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0118par0039	If you're listening, you should know, there's been a lot of bullying on HDP from the start to the end.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0120par0040	He picked on the terrorist organization, not you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0118par0041	Yeah, when there's a lot of teasing around here, we're gonna get out there and we're gonna get some answers.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0120par0042	Are you a representative or a representative of terror?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0118par0043	Again, I would like to address all our citizens from here. The subject of the motion that we have discussed today is the extradition of Master Sheikh Said, Pir Seyit Reza, and the burial place of Saidi Nursi, and the burial ground of their graves. Notice that AKP speakers have not used a single sentence about this issue in their talks because they cannot use it. They've been in power for 14 years, the last speaker said they couldn't agree to this motion because we're going through a critical process, but in 14 years, you'll probably never be able to get out of this critical process, so you've seen too much of a gravestone for these valuable scholars and individuals.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0122par0044	You've just found out what it's worth!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0123par0045	Read his scriptures, then, and read his scriptures.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0118par0046	Here, of course, let me put it this way: I mean, if you keep talking that way, we'll give you the answers. However, important messages were delivered from Diyarbakır's southeastern province yesterday. So, despite the ban on gas, bat, arrests, detentions, arrests, all kinds of pressures in Diyarbakır, the hundreds of thousands and representatives of our party, once again, have said that the route to the areas is wrong and must be returned to the negotiating table -- to the solution table for the democratic future of our people and our country -- to be returned once again to the solution table. If that's the approach, believe me, we're not getting anywhere.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0123par0048	There's nowhere you want to go!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0118par0049	I mean, we don't fall short of growing answers, so rest assured.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0124par0050	People will give you the answer!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0118par0051	We never take a step back at the tipping point, no matter what the cost, but since there's no road, we're going to occupy this bench, this council...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0125par0052	On the contrary, on the contrary...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0118par0053	... I'm saying we should be trying to put out this fire. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In particular, on behalf of the ruling party, I specifically express the awareness that every speaker who speaks from this stand, every conversation he makes from this moment forward, will go down in history. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0126par0060	I submit the proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0118par0061	We'll ask for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0126par0062	I'll call the number of decisions I need.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0127par0063	Mr. President, you've taken a vote.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0126par0064	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0128par0065	No, no, no.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0129par0066	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0130par0067	Let's do it electronically, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0131par0068	Yes, the proposal is not accepted, there is enough to decide. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Tuesday (22/3/2016), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. Tuesday (22/3/2016), 23/03/2016 Wednesdays and 24/3/2016 Thursdays at 21 p.m. He's been advised to work until 00. In favour of the proposal, the first statement belongs to Aydın MP Bulent Tezcan. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0132par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, first of all, we lost 34 people in Brussels because of a traitorous terrorist attack, 34 victims of a terrorist attack. In the same process, we received three more casualties in our country. No matter where both terrorist attacks come from, whatever its source, it is an attack on all humanity and its values, and we condemn it from the heart. Terror has no nationality, terrorism has no ideology, terrorism has no faith, terrorism has no morals, terrorism has no law; for him, there is nothing acceptable about standing next to terrorism for one reason or another. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we must always have a clear stance on this issue. Dear friends, we're having a discussion about the working time of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Look, there's been an issue of immunity, especially recently, which has occupied the agenda of Turkish politics. Insisting immunity is being brought up as the blackmail material of politics and the parliamentary process, and it is being discussed in this framework. We, the Republican People's Party, have always argued that the issue must be resolved on a constitutional scale. The office of the legislature is not the place where crime is protected, the dress, the guise. The office of parliament is not a place of privilege to protect terrorism, to protect corruption, to protect theft, to protect crime. The parliamentary immunity is an institution developed and brought only to ensure the right of the MP to do politics. Unfortunately, we have been faced with such a painting, which has long been used in Turkey as the privilege of using parliamentary immunity as a criminal act, and has been constantly brought up as a blackmail tool in this framework. My fellow lawmakers, look, our position is very clear, and we, the Republican People's Party, in the parliamentary immunity of the Constitution's 83th Amendment, are arguing that there should only be parliamentary immunity as a Republican People's Party, but other than that, immunity should be removed. Immunity should not be privileged beyond the immunity of the bench. Where does that come from? The way to do so is to change Article 83 of the Constitution. The radical solution is to change Article 83, and to change it in this frame. Now, when we look at this painting, Mr. Prime Minister has a suggestion, he says: "Come, let's bring in a temporary item, let's put 507 existing files in total at once." Well, good, let's do it with a temporary clause. So, are we going to solve the problem permanently? No. Where's the source of the problem? Article 83. Are we changing him? No. What do we do with the temporary stuff? We're taking a temporary, palliative precaution in our own way. So why are we doing this with a temporary clause? Is there a difference between the time needed to change Article 83 and to make a permanent arrangement, time, work, and the time needed to add temporary materials? No, they both have the same procedure, we'll do the same work for both of them; they're both subject to constitutional amendments, both require the same vote. Then why do we try to make permanent adjustment of the original material and avoid the problem with temporary measures when we can solve it? I wonder if the background of this work is: "What has happened so far has come to a certain point, so let us be in this armor tomorrow. " Parliament has to ask the question: "Today we have added the temporary clause to the Constitution, followed by 507 files so far, a week later another crime has been committed, another verb has been committed, what will happen in the armor of immunity?" Why? What's happened so far is not allowed, and what's happened after today is free? Is it a crime, a crime, a crime after this day? Is there such a rule of law? Or another question: Well, dear friends, now, today we've added the temporary ingredient. We've made a change in the temporary clause, but a crime charge, a verb that was committed six months ago, has yet to be investigated. We've dispatched the investigation, the fezlekemesi, which began, without giving the right to defend, ignoring the Constitutional Court's right to appeal, removing all defence opportunities, without making a distinction as to whether or not it's under the immunity of the bench. Thanks, let's do that. So, how are we going to explain the inequality between these two lawmakers in the same period, if a verb was committed six months ago, for example, because the prosecutor didn't hold a trial, which he didn't show up in two months? So when we say let's set something straight, do we really want to open the door to not editing? Dear friends, look, we have to answer another question. We've transferred 507 files in total, temporary matter. All right, let's do it, we'll give you backup. How, though, will the answer be given: What about the assurance given to ministers in the 100th article of the Constitution? We've removed the MPs's, so what about the ministers? The 100th article is there. So, what about them? Will their privilege of committing crimes continue during the same period? So, look, here's the thing: we're going to have a principled attitude. Let's take Article 83, let's bring it in, it's the same procedure, let's change it, let's solve the problem radically. No, we'd like to make arrangements with a temporary clause. If you say, well, then, let's come to that. But there has to be some kind of consistency to the arrangement we're going to make with the interim matter. So far, we need to make an arrangement that will include the status of lawmakers in this framework, whether they start their investigation or not, all of them within the same status. During the same period, there is no law against ministers, prime ministers, prime minister of the period, no law against the public, no freedom for the prime minister, no law against the parliament, no freedom for the minister. Bring it in, let's edit it again with the interim material, but let's spend it all together in a structure that will provide equality. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, look, if you're saying that if you're saying that we should put it all in the sack without even giving a congressman the right to defend it, then you're going to have to open a door that will include the one who doesn't start the investigation in any way, or we're going to have to solve it with a fundamental change in Article 83. These things are not solved by palliative means, they are not solved by lying pehlivanism by calling them "hodri squares." If you are present, let us change Article 83, or we will make an equitable arrangement that will cover everyone. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0133par0096	The second word on the proposal belongs to İstanbul MP Razza Karakcı Kan. Here you go, Mr. Crowder Blood.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0134par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we've had a busy 13-day budgetary negotiation process -- and the General Assembly's work has been suspended for a while -- and we've all worked day and night together in that process, and I want to thank all the respected lawmakers who have supported us. Of course, according to the General Assembly's working hours, Article 54 of the Interior Charter (Second Law) states: "If there is no official holiday, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will be held on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday at 15 p.m. It gathers from 00 to 1900. The General Assembly may decide to hold meetings here in the General Assembly, as well as in the weeks, days and hours of the meeting. We have, you know, from the beginning, made proposals to continue working until the work is completed by the General Assembly, which has been agreed. I'm a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission. Many nights, until 5:45 a.m., we worked to get international contracts, contracts sent to the Parliamentary General Assembly through here. At times, we sat at this time as representatives of the Commission, and at times we sat at this time. We all know what challenges we've been through. But why did we do it? Because our people are waiting for service. We had to pass many international agreements from the Foreign Affairs Commission, especially from earlier times, that had been a tough guy in the 24th term, and we still need to pass them, which should be in the interest of our country as soon as possible. You know, as a ruling, we're trying to get through these agreements, or we're trying to advance the work, but the opposition, you know, backs up the opposition from time to time, does a lot of work to stop the system from working, and sometimes it succeeds. Look, we've come this far, we haven't made the real agenda of the House yet. So, I don't know why the precious CHP Group made this suggestion, let's go home at nine. Believe me, I want to go home, I want to see my family early, but, you know, our people are waiting for service. We're ready to work until morning, just like we did before. For him, we can't possibly accept this proposal.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0135par0103	We already said 9:00 a.m.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0136par0104	There's no one, but look, there's no one in the seats.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0137par0105	I'm going to see you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0138par0106	We're still working. It is not possible for us to accept this proposal. We said. Why isn't it possible? Because our people are waiting for service. What kind of services do you expect? You know that better than I do. Expected services, national services; international contracts are expected to pass; we have budgets for our universities; they need to move forward; those who work on commissions know that the commissions have to come here, but as I just said, it's ten to seven; ten to seven; we haven't done anything yet. So if we don't change this Civil Code, we'll continue to work like this if we don't make it more effective. Sir, some services have been made. I didn't want to talk much about the services, but there are services that are expected. We need to look where we came from, and we need to see where we came from. We've come a long way in terms of human rights and freedom, and we've come a long way in terms of freedom of faith. From time to time, it is said that those fighting fought and won. It is true, there have been great struggles on Kurdish rights, on the rights of Alevi in this country, on many other rights and freedoms. Yes, the struggles have also been successful, but they have been in this country for decades. Is it purely a coincidence that in the AK PARTY, these struggles had a positive outcome, that we were able to say things that we couldn't even imagine ten years ago on that council bench? Let us not ignore the contribution of the EC PARTY in this matter. In this country, I am Kurdish. I was forbidden to say that serving in this country as a headscarf was forbidden; in this country, Alevi citizens were forbidden to speak or express their demands, and there were difficulties in the fight for the rights of Armenian citizens, Christian citizens; where did we come from? It wasn't by chance, it was the result of the study, and the work of a government that was the voice of the oppressed followed. He told me about Syrian citizens, the speakers before. Yes, we were only prepared for 100,000, prepared for 200,000, finally hosting 2.7 million brothers and sisters. For him, the world's oppressed pray for this country, pray for it to be a successful government in this country, and support it. In different parts of the world, people we don't know their names by day and night, maybe some of them by non-religious people, people from different world views, pray. And finally, I'd like to finish with this, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk about perception management. When I spoke on this General Assembly bench earlier, I stated that terror is not the color of religion, of language, of race. Some speakers used similar expressions. There's no good in terror, my terrorist is good, your terrorist's bad. His perception is wrong. Terror is terror. And the people responsible for the murder of innocent citizens are terrorists. The explanation, the definition is very clear, clear. Sir, a terrorist organization is a good terrorist organization, another terrorist organization is a bad terrorist organization. It is absolutely impossible to accept a perception. We do not accept CHP's proposal as an AK PARTY group to keep working hours short. Because our country, citizens, citizens of other countries are expecting our services, we will vote against it, and even if it's night or night, maybe we're ready to work against human rights. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0139par0115	Thank you. The second word in favour of the proposal belongs to Manisa MP Erkan Akçay.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0140par0117	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0139par0118	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0140par0119	I said I'd speak in the group proposal of the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0139par0120	Sorry.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0140par0121	I mean, what did you do about it, Mr. Turan?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0141par0122	How, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0142par0123	Talk in this one and talk in that one, dear, what difference does it make?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0140par0124	We just spoke to Mr. Ramadan, so there will be no confusion. When I spoke to Ramadan Can....I said that I would speak in the group proposal of the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0143par0125	All right, then.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0140par0126	But, you know, if we can talk about both of them, let's talk about it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0143par0127	Now you are seen in the demands of my commitments. Second and final speaker against Samsun MP Hasan Basri Kurt. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0144par0131	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the CHP Group regarding the general council's working hours. I salute you all. Of course, we've had two budgets at a very busy pace since the House started working. We got out of the election, we made promises to our people. Of course, there were promises made by opposition parties, and they would understand. The legislature's working pace continued in a very intense way. In the General Assembly, look, it's been this hour, we still haven't been able to pass our main law. And on the last day before the budget, we were able to pass just one item of the law that we're going to continue today, ten hours a day, two to twenty-four hours a day. We really need a lot of work. The reforms are waiting. We have a process of European unity, you know, and a lot of reform agendas are ahead of us. Of course, the main discussion about the extension of our working hours is actually an argument about the Civil Code. We've also seen motions given to executives, enforcement materials, and they're spoken for separately. We've also seen that there's a lot of talk traffic outside the agenda of the House. In our talks about an agreement with a country in Africa, we listened here for twenty minutes to Bitlis' problems or to Denizli.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0145par0135	Are they nothing?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0144par0136	We're aware that this is a fundamental challenge, and we know that it's a human condition, but unless there's a change in the Civil Code, we'd like to continue our work until the end of time, as in our next proposal. On this occasion, I salute you all and express that we will vote as a group.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0146par0139	Thank you very much. I submit the proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0147par0141	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0146par0142	Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Tuesday (22/3/2016), I request that the following proposal be submitted to the General Assembly's approval under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's 168, 149 and 170 draft laws in the section of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" are to be taken into the ranks of 2, 3, 4 and 5th, respectively, and the order of other tasks is to be considered according to this. Twenty-two, 29 March 2016 to 5, 12, 19 and 26 April 2016 on Tuesday (April 2016), the talks of verbal questions and other audit issues were not discussed on the agenda in "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions," 23 March 30 2016 to 6, 13, 20 and 27 April 2016 when verbal questions were not discussed, On Tuesday, March 22, 2016, until the completion of the first chapter talks of Bill 117 in the merger of Tuesday (today), On Wednesday (March 23, 2016), until the completion of the talks of Bill 117, in the merger of Wednesday's unification, Until the meeting of Thursday (March 24, 2016) of the 149th Bill of Laws until the completion of the talks, On Friday (March 25th 2016), outside of the General Assembly's weekly working days, on Friday (March 25th), 2016, in the event that the talks were not completed during Thursday's merger of the works leading up to 149 rows (March 24, 2016). Gathering at 00, in this day's merger, until the meeting of the agenda of "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Jobs From Commissions" and the negotiations of the affairs of 149 rows are completed, Until the meeting of Tuesday (March 29th, 2016), until the meeting of the 29th Amendment, Until the meeting of Wednesday (March 30, 2016) to the completion of the talks of business until Bill 34th of the Legislature, Until the meeting of Thursday (March 31st 2016), until the meeting of the Legislature No. 39th, was completed, On Friday, April 1, 2016, outside of the General Assembly's weekly working days. Meeting at 00 p.m., in today's merger, until the meeting of the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Other Jobs From Commissions" and the meeting of the work until the meeting of the Law Bill 44th, It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. At 00 a.m., if the day's schedule is incomplete, until the day's schedule is complete, On Wednesdays and Thursdays, as mentioned above, the General Assembly's 14 o'clock. It's time to pack up at 00, Apart from the combinations mentioned above, the 26th term is 3:00 (24) on Tuesdays until the end of the first year of the First Legislature. 00, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 2400/24. Between 00 hours, Keeping up his work, In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code of Laws 149 and 170 rows, the main law shall be considered and its sections shall be as follows: It's recommended. The first word in favour of the Justice and Development Party's proposal is from Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0148par0173	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our party in favor of the AK PARTY proposal. I salute you all. You know, Friday was the anniversary of March 18th. We celebrated our 101st Sea Victory with great pride, with the presence of our President and Çanakkale, and with the great gratitude of our people. Çanakkale is the first word of Turkey; Çanakkale is the capital of our national epic, our national consciousness. I don't think Turkey understands Çanakkale. When we look at many of the issues that have upset our Turkey's agenda, what is the solution, I think it will be seen that all of these claims will be without foundation in return for the reflection of the spirit in Çanakkale. I think Turkey looks at Çanakkale and sees Turkey, who sees Çanakkale. If any of us does not see Çanakkale, who does not come to Çanakkale, who does not see his son Çanakkale, I strongly suggest that we go to Çanakkale. It is with pride and pride that the Turk and the Kurdish, the Bosniak and the Albanian, the Arab and the Persians are together, how they fight against imperialism together, how they show the friend to the enemy, to everyone. Dear friends, I hereby celebrate and cherish our martyrs, veterans, and workers in Çanakkale again. As for our group proposal: In the EC PARTY group proposal, we hope to continue the discussions of the Civil Data Protection Act, which we have started in the past few weeks, including Friday, if we fail to complete the agenda. We'd like to be able to finish the agenda at more reasonable hours, more meaningful hours, but to get to the top of the agenda too late, based on the fact that the group proposals are busy, we have to revisit our working hours as the end of the day. In fact, under the Civil Code, we add Friday to Thursday's working time. In the same way next week, we predict that the bill on the establishment of the human rights institution will be discussed and, again, working from Tuesday to Friday and by the end of the day. We believe that these two laws -- you know -- are valuable within the scope of the European Union's visa-free travel and must be enforced immediately. Other than that, we'd like to discuss the bill of law on flexible work in the continuation of these two important laws. He'll be a great asset to our working life. Therefore, because we think that these two laws and our bill on working life, which we will evaluate in the visa-free travel title of the European Union, we are predicting the hours of work that we have described today and for 15 days until the end. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, our dear CHP Vice President, have just expressed his own opinion on immunity. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words about that. Immunity is a constitutional right to call lawmakers a well-known armor. Immunity is a right given in the parliamentary regime to allow the MP to do his duty without worry, to make himself comfortable, to reach the bench, and to speak as he pleases on the stand. I'm going to draw the bottom one time, and let there be no immunity in the parliamentary regime. I think an approach is a step that weakens the parliamentary regime. So, a demand for immunity to be removed is actually an approach that will break down the parliamentary regime, weaken the parliamentary legislature's work, increase the risks that are possible. So, it's not the removal of immunity, but what the public is waiting for, and what you're asking us to do, so let's not be untouchable. It's the issue of the proceedings that are now on the agenda when we look at what you're saying from our side, from our prime minister to the public. So, in principle, the parliamentary regimes are within the scope of the immunity of law enforcement, it's a right for the deputy to do his duty. However, immunity is a right to act as a deputy minister, or we will be neighbors of the PYD, carrying weapons in its vehicle, outside the parliament. Other than that, it is not a suit of armor to prepare the basis for relations that cannot distance itself from terrorism. I draw six times: the people who pay us taxes, the people who pay us... do your duty as regent, and the Constitution gives us this duty to make sure that the police don't stop you from coming here, that justice doesn't stop you, that you get your right to be a deputy. But other than that, we stand by the request of our Prime Minister to make it clear as soon as possible that a number of allegations stemming from missions outside the parliament will be brought to justice, as soon as possible. If you say, "All right." If you give us a hand, we will immediately discuss this issue in the relevant commission and anticipate the removal of the existing immunity files. The argument is, what happens next time there's an immunity claim? Yeah, that's a bet, that's a fact. Well, then the sit-down commission will take the necessary steps without specifying them, if it's already needed, but I think it's a major obstacle in the process of a parliamentary legislature with no immunity. You will not judge a teacher without the governor's permission, but you will say, "Go immediately, judge." So once again, it's an ontological issue, one of the basics of the separation of forces with three hairs. If there's a congressman, it's immunity, but if there's abuse, it's an exception, so we're not talking about the rule, we're talking about the exception. So, if it's about eating grapes, if we don't have a claim to beat up the farmer, let's talk about it as soon as possible, on the commission, one day, the second day at the General Assembly. If it's not more than just laying flour on the rope, let's see if it's a hand or a hand or a hand or a hand or a hand. We know what our own files are, we know what we lack or lack, we have no reservations, no hidden accounts. We want the immunity that the public is waiting for to be lifted as soon as possible. So, I hereby salute the General Assembly again, thank you all.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0149par0189	The first word against the proposal belongs to Istanbul MP Engin Altay. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0150par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. We say, "Let's judge those who divide the state, let's judge those who rob the state."
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0151par0195	We say they're all together. Come on, Engin Altay.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0150par0196	That's all we're saying, and as long as he's robbing, we want to keep the trial going, and we don't get along here. No flour on the rope. We, the Republican People's Party since 2002, have said and claimed that immunity should be restricted by the chair immunity. The Prime Minister or the President has a saying in the parliament that the parliament has been pollinating their shelves. It's called immunity files. I'd like to remind them that there are immunity files on the parliamentary shelves that have been dusted, but there are also cases of immunity that are molded, decayed, mushroomed, including counterfeiting, such as tampering with the tender, like the ECBIL. Come on, let's start there first, start with the oldest ones. Let's go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Of course, the terror thing is different, the running water stops. And in the matter of immunity for terrorist crimes...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0152par0200	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0150par0201	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0152par0202	I apologize. I think there's been a problem at the hour. We need to take a second and reboot.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0153par0203	Or did you show some resentment, Mr. President Altay?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0152par0204	We're just saying that so there won't be any interruptions.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0205	Now, then, ten minutes? Yeah, okay. Yes, Mr. Turan, okay? Let's judge the one who robbed the government, judge the one who did it, and we'll get the one who did it. Don't let the legislature give anyone special privileges, freedom to commit crimes. Mr. Congressman, Mrs. Razza, you've had a nice talk. Congress, normally, you know, works till seven, closes. However, a group of you who have already been accepted by your proposal has been agreed to work until the end of the oral questions, but we said in good faith: let's work until nine instead of seven. When good things happen in this House, when good things happen in the country, when the constructive proposals of the opposition are taken into consideration, Mr. Congressman, there is no need to be asleep here until five in the morning, at this time, in three days this Parliament has passed the law of 2,000 materials. Why do we bring a threatening group proposal to both your MPs and opposition lawmakers when we can look for this compromise? I'm curious about that, too. [[Applause from CHP rows]] When did we, as opposition, say no to all good things, for the good of the country? Show me one example, you can't show it. Let's have mutual goodwill. Mr. Turan doesn't understand Turkey that doesn't understand Çanakkale. It's very true, very beautiful. Yes, you say the first word, which is very true, and I sign under it. I say one more thing: The inspiration and inspiration of our salvation war, which is the cause of all of us, is Çanakkale, which is true. God rest his soul in the lakes of light, Seyit Corporal, Sergeant John, God bless them.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0155par0211	Mustafa Kemal too...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0212	But, I'm curious... In the battle of Çanakkale in your era, it is also to not understand Turkey, which is not as respected as Seyit Corporal and Sergeant Yehia. We have to understand Mustafa Kemal. You don't have to, you don't have to, you can criticize.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0155par0213	You're too late.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0214	Look, I know what I'm saying, but if you don't understand, you'll be scarce, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0156par0215	No criticism, we're against criticism.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0216	There's been a lot of talk about terrorism here, especially since I've just tried not to get in the ball: terrorism, relations with the terrorist organization, this, this.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0157par0217	Come in, come in!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0218	Now, if I tell you what Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Davutoglu, Mr. Bkent Arinc, Mr. Yalçın Akdoğan, Mr. Beşir Atalay, Mr. Sadullah Ergin, Mr. Yasin Aktay, Mr. Kuklu, Mr. Yilduk, you'll be blushing, I'm not telling you, I'm referring them to the conscience of the people. Let's bring it up. Dear MPs, Mr. Prime Minister has gone to Europe, there have been talks with the European Union, visa-free movement... of course, it seems that we will take the suitcase, we will take the job in Germany. There is no such thing. As a tourist trip, our citizens will be able to travel to the Schengen District without visas, passports, and visa problems for those with money are not much. I'm not saying that that's not what Turkey deserves, but this nation has already earned it. This society has already deserved to travel to the Schengen Region, Europe, all over the world without visas. Well, there are some conditions for that of the European Union. Well, of course there is. We have a intention to enter the European Union, and you have a condition that you claim from time to time to come into the European Union. I'll never forget, on December 17th, in broad daylight, you lit fireworks in Rediay Square, you had the Prime Minister's truck put on shows with 12-star European Union flag cars. I was in the 1st year of my parliamentary position at the time, and now I'm in the 14th year, and you didn't take a step, and you didn't take a step. Now that you've come, they've given us a homework assignment -- well -- we're going to implement 72 articles. It's not all the law, it's got regulations, it's got water, it's got this. We said, as the opposition: OK, bring in what is at the point of compliance with the EU criteria regarding the European Union's norms, Mr. Congressman, let's spend an hour, not a day, but an hour, shall we? Mr. Power Management, Your Honor... As always, I protest the government's contempt for Parliament. How about a Parliament without a member of the government?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0158par0222	He's gone for a drink of water, he'll be here soon!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0223	There's no government without that kind of power. I condemn this government! You should condemn it, you should condemn it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0159par0224	They'll work till morning!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0160par0225	They've gone for water, they'll come!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0226	Won't there be a government in this Parliament, Mr. President? Why don't you take the initiative on this? Now, last week, you gave us a list of members of the ruling party's group's vice presidents called the road map, the work and transactions.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0161par0228	The minister is here.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0230	Welcome, Mr. Secretary, welcome.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0162par0231	He's always been here.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0161par0232	My teacher was working, Hajji. The ministers are working.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0233	Ladies and gentlemen of the group, the vice presidents, the lawmakers...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0163par0234	Look at CHP. Look at CHP. The minister's bringing it in. I swear to God, he'll get it right away, so congratulations are in order.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0235	...now we say yes to them, Your Honor, we say yes to them. We have one condition, a very simple condition, a very acceptable condition. Why are you bringing these? In fact, it is what Turkish democracy deserves. I mean, if there was a test on democracy, we'd probably get zero out of ten, but as a government. Velev said that people...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0164par0236	Okay...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0165par0237	We got a full grade on November 1st.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0238	Yeah, take your time! How did you stop for nine months? Turkey, the Turkish nation, deserves the best of everything. Velev, there are some very good things here, very good things. In fact, if this passes, if we pass these, we'll be able to learn the cost of the illegal palace.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0166par0240	Inshallah!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0167par0241	The palace is not a fugitive.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0242	We'll be able to learn the cost of the runaway palace. But here's the thing...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0168par0243	Didn't he get the deed, the deed?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0244	Your Honor, lawmakers, the problem here is that if these are really EU norms, they'll be here in an hour, I promise, and if they really are EU norms, I promise on behalf of the main opposition party. But if you're going to add AKP norms into these norms, into the EU norms, there, there, here, we're not going to make you pass them through here. We're not going to be bandits, you're already crowded.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0168par0245	Aah!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0246	We use the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for a reason, we use it for a reason; I warn the government.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0168par0247	That's right, you can use it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0248	It's a separate job, delay your other dreams, apply them another time. Let's start with the personal data law, which is likely to start seeing each other today. There's something between us about the Board of Protection. Now, if that's the way the Board of Protection is handling it, if we can afford it, we're gonna have to try to make sure that this law doesn't come out, depending on the legal grounds that we have. So, is he gonna be okay? You've got all this homework, and you've got until June, and you can't finish it. I say -- you were not in Parliament -- this Parliament...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0168par0250	We'll work together, we'll work together, we'll finish, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0251	Osman, we'll make peace with you!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0168par0252	Okay.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0253	This Parliament is a Parliament that passed the 2,000-point law in three days. How did it happen? It happened in cooperation, in harmony, in the middle, in the right direction.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0168par0255	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0256	Our advice to you is that Turkey's interests are our top priority.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0169par0257	So do we.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0154par0258	For Turkey's interests, for the interests of this nation, the Republican People's Party is open to any responsibility, any sacrifice, so there's no insurgency involved, so that the EU norms can be based on, yes, upon you. We will resist the AKP norms to the end. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0170par0261	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0171par0262	There's bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0172par0263	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0170par0264	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0172par0265	Mr. President, for the record, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is our common denominator.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0173par0267	Little do you remember, and much do you remember Sergeant John.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0172par0268	Therefore, do not engage in political attraction through the common values of the nation.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0174par0269	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0172par0270	I'd like to commend CHP's democratic stance on this matter, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0175par0271	Yahu, Seyit Corporal has passed 16 times, Mustafa Kemal has passed 3 times in Çanakkale. Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0176par0272	You're counting them!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0172par0273	Mr. President, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0177par0274	Wait a second...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0178par0275	May God bless the Corporal and his place be in heaven; that is something else.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0177par0276	Congressmans, please... You said something...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0179par0278	I'd like a brief word from the stand.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0177par0279	Mr. Turan, please state from the stand. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll give you two minutes, no hard feelings.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0179par0284	Mr. President, I don't know why the high-value lawmakers, the VP, brought that up, but...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0180par0285	No, I opened it because you opened it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0179par0286	I, a young Turkish man, know this, to remember all of our veterans, all of our martyrs, from the work they've done to their commanders, from Seyit Sergeant to Mustafa Kemal.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0180par0287	Yes, it's beautiful.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0179par0288	I'm not obsessed with that.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0180par0289	Why are you offended?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0179par0290	So I say: Mustafa Kemal is the common denominator of this country; he is, in fact, one of the most important people in this country. I don't know why you have to fix this.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0181par0291	Yeah, who downloaded the picture? They haven't found it yet.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0179par0292	So I say, this is the government, the AK PARTI government, the government that raised their memories on all fronts in Çanakkale, from finding and restoring Mustafa Kemal's home in the village where he was born in Thessaloniki. Such accusations are far behind. Our people know exactly what's what. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0182par0295	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0183par0296	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0182par0297	I didn't accuse Bornt Turan. He was obviously taken over, and he knows it. I said: "Thanent Turan does not understand Turkey, who does not understand Çanakkale." He said: "He does not understand Mustafa Kemal. He does not understand Mustafa Kemalin Çanakkale. He does not understand the genius of Çanakkale. He does not understand the genius of Çanakkale in Çanakkale.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0184par0298	I'll recite Çanakkale, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0182par0299	I mean, no matter who's taking it personally, I'm happy with those statements from Bulent Turan. I just wanted it to go on record.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0185par0301	No, you said, "Seyit should have remembered the Corporal as well as Mustafa Kemal. " Of course, they are the common values of this country, like the republic, Mustafa Kemal.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0182par0303	I don't think we should discuss that, of course.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0185par0304	None of us should be exploiting any of this. The second word in favour of the group proposal belongs to Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0186par0311	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. For several hours, some debates have been carried out on common values. Yes, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is the common value of all of us as a nation, Seyit Corporal is the common value of all of us, but we also know that some of our ruling speakers have expressed Seyit Reza, and Sheikh Sait. May the Justice and Development Party please clarify your mentality, your opinion, your opinion on this matter. I'll remind you of that again. Now, dear friends, the ruling party, the government, the Prime Minister, is asking the opposition for support to pass some laws quickly. We've expressed our views on this in the past week and before that. Of course, all these arrangements that we see for the benefit of Turkey, we do our best to make sure that they come out quickly, and we contribute. There are many examples of that in the past. There have been such fundamental laws that within an hour, two hours, perhaps a thousand articles of Trade Law, like the Law of Debts, there have been more laws than we can know the number of which have been passed with the zeal of us as the Nationalist Movement Party. However, the government wants support, but it doesn't give information, so it needs to be very clear what it wants its support for, and it needs to be expressed by the government. Of course, Mr. Minister of National Education is extremely unlucky, the most unfortunate, when asked for information, he is the sentry, and he is only allowed to express it in one sentence, but the Ministry of the European Union, the Foreign Minister or a government spokesman must be able to shed light on the Turkish Grand National Assembly by studying the lesson. Whenever the ruling party is troubled by domestic policy and public opinion, it will certainly change the agenda, bringing some relations with the European Union to the public's agenda. We call it the nylon relationship. Again, there are signs of that. Now, it's October 3, 2005. Full membership talks with the European Union began during this period, during the AKP period. In those days, 2013 was marked for full membership. What year is it now? 2016. Are we talking full membership? No, we're having a midterm discussion. And did the government give any detailed information about what was achieved, what was gained at this summit between the European Union and Turkey in Brussels on March 18th? No. Virtual victory cries have been shouted, such virtual rhetoric has been developed. Whether there's victory or destruction or whatever, it's not very enlightened. Ha, referred to as historical, okay, so these talks are historical, of course, but from the usual capitalizations, some agreements, subcontractors, and arrangements have been made and will be made. So we say we have the right to ask. The AKP has agreed on March 17th which terms it has set for the deal, and they must be able to explain it from this platform. You present it as a victory for the public, but, for example, the Greek people don't say so, they write their own victories in their own press and the German press unfortunately swept the housing problem under the Turkish carpet. Don't say cartoons, dear friends. After the March 18th summit, the Greek Prime Minister describes the agreement as a positive development and says his country has escaped the danger of becoming a refugee warehouse, and in the same statement, Greek Prime Minister Turkey has been working quietly against him for ten days. The Greek Prime Minister says I've worked against Turkey. He says so. But didn't our Prime Minister host the Greek Prime Minister on March 8th? The bagels, tea, coffee were served; even the prime minister's office in İsmir is at your disposal; you can work whenever you want. Nevertheless, Greek Prime Minister says he has made an effort against Turkey. Now, you know, there was talk of a Kayseri negotiation. There is talk of taking another 3 billion euros with these 3 billion euros. Dear friends, Turkey receives 9.5 billion euros from the European Union in its accession process, and the government leaves this 9.5 billion euros and pursues 3 billion euros. We'd like to remind you of that in particular. Another thing, dear friends: there's no need to dilute the issue of these immunitys, dear friends. It's clear who's saying what, what all the parties have in their programme for immunity, what's in their election statements, what's promised, and what's the last reason for this immunity debate, and why. Let no one try to dilute the matter; let him determine his conduct, and his conduct, in a manner of principle, by making his priorities known. Now, dear friends, we've just been discussed, and it's important to have a common attitude towards terrorism as a nation, as a country, and as politicians, and that's why we've been given statements from time to time. And in the last two attacks, both February 17th and March 13th, we've made a joint statement as three political parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; as the National Movement Party, the Republican People's Party and the Justice and Development Party; and the two joint statements are to all terrorist actions and all terrorist organizations that have been committed so far; this organization, this organization, this organization, has not been discriminated against. I'd like to bring this to special attention. And also, of course, to sign or make these statements will never remove the responsibility of the ruling party, the government, all our criticisms are stable, but unfortunately, the situation in our country is essential because of its urgency. Our country has been transformed into a country surrounded by terrorist organizations; one of the attacks ends, the other begins, our citizens are concerned about life and property. For one thing, we need to feel this sense of security in all our citizens and our nation. And the way to do that is out of the government's attitude and the government's ability to give that confidence, dear friends. Now, this document you see in my hand, my dear friends, the terrorist organization's letter for extortion, sends it to citizens. Can we talk about safety in the city, safety in the city, property security, state authority in a country where the terrorist organization sends recklessly taxing? We can't. And now, mosques where prayer can't be performed and football matches that can't be played are gaining prevalence. Now, there was just a moment ago the government spokesman, Mr. Survivor, who will be playing without an audience for the very intelligence we received regarding the postponement of this Galatasaray-Fenerbahçe match. After that, the game was completely postponed. Now, of course, we have the right to ask, dear friends, what do you mean by very serious intelligence? About who, when, where, how to attack... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I complete, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0187par0324	Finish it, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0186par0325	Assuming you know anything about this, and I'm pointing out to the government that since there's been serious intel, has there been any operation based on this intel, or have the suspects been arrested? I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit03spe0187par0328	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0187par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume our discussion of the Justice and Development Party proposal. The last speaker against the proposal is Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0188par0006	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, when I see the AKP's proposal and the talks on behalf of the AKP here, I really think this Parliament has been very consciously dysfunctional, and so does our group. We have repeatedly stated that the real agenda of this Parliament must be the basic problems of the people and the country, and that unless Parliament and Parliament take initiative on these fundamental issues, we can't do anything about the results here except strong accusations, and we can't produce any politics. Look, this Parliament was on holiday in the last ten days when two of the largest attacks in the history of Turkey's political history were carried out in Ankara and Istanbul. There was only one Parliament group that worked, and on the day after those explosions, there was not even a political party that came together outside the HDP Group to reveal a group's will, a group's work on it; let alone the General Assembly's work, the emergency meeting of the General Assembly, the political party groups, did not even bother to hold a meeting on these developing agendas. But, right after the Ankara explosion, we gathered the HDP Parliament Group, the next day we held the group meeting in this Parliament, gave public, the peoples of Turkey the necessary messages, presented the necessary proposals, said that a solution commission must be created, that the four political parties should develop an initiative in this matter; rather than some declarations of envy, we said that there should be a real initiative to build a solution, but unfortunately, Parliament has continued to take a vacation. Today, we work until the morning, 24 hours. Without work, they try to create a perception as if the opposition is running away and the ruling party is insisting, and we want to say that that is not true, and that this approach can never be accepted. And in every terrorist attack in this country, especially in order to escape the responsibility of the ruling party in one way or another, blame him for the pressure he's made to escape responsibility. Don't criticize us, the troop messages, here. We don't want to say that we can't accept the pressure. You, for one, have no problem covering 78 million in the spirit of one. You're polarizing the social populations in this country so far until the attacks happen, you're bringing as many social groups as you can, you're following the politics of conflict, and then when you come up with a result, let's all be united, don't criticize us, condemn us, I don't know, condemn this... now, with that understanding, is it possible to govern a country, a country? No way, it's already unmanageable. So today, from Istiklal Street to Hilmi of the Danube, from the Kızılay Square to the Hilmi of Hilmi, people have become unable to go out on the street almost every day. I've just said that our friends in Diyarbakır Square have said that public order, public order... we will bring public order with security-axis operations. You insisted that the public order you brought in cannot go to the Kurds' house, the Turks or the people who live in the west can't leave the house. What kind of public order is that, fellas? We have repeatedly expressed that public order can be achieved with reforms, with freedoms, on the basis of equality, with democracy, with a number of corrections in this country's fundamental policies. Inside, in domestic politics right now -- do you think it's a struggle, do you think it's a war, or a war, or a war, but we're not going to hang out there -- we need to get out of this war landscape, re-establish the negotiating table, and we need to start that work once again, where it's about permanent peace. Oh, if the war continues, if there's any resistance in the war, I'm afraid, I mean none of us approve, none of us want any negative development in this matter, but instead of condolences, all of Turkey will continue to return to the house of mourning, more heavy bills will be in front of us. So, when the road is near, not through demagoji here, but through democracy, we all have to accept that it's time for us to make a policy. Look, there's been a lot of neglect during this process. We think the government is clearly negligent in all of this. Imagine that before the explosion on Istiklal Street, foreign intelligence services express that such developments could occur days ago; they shut down their embassies, their official institutions, but they seem to be on the brink of a similar disaster on Istanbul's busiest street. I mean, every loss is a pain, but if it had been in the intensity of Istiklal Street every day, it would have revealed a painting that none of us could ever explain. Now, would you say that this kind of government of a country is the right government? So the government has lost its initiative for politics, and everyone is looking at what the palace and its surroundings have to say. With all due respect, we have a public opinion that cares more about what the court counselors say than the government says. More than the government of this country, what do foreign intelligence services, foreign governments, say? A sense of security is spreading. So without seeing these paintings, there's no way out of here without having a bold discussion about them. In domestic policy, as I said, immediately, the solution process must be returned to the table, this conflict must be eliminated. Foreign policy also requires a radical revision of Syrian policy. Turkey must lead in peaceful diplomatic talks based on respect for the will of the peoples there, not being a part of the war in Syria. It's not a anti-Kurdish policy, it's not a policy that deals with gangs; it should certainly form a new foreign policy based on a hundred-year strategic alliance with Kurds, which we refer to as a marriage spirit, and put a distinct distance between gangs. Of course, since we're short on time, we won't have a chance to evaluate any of the other issues, but I'll say a few things about the festival of Neroz, especially to tell you where you're coming from. So for centuries, it's important that for thousands of years, a people or Middle Eastern peoples have banned a festival celebrated by the peoples of Anatolia, Mesopotamia, to show the point you've come to, to show which forbidden understanding of the AKP's claim for democratisation. In 83 places, the people wanted to celebrate the Nevroz, but because the AKP banned it, 75 places were banned and exposed to a great pressure, a great pressure, a great pressure, which was only allowed to be celebrated in 8 places. So it wasn't just the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) who were celebrating this (Nevroz); among those who came to the areas of Neroz (Nevroz) were AKP people in the past years, and there were CHP people in the region, and there were people who voted for other political parties that were active in the region. But you've developed a process where you've developed a full wave of terror, so to speak, for every person who throws a foot in the field, with water, gas, baton, detention, arrest. There's no way to accept that. Although all of this happened yesterday, hundreds of thousands of people cried out in Diyarbakır Square, and cried out for peace, and cried out for peace, and the war was over. Now, whether or not I get this message correctly, whether I read it correctly, is a matter entirely within the initiative of this House. Here, as I just said, we can talk about each other for hours at a time, we can demagogue each other, but the survival of this country is not going to be possible unless we put aside politics on demagogy and put an effort on democracy. Therefore, when the road is near, I say that Parliament should have some discussions with the real agendas here, and that all political parties should be involved in the process by taking initiative and creating a quick solution commission, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0189par0019	Thank you. Members of parliament, the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal has been redacted. I hereby submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/500) I demand that my original Law Proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu, who has an offer on the proposal, will speak. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0190par0036	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I curse the terrorist act that took place in Brussels today that cost many lives. I curse the terrorist act that has taken place in Istanbul recently, which has cost many lives again. Hopefully, we'll never face such acts of terror again. Dear friends...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0191par0039	Tell me your live broadcast on MED TV, on MED TV. When the bomb went off in Ankara...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0192par0040	Congressmans, let's not interfere. Mr. Godkulu, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0193par0042	Look, now, I'll tell that TV guy who came out of these chairs, and you'll be ashamed. Okay? You'll be ashamed if I tell you who's leaving.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0194par0043	Tell me, who's out?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0192par0044	You address the General Assembly. Please, lawmakers, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0046	Look, I'll tell you who's out, and you'll be embarrassed.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0192par0047	Please, Mr. Godkulu, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0048	I don't think it's appropriate for you to give me a name, but you've got friends sitting at the top of the line right now. Shame, shame, shame! [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Dear friends, look, this is exactly why we can't solve these problems. I've sent the cdbook of last week's speech to the Prime Minister today. They've targeted me, they continue to point at me, and I'm here to say this on this occasion: that if any harm comes to me and my relatives, because of these aims, if the PM and Erdogan in the palace are responsible for this exact statement.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0196par0051	I'll break his foot. Aren't you the one who said? Weren't you the one talking about violence?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0052	Look, my dear friends, your friends, who are still on top of that television, they need to get out because we need to talk to the people who are listening to it, and that's exactly why. I've sent my speech, Mr. Prime Minister, and I hope he listens, and I hope that the scientist will never, with his moral and honor, speak of such a target as that again. Dear friends, look, this isn't an environment to solve anything. Everyone's looking at the picture from somewhere, but we have to look at the big picture.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0197par0054	Look in the mirror!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0055	Turkey is at a crossroads. Look, in the last six months alone, 180 of our people have lost their lives in the explosions.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0198par0056	Thanks to you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0057	The number of civilians who died has been published today by the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey, 310; 72, 62, women, 29, over 60 years old.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0199par0058	So, who did this?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0059	167 people lost their lives within the borders of their home with fire or artillery bullets.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0200par0060	Who did this, who did this, who? Who's the client?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0061	Look, over a thousand people have died. There are more than 300 martyrs; there are soldiers, there are police, more than 300, more than 300. Of the 79 people, 59 were buried in Cizre, and of the 20 were buried in Sur. The autopsy was not performed, and their identities were unknown. It all happened in these six months. Look, this isn't the way, so let's stop fighting. Come, in Parliament... we proposed, dear friends, on December 14, 2015.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0200par0062	Was it your party?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0063	Let's start talking to each other here, not fighting. Before we open our mouths, without looking at what we're saying, you yell at me when you see my face.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0201par0064	Why?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0065	What if you can't even stand me? I am a member of this House, dear friends, a member of this House.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0202par0066	You're talking now because we're putting up with it, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0067	If something happens to me tomorrow, will you blame me?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0203par0068	What's the matter, guilt psychology?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0069	Dear friends, look, we've made a very valuable offer. Let go of your arrogance, we know everything. Let go of your attitude. I beg you, I beg you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0204par0070	You leave it, too.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0071	People couldn't go out in the middle of Ankara. The games are being cancelled in Istanbul.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0205par0072	Stop practicing PKK's law and stop being PKK's lawyer!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0206par0073	Let him who fears you be like you!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0074	People can't get out on the street.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0207par0075	You go and console him, go to the terrorist's funeral.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0076	Dear friends, let's give this up, make a path in this House. Let's move our common sense. For years, look, we've fought for this for years, but let's not make this Assembly of Deaths, let's make peace, let's make a House of Reconciliation. There's this road, there's this road, dear friends, there's this road, and let's do it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0208par0077	Peace does not make peace when you say peace, Mr. Godkulu!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0207par0078	PKK terrorist organization?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0079	There's this road, and let's do it, dear friends. Look, I know there are people in this group who have common sense, who address us in the lobby, who address us in the lobby, who have common sense. Let's keep our common sense, let's see the big picture, dear friends. I trust the lawmakers in this group. In a moment, you'll say no, but it's not the way you're going. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Together, let's look for ways to build a new mechanism here, together. Thank you, thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0209par0086	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0087	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, that attitude doesn't suit you, and I'm telling you again.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0210par0088	Sir...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0195par0089	That attitude doesn't suit you, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0211par0090	You're gonna break your feet!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0210par0091	I don't get it again. I don't get it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0212par0092	What's going on from top to top? For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0210par0093	What style? What have we done?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0213par0094	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0214par0095	Mr. President, we just got a call from our friends from the group, and we got a call from the citizens who were following the Capitol broadcasts. From the last five minutes of my speech, either a technical problem or a conscious attitude has arisen in Parliament TV. As Mr. Sezgin talks, the same problem continues in Parliament TV, so we need to clear this up. So you need to take a break and explain to the General Assembly whether the voice of the opposition has been consciously silenced or because of a technicality.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0213par0096	Okay, we'll ask him sometime.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0215par0097	Mr. President, I've just been informed that my speech...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0213par0098	You know, until 7:00 p.m., he normally broadcasts.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0216par0099	No, no, on the Internet.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0215par0100	No, on the Internet...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0213par0101	We'll ask him. We'll take a break soon, we'll take a break, we'll ask, we'll fill you in.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0216par0102	No, no, Mr. President, the public won't have heard the voice of the congressman who's about to speak.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0213par0103	Now, look...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0216par0104	We know it's over at 1900, so we've been working in this Parliament for years.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0213par0105	Yeah, yeah...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0216par0106	But people who follow the broadcast online are just trying to figure out what the congressman is saying through lip movements, lip movements.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0213par0107	I get it, Baluken, just a second... I get it. Now, at the request of Mr. Private, we've actually made this priority, and we've made it priority at the request of Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0216par0109	So there's no sound.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0213par0110	So today, after we've finished the agenda, we've decided to take a break.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0216par0111	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0213par0112	Now it's time for Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0217par0113	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0213par0114	Mr. Godkulu, now, in five minutes, we'll take a break, we'll brief you on this. Mr. Special, at your request, we've put this on the agenda, you know.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0218par0116	President, no sound, no sound.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0219par0117	Mr. President, let me put it this way. It's okay to put it on the agenda, of course you did.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0220par0119	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0219par0120	But, while I was talking, people who watched my speech on the Internet couldn't hear it, there was no sound. See if there's a special reason for this.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0221par0121	You need to take a break from this.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0220par0122	Look, they just told me it was a malfunction. We'll see about that, and we'll fill you in after the break.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0219par0123	I have to do my speech again.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0221par0124	Mr. President, this cannot be an interview until the malfunction has been fixed.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0220par0125	One moment, Mr. Bauken, I'm asking Mr. Special, now it's his turn. Mr. Special, at your request, we, you know, prioritized, or I would have taken a break from lunch.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0222par0127	No, if no one's listening, why are we talking?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0220par0128	Are you going to talk now?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0223par0129	Sir, if the malfunction continues, there's no point in talking.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit04spe0220par0130	I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0220par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our discussion of the proposal for direct agenda in accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code. On the motion...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0224par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0220par0005	One second... one second... ...Manisa MP will speak in private. Dear Godkulu, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0225par0008	Sir, I received information after I just spoke. The Council's Internet...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0220par0009	Now, let me make a statement about that, Your Holiness.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0225par0010	Let me know about him, yes.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0220par0011	For a short time, there was a malfunction from the sound desk. They fixed that malfunction, too. There's no problem at the moment. We'll pick up where we left off.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0225par0012	Then, broadcast...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0220par0013	No, sir. Even if the Capitol broadcast is broken, are we going to repeat it every time? That's not an option.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0225par0014	It's the Kurds without a party distinction.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0220par0015	Mr. Godkulu, you've been noted in history, it's been filed. The speech is made to the MPs, addressed to the MPs from the bench.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0225par0016	The people who were following us should have listened to us, and so should the citizens. And the fact that this happened to us...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0226par0017	You can share the transcripts on Twitter, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0220par0018	You'll share the records, and so will your God-fearing.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0225par0019	But you can promise me again, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0220par0020	Thank you. Mr. Special, please, it's your turn. I'll start your time in five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0227par0023	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It's unfortunate what just happened to Mr. Godkulu and Mr. Bauken. There is no place for this in the Civil Code, but we all think that a solution should be produced. Therefore, from here, I say very clearly: I have listened to your speech, but I have no understanding of what Mr. Sezgin Tanzkulu had said, nor of what Idris Bauken had said. If they have anything to say, if they have the guts to do it, let them come out of the stand and answer it, Mr. President. That way, both injustice will be solved and they'll clear up the conversation that we don't understand so much. Mr. President, of course, we're talking about this on the one hand, Mr. Godkulu, and what happened here today when he took the stand is very significant in terms of the lynching culture of the ruling party. If Mr. Godkulu were to stand on the stand and recite poetry, you would have done organizational propaganda. If Mr. Godkulu sang on TV, the trolls are taking action because he supported the separatist organization. If an aunt dropped her cane, gave me her cane, you aided and abetted the separatist organization. They say that, and someone tells it first, and then everyone believes it. A friend of ours who was just talking behind his back says: "Go talk on the TV of the separatist organization on live television." Once again, it also shows how bad the Prime Minister has done to this country and its own group. First of all, it's not broadcast, it's live, it's tape. We sent the CD to the Prime Minister today. Six times, the terrorist organization is publicly condemned, and the terrorist organization's actions are a serious crime against humanity, and the Prime Minister will first convince his group, almost all of Turkey. This would not suit a Prime Minister, a statesman. We hope that the Prime Minister will sit down after that CD, give his own self-criticism, and ask for the apology both from our group and from our valued MP. Today's events, especially to our five martyrs in Nusaybin, then to those who have lost their lives in Brussels -- every minute -- are growing -- are crying along with Belgium. I wish the whole world could condemn them, regardless of where they are in the world, the source of terror, the origin of this attack, the origin of this attack, without looking at who organized it, but without looking at who orchestrated it, the whole world and everyone in Turkey, not according to their position, but by universal norms, according to conscience, can be associated with acts of terror, according to the law and the Constitution. Now, here we are, friends, on a intimacy test. We're about to vote on a bill that's been on the committee for 45 days. It's made up of 68 substances, 68 substances. I can't count one by one, but most of them aren't in the hall right now, but when the doors are open to grow the number of decisions, I'm going to say a few things to the people who are going to run inside, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, when they're sitting here, regardless of what they're up against, categorically opposed to our suggestions: Highly valued MPs of the ruling party, you will say no to the proposal that the election dam be lowered by the vote you are about to use. What happened in the year 1937-38, this Parliament will set up a commission and investigate it. We'll recommend it. You'll say, "No." You're about to vote no for Diyarbakır Prison to become a museum of human rights and democracy. Let's clean up the land and distribute it to the poor villagers. You'll say no to his proposal in a moment. No, long imprisonment is good. You will vote. You will not be able to say no, but you will continue to open the way for it with your vote of no. You will say no to our proposal to reopen the way to retrial the decisions of the special authorities. You're going to say no. You're going to tell the state of the Republic of Turkey for torture and inhumane crimes that the European Court of Human Rights has imposed on them. You're going to say no. You're going to say, "Go ahead with the secret witness application." Do not apply the statute of limitations for the unknown, hate crimes and the DGMs of the coup era. You will say no to our proposal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He's sad to expect another attitude, but for that, we find that more democracy, more in-party democracy, and the real representatives of the people who are acting on their conscience are needed. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0228par0044	I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0229par0045	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0230par0046	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0228par0047	All in favor...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0230par0048	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0231par0049	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0232par0050	We've asked for a sufficient number of decisions, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0051	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0234par0052	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0235par0053	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0054	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0236par0055	We asked for a sufficient number of decisions before the vote.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0237par0056	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0057	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0237par0058	As soon as your head is up front on the stand, you're voting on the motion without looking at the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0238par0059	Normal...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0060	Sure, I'll vote on the motion when the conversation's over.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0239par0061	We're calling it a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0240par0062	No, it's voting, which means there's no shelf diamonds here, Mr. President; there's Parliamentary MPs here, there's groups.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0063	No, after we've processed...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0240par0064	Your head forward, I submit the proposal to your votes. Is it possible? Of course not.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0065	Mr. President, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0240par0066	And the other group vice president has a demand for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0067	I'd like to submit the motion to your votes after the conversation is over, naturally, and while we're at it...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0240par0068	But you can put your head up and say it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0069	No, those who don't accept... when we say... we look up and look up.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0241par0070	We've been asked a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0071	Mr. Baluken, you may have asked for a sufficient number of decisions, I may not have noticed, but once you've started a process, if you'd like, you'll only want it next time you're done.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0241par0072	But you have to be careful before the vote.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0073	After I started the process, I said those who agreed......
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0242par0074	Mr. President, it's very clear. Get the footage if you want. It's been a fashion to send papers to a criminal investigation. Your head is on the ground, and I'm offering the proposal to your votes: it's not said. I haven't seen anything like this in 14 years.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0075	Why? It's what we do.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0242par0076	No, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0077	Why?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0242par0078	It's, I mean...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0079	No, those who don't agree... by those who don't... by those who don't, of course, we decide by the majority.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0242par0080	There's enough to go around. The congressman has a request, so it could be after the vote. We had a roll call.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0081	Have you expressed your request for roll call, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0243par0082	He forgot.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0242par0083	You didn't give me a chance. We're standing, as you can see.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0084	Wait a second... You just said: Mr. Bauken, there is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0242par0086	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0087	We just passed that...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0242par0088	He said it first.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0233par0089	We have a request for roll call. You said.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0242par0090	That, too, and you didn't look at it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0244par0091	They're late, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0245par0092	Sir, they're late, let them look at the reports.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0246par0093	You've never asked for a roll call.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0247par0094	I'm looking at rights, law. First, Baluken asked for a sufficient number of decisions, so we stood up. But first, he asked for enough to decide.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0248par0095	We've asked for a sufficient number of decisions, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0249par0096	It's okay, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0250par0097	They're supposed to stand up at the same time under the Civil Code, not at the same time.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0251par0098	Wait a second...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0250par0099	Mr. President, they didn't get up at the same time.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0252par0100	Osman, who got up at the same time, when did he get up?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0250par0101	No! You didn't get up at the same time, sir. That's what the Civil Code says. 20 people get up at the same time, he says. How many people are up?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0253par0102	Now, here's the list of names given by Mr. Altay. Well, in that case, we'll just have to look for the number of meetings. It's a list of names he's already given.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0254par0103	Mr. President, it's been processed, why are you calling?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0250par0104	Mr. President, Mr. Idris asked for the number of decisions first, sir, and you have to do it first.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0253par0105	Mr. Altay? Here. Mr. Special? Here. Mr. Kara? Here. Mr. Godkulu? Here. Mr. Tarhan? Here. Mr. Guler? Here. Mr. All? Here. Mr. Tekin? Here. Mr. Durmaz? Here. Mr. Bektasoglu? Here. Mr. Charter? Here. Mr. Kayishoglu? Here. Mr. Division? Here. Mr. Copper? Here. Mr. Engin? Here. Mr. Man? Here. Mr. Emir? Here. Mr. lion? Here. Mr. Bridgel? Here. Mr. Irgil? Here. Well, now, before the vote, there's been a request for a meeting of enough numbers.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0255par0126	Mr. President, are you doing a roll call, looking for enough to make a decision?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0253par0127	I'm filling in the request for a sufficient number of meetings, a sufficient number of meetings before the vote, a request for roll call.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0255par0128	Mr. President, the Civil Code is open, and you can't proceed after the procedure has begun. So we can look at the records.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0256par0129	I told them there was an internal conflict in the AKP, so they got caught up in it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0255par0130	Guys, let go! Let's look at the records, and if that's what he says, let's do it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0257par0132	Yeah, let's look at the records, and there's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0255par0133	And our Civil Code...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0258par0134	Mr. Turan, here's the list of names, and they've already given us a list of names, so I'm sure they missed it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0255par0135	The process had begun, the new procedure... III. Exposure
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0258par0137	So I'll call the number of meetings. I'll give you five minutes to count the meeting. Mr. Lawmakers who give compasses must not leave the hall. [[Checked with electronic device]] Yes, I'm reading the MPs who gave the compass: Mr. Ayşe Kezir? Here. Mr. Yilmaz Tezcan? No. Mr. Serkan Bayram? Here. Mr. Star Seferinoglu? Here. Mr. Nevzat Ceylan? Here. Mr. Ahmet Inquisitor? Here. There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0259par0154	Mr. President, the AKP Group has agreed.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0260par0155	No, it wasn't accepted.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0258par0156	No, we just voted, dear, for God's sake!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0261par0157	They did.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0262par0158	Mr. President, a lot of deputy friends have agreed. No, that middle-class guy who's very accepting...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0263par0159	No, ten people raised their hands.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0264par0160	In accordance with the decision taken...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0262par0161	No, it's a vital decision.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0264par0162	Guys, please, what's going on? For God's sake, I see those who take it, those who don't.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0265par0163	We see it, too.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0262par0164	Tell me how many of the AKP's people have accepted it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0264par0165	According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move on to the Commission's Partials of Business, with the legislation and Proposals of the agenda.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0262par0166	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0264par0167	We will resume our discussion of the First ranking Personal Data Protection Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. February 24, 2016...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0266par0174	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0264par0175	I'll give it to you, I'll give it to you, just a second, let's get it started. The 43rd Amendment, dated February 24, 2016, was adopted in the first chapter of the bill, which was considered the main law according to Article 91. We will now begin the motion proceedings on the 7th article. Before that, Mr. Baluken, you have a request.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0267par0178	Mr. President, speaking on behalf of the Republican People's Party, the members of the group have just taken our name off the bench and expressed themselves on the stand if they have the courage. About that, of course, he blames us at the same time as lack of courage. I've got a demand for sarcasm.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0264par0179	Mr. Baluken, this is a bit of a challenge.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0267par0180	No, no.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0264par0181	Actually, it wasn't a taunting speech, it was a support message.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0267par0182	Now, since there's been an argument about this roll call, he's been forced to hang out by now, but I think it's an open challenge.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0264par0183	All right, here you go. I'll give you two minutes. Let's not afford another tease, please.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0268par0184	Why does he order it, Mr. President, on what grounds?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0267par0185	He says, "You have no courage." Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, as for this matter of courage, there wasn't much time left in my speech just now about immunity, and I didn't mention it, but there are two important principles that we've been defending as the Democratic Party of Peoples all along, and I want to explain that. First of all, we advocate the removal of immunity from all 550 MPs. Bring here a constitutional provision that will pave the way for a trial for crimes other than treason, including the president, and we will have brought valuable work into Turkey's political history, except for its immunity to the bench. And the second is that the current arguments are... so they're said to be 506 proceedings, and we can't get the contents of those arguments, and the Commissioner won't give them to us, but we're clearly arguing that they're being brought down to the Karma Commission through those mechanisms stated in the Interior Charter. As long as objective criteria are run by national and universal law norms in the Karma Commission, we also feel that the public and the public have the right to receive information. I mean, whatever's going on in there, let the public know, let the public know. Who's being tried for motive, who's being accused of what: theft, corruption, bribery, corruption into tenders, what's in the files of any member of parliament about any moral problem, let the public know. All of our claims are about the immunity of the bench, the thought, the expression, the freedom of organization. And let me tell the AKP Group in particular that it is clear that your immunity will not only be discussed in this Parliament, but also in the international public after the arrest of Reza Zarrab. So I say don't threaten us with immunity. I also invite CHP to be bolder and explain its clear attitude from this stage. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0269par0195	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0270par0196	Don't get played, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0271par0197	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0269par0198	He accused Turkey's main opposition party of lack of attitude, Mr. Deputy Group President, of a very obvious bullying, Mr. President. Don't mind me smiling, I'm extremely angry and angry.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0272par0199	That was abuse of rights, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0273par0200	Mr. President, let's move on to the agenda.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0269par0201	How do we get through?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0272par0202	Fine, you'll pick on me till morning.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0269par0203	So I'll tell you, you're colorless. You don't take it for a tease. If you don't, I'll pull back.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0274par0204	It's clear between you two. We just saw it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0275par0205	Mr. Altay, I mean, it's not like I'm saying, it's not like it's a challenge, but... look, it's the first day, after the break, it's a good reunion. Let us, all together, hope, keep this assembly in peace, and carry it out according to the Civil Code. So, I'm still gonna give you two minutes, no hard feelings. Please, on the condition that we don't challenge a new tease...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0274par0207	Mr. President, if it's wrong, why are you giving it to me?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0275par0208	Who's speaking for the group?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0276par0209	Mr. President, we don't demand greatness and loyalty. Thank you, I get it, but I mean, there's no order here, there's no joy.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0277par0210	You guys are having a good fight. Please don't keep people busy.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0276par0211	Mr. Group Vice President's openly accusing a country's main opposition party of not being clear about something everyone is arguing about in Turkey, not being brave, is not picking on anything in this Parliament.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0278par0212	Now, Mr. Altay, we've just heard from Mr. Free, not very seriously taunting, but you appreciate that he's made a pass, and so do I.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0279par0214	Bravo!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0278par0215	And Mr. Baluken has taken his word from this rust, and I will give you my word as well. Let's end this this way. Two minutes, and I promise you, okay.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0280par0216	Mr. President, thank you, but now, you've made a far worse challenge by accusing us of rusting.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0278par0217	Pick on me, too.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0280par0218	Yeah, you guys picked on us.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0281par0219	Don't make a pass. He says, he advises you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0278par0220	Now, Mr. Altay, I'll give it to you in a second. However, as a man who knows the Civil Code, you also know that the appreciation for bullying here belongs to the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, who conducts the session here.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0280par0221	Of course, of course.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0278par0222	So we're trying to use this appreciation in a way that all of you would see fit, but at the point that this is not being abused, I'd like to ask you all to give a great deal of attention, thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0280par0223	Thanks.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0278par0224	Dear Godkulu, come in. I'll give you two minutes, but please, let's not afford another pick-me-up.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0282par0226	Stop teasing me, don't insult me.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0283par0228	Mr. President, I believe our group vice president will respond to your bullying. Let me put it this way, my dear friends: In my speech, I wanted to make another promise that I had learned to cut the broadcast from the Internet later, and you did not. Actually, if you'd given me two minutes, we'd have told you here. I think it makes sense that a speech that I announced in the daytime, that I announced yesterday, that our president had been interrupted in his group speech, that it was explained as a malfunction, that it was timed, that it was timed. So this speech malfunction coincided with the speech of two Kurds who were present at two separate parties of this Parliament? It really makes sense to me, so I'll tell you that. Dear friends, look, we have to talk from here without getting mad or yelling. We really worked hard, not in Turkey's claim to be able to move forward on the violence, terrorism, Kurdish issue, to guide, to solve it, but we did a work that would guide us, almost all of our MPs had signed, and we asked for a promise based on 37. But really, look, we really can't stand by without knowing all this. Somewhere in Turkey, there is an environment of violence spreading all over Turkey, an environment of terror; our people are losing their lives. I said the number of people who died from bombs in six months is 180. I said here, the number of civilians who died is 310...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0284par0231	How many martyrs, how many martyrs?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0283par0232	...more than 300 martyrs, dear friends. Mr. Davutoglu's era is the bloodiest period in the history of the Republic, the bloodiest time in life in terms of the number of dead, and all of this took place in these seven months, eight months. We need to take a stand together to make sure there's no more, that's our goal, not to fight, not to make it polemic. How can we get together? Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, we'll have to come, but every day, it opens the distance. We're having trouble reaching our people. People's beliefs to Ankara, to this Parliament are being filed more and more daily, and we have no right to do so. That's what we tried to say, but unfortunately, we couldn't say because of the bullying here. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0285par0235	Yeah, well, hopefully we'll get to the bottom of it. Members of parliament, there is a motion under Article 70 of the Civil Code to discuss the motions on Article 7 in closed session. I'm reading the motion for closed session: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that the talks on Article 7 of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data Act, which is currently in place, be held in closed session. The content of the proposals is needed. The audience and the officials who are not members of the General Assembly, who can be present at the closed session, must go outside.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0286par0249	The lobby, Mr. President, and the lobby needs to be cleared.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0285par0250	I'd like to ask your supervisors to ensure that the hall is cleared. I submit to your votes that sworn stenographers and other sworn officers remain in the hall: Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0287par0252	It hasn't been done, Mr. President. Look, it hasn't been done, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0288par0253	It wasn't, sir. Look, they're still picking it up, they haven't. Isn't that a goal, Mr. President? Is that a goal, too?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0285par0254	Yes, it's not accepted. The hall needs to be evacuated.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0288par0255	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0289par0256	Mr. President, it looks like it's going to take a lot of time to clear the lobby, and there's a lot of room in the lobby.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0288par0257	Let's take a 15-minute break, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0290par0258	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0291par0259	You'll have to take a half-hour recess to have a closed session, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0290par0260	Congressmans, if you'd like, a re-voting at the point where the stenographers, especially the sworn officers in the back, are staying in the living room... it's probably not very clear.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0291par0261	No, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0292par0262	No, sir, is that possible? It's done, it's done.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0293par0263	No!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0294par0264	All right, all right, vote, pass, deal.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0295par0265	Let's take a half hour break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit05spe0294par0266	I'm gonna take a ten-minute recess since it's gonna take time to clear the hall, and I'm gonna take in the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit06spe0294par0001	I now open the Seventh Session after the closed session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 117 from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 7th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 8 of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data Act, which is in place in 117 rows (b) to the head of the 8th joke (2) (e.g.) to the head of the bell. Article 4. In accordance with his joke, we offer and offer to add to the declaration. Baki Simsek Nuri Okutan İsmail Faruk Aksu Erkan Haberal İsmail Ok Kamil Aydın Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 (a) of Article 8 (a) of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data Charter No. 117 and the amendment of Article 5 (b) of the same joke (b) be removed from the bill. Namik Havutça Ömer Süha Aldan Özkan Yım Cemal Okan Yüksek Zeynel Emre Haydar Akar Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data, which is currently in session, be changed in the following way. İdris Bauken Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Merkel Danış Beştaş Osman Baydemir Erol Dora Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı (1) Personal data cannot be transferred to third persons without the open consent of the interested person. (2) As long as personal data does not harm the basic rights and freedoms of those concerned, the Law 5. Article 2 of the Article 2. Its joke can be transmitted without the open consent of the person involved in the condition specified in B. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit06spe0296par0037	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit06spe0294par0038	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit06spe0297par0039	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit06spe0294par0040	Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş is demanding a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit06spe0298par0043	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 8th Amendment. The borderhead of Article 8 is to transfer personal data to third parties. This article cannot be passed on to third persons without the open consent of the person concerned. After the principle of the subject, it actually regulates the exceptions, an arrangement for how to transfer them. Here (a) is the second joke in the second part of the article, (b) in order to take sufficient measures in my hand, in the case of one of the fourth clause (b) in its fourth joke, except for me, it can be passed on to the third person without the open consent of the subject. Now, when we look at the 5th article (2), there are some regulations here. Of course, (2) The third joke (e) begins with subtitles (e) organized until (e) and it begins with the explicit appraise of the law here, and it continues in the last joke that if the person is unable to express his consent because of the impossible, or if his own consent is not legally valid, or that it is mandatory for the protection of another person's life or body integrity, (c) that it should be directly related to the establishment of a contract, or that it should be directly relevant to the establishment of a right, or that data should be processed for protection. Now, here, according to these dams I've read, this data can be transferred to third parties, even if it's not a person's consent. I mean, in our laws and in our Constitution, it's usually the principle that prohibits a violation of a right or a right, but there are exceptions to that right that are completely open to interpretation that the essence of that right is lost, removed. So here we are, unfortunately, in a typical way, facing an arrangement that, as a matter of fact, I can't say about the law -- I mean, it's not really about cheating against the law, but that the principle is to eliminate all exceptions. Therefore, the law requires the open consent of individuals. Although the principle is intended to preserve personal data, the essence of rights is certainly being removed and is being seriously restored because of the vastness of the area and framework of which the consent will not be taken under. As I said in my speech on the last article, we have once again expressed our view that we need a compromise on the details of this law, on the Protection of Personal Data, and on a common position, and on a common attitude, as a result of consultations, because we have a great responsibility to all Turkey, to the citizens of Turkey. I'm saying we shouldn't let this responsibility, this expectation go to waste. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit06spe0299par0052	We'll ask for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit06spe0300par0053	I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit06spe0301par0054	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit06spe0300par0055	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit06spe0302par0057	Mr. President, there's no obvious.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit06spe0303par0058	President, don't, don't.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit06spe0300par0059	There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0300par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 117 from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. On Article 8 of Article 8 there was no sufficient number of decisions during the vote of Adana MP Coral Danış Beştaş and his friends. I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Article 8 (a) be replaced by Article 2 (b) of Article 5 (b) and that the same joke (b) be removed from the bill. Murat Amir (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0304par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0300par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0305par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0300par0015	Ankara MP Murat Amir has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0306par0018	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. It is said that this law was brought under the directives of the European Union and in order to ensure the legal processing, use of personal data and protection of personality rights, but we've been warned over and over again that this law never serves. This law, in fact, is a law set up to process personal data freely, use and sell when necessary. With the exceptions placed in it, almost every substance, especially the non-responsible clause at the top of the 5th and 6th article, has been disabled. However, we are making this law because of integration into the European Union. You say, although as clearly shown in paragraph 123 of the European Commission's charter proposal, the processing, the use, and transfer of personal data without a person's consent is not an issue. I present this to the attention of the commission. You're making a big mistake. Again, see, in Article 18 -- this is something that covers Article 8 -- it is strictly forbidden for personal data to be transmitted or shared without the consent of the individual. Therefore, this bill in front of us clearly violates the norms of the European Union. We ask that the Commission and the Minister -- of course, if they're careful -- take care of it. This is extremely important, my friends. I'd like to tell you in one example why it's important to be a little more dramatic. See, right now in Turkey, according to our legislation, there are cordon blood banking centers, centers for human tissue and cells, bone marrow transplant centers. The data collected here, the genetic data collected here, the blood samples collected here, the cells collected here are all health data. In this case, it is specific data based on Article 6 and the way for this data to be processed without the consent of the individual has been opened. Well, what could it be? For example, the cord blood you gave for your grandson, or the cells you gave me during any lab examination, are then open to use. Is it dangerous? Yes, it's extremely dangerous; it's dangerous for your health, and it's dangerous for your data to be misused. Of course, the General Assembly isn't paying attention, but, my friends, there will be consequences for national security. Look, they sold the Icelandic people's DNA data to cover the gap of the Icelandic government. So what I'm trying to say is that you take special health data, DNA data, genetic data, and you market it to biotechnology companies in the world or the national or international plan. In fact, the sharing of the data we're talking about here, let's call it, let's call it, is that it's being sold. So it's useful to go through a sample like this -- for example, if your DNA is processed, it has the potential to have consequences for organ trafficking, organ trafficking, or to affect our national security, or to produce drugs that turn to us. Look, after such sharing and selling of these materials, I like to compare your indifference to this: during the Abdulhamite period, when the Zeus altar in Bergama is being taken to Germany, they ask for permission and say: "What's wrong with God's stone? What's wrong with it?" In the business, friends, especially with special personal data, is that it's being processed, sent, shared, and it's a very serious result for all of us. Why do you need to process human race, religion, sexual data? Look, is there a cult here, in the norms of the European Union? Are there religious, religious, philosophical views? Mr. Secretary, what are you going to do with these? Where are you going to use them? We called it selling personal data, you didn't like it, we called it tag law, you didn't like it, so I suggest a name, you might call it the law of using sexual data. I salute the General Assembly and ask that this great error be returned at once. My respects.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0307par0026	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 8 of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data Act, which is in place in 117 rows (b) to the head of the 8th joke (2) (e.g.) to the head of the bell. Article 4. In accordance with his joke, we offer and offer to add to the declaration. Saffet Sandzak and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0308par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0307par0033	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0309par0034	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0307par0035	Absorption on the motion, MP Saffet Sandzakli. Here you go, Mr. Sandzak.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0310par0038	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, it's all very important, but I'd like to talk a little bit about terrorism. If we don't solve this terror, if we don't get rid of this terror, they'll all be left behind, in second place. Last week in Istanbul, a bomb went off in Tiram, the day before that bomb went off, the German consulate issued a warning that the bomb was going to explode. There's a German school there, he's closing the school, he's taking a vacation. My son's school is coming up soon, so I didn't send him to school between Friday and Monday and the bomb goes off. How did I come up with that? I also came from the German consulate's statement, and you're checking all the accounts on this social media, and if you look at the social media accounts of these terrorist groups, they're already telling us where they're going to blow up. We've become so close that we're starting to get the hang of it. Last time, we were all in Parliament when the bomb went off in Ankara; we didn't shut down the House by doing the right thing, we didn't create the environment of terror, but we're looking at the coming point these days, and I will never agree to postpone this Fenerbahçe-Galatasaray match after this bomb went off, my friends. It's 20 o'clock that day. At 00, at 12 p.m. The bomb experts called the stadium five times with the dogs -- we have friends working at the stadium there -- and nothing was found. Three hours before the game, the audience was taken in, literally, and the audience was taken in. Later, the Governor says he's been notified and there's been a threat, a threat, and he clears the stadium again, two hours away. The Galatasaray Club says, "Why should I play without an audience when I can play with 50,000 people?" After him, the Football Federation and the Governor's meeting together, there's a huge threat, and we're postponing the match. At that moment, Mr. President was talking live on TV. Guys, we have to stand up to terror, we have to stand up straight, we can't create the environment that terror wants. At that moment, Mr. President is talking live on TV.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0311par0041	Not at that moment, an hour and a half later, an hour and a half later.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0312par0042	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0310par0043	If you love your God, I'm talking to you! How you like to talk! That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about something important, terrorism.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0312par0044	You speak, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0313par0045	Why are you telling me about the president here?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0314par0046	The President spoke later.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0315par0047	Congressmans, let's not interfere. Mr. Sandzak, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0316par0049	Did I tell you what the president said?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0317par0050	You were talking about his speech...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0316par0051	How do you know? Are you psychics?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0318par0052	He talks at that moment. You say, "It's that moment."
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0319par0053	They're shameless! When you say "President," you start talking! Listen!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0316par0054	How disrespectful of you!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0320par0055	They're sleeping with him and waking up with him.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0316par0056	The president says something very nice, he says: "We will not be condemned to the agenda of the terrorist. " He says something right, you don't listen.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0321par0057	But he doesn't say it then, he says it later.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0316par0058	Yeah, he doesn't say then, he says an hour later. We won't be condemned to the terrorist agenda, we won't do what terrorism wants. Half an hour later, half an hour ago, it's not important -- the big Fenerbahçe-Galatasaray game is being cancelled, my friends. Did terror get what it wanted or not? Isn't terror at the stadium the biggest response? Why do you allow these stadiums to be closed? There's been a very big report, and there's going to be big incidents. The public doesn't know anything. There's an incident, it's the same thing, friends, we started to believe that after an hour or two, an explanation, a reprimand! Then, something new came up; why do you immediately shut down Twitter, Facebook, and these social media accounts? Why is this telecommunications communications president shutting down? Let the people speak what they want. Bring in the gag order if there's any inappropriate footage.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0322par0059	No way! It's closed all over the world!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0323par0060	You do terrorist propaganda, you do all kinds of things, you can't do anything.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0324par0061	Mr. Saffet, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0325par0062	How am I supposed to go on? I'm telling you something, and what I'm telling you is that I'm telling you about Turkey.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0326par0063	Congressmans, please, let's not interfere. Mr. Sandzak, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0325par0065	You guys seem to be in a good mood, you must be in a good mood!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0327par0066	Mr. Saffet, we're listening...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0328par0067	Oh, don't take these forts, Mr. Sandzak. You're rude! At that moment, his mind is sabotaging, and he's smiling, shameless! Don't you have any value left but your President?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0329par0070	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are four motions on Article 9 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 9 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data, which is ranked 117, shall be replaced by "appreciating" the phrase "if it is needed and evaluated" in the sentence following the (d) sentence. Baki Simsek Nuri Okutan İsmail Faruk Aksu Desire Erdem Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 9 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data #117, which is currently in session, in the following way. (2) Personal data is available in a foreign country where one of the conditions specified in Article 6 and Article 6 shall be transferred to personal data; A) Having sufficient protection, B) In the absence of adequate protection, the data managers in Turkey and in the foreign country have a written commitment to a sufficient protection, and the Council has a permit, The person involved can be transferred abroad with open consent. Namik Havutça Ömer Süha Aldan Özkan Yım Cemal Okan Ascen Zeynel Emre Gülay Backuper Haydar Akar Ömer Fethi Gürer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following joke be added after the fourth joke to the 9th article of the Common Law Bill of 117 rows, and that the other joke be identified accordingly. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Tülay Kaynarca Ali Cumhur Taşkın Salih Çetinkaya Zeyid Aslan "The personal data can only be transferred abroad by permission of the relevant public institution or organisation, if the interests of the country or the person involved are seriously damaged, to remain hidden from international contract provisions." Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 9 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data, which is currently in session, 117 rows. İdris Bauken Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Merkel Danış Beştaş Osman Baydemir Erol Dora Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı (1) Personal data cannot be transferred abroad without the consent of the interested person. (2) In a foreign country where his personal location will be transferred B) In the absence of adequate protection, the provision of the data managers in Turkey and abroad to commit sufficient protection and to have the Council's permission is required. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0330par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0329par0120	İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan has asked for a statement on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0331par0123	Mr. President, we have expressed our views on the law, both in the commission and in the General Assembly, but again, we continue to talk about Article 9 and we will express our views. It was originally stated earlier that the law was contrary to the open provisions of the Constitution. Law 5982, adopted as a result of a public vote on September 12, 2010, was secured as a basic human right to protect personal data by adding a joke to Article 20 of the Constitution and Article 5982. The third joke of the Constitution's Article 20 is that everyone has the right to ask for protection of personal data related to him. This right also includes information about personal data related to the individual, accessing these data, demanding that they be corrected or deleted, and learning whether they are used for their purposes. Personal data can only be processed in the cases envisioned by the law or by open consent of the person. Dear lawmakers, the bill provides absolute authority against individuals who have an obligation to keep secrets, as well as the security institutions, with the infinite exceptions to its provisions to secure personal data, thus providing them with immunity from all the responsibilities that appear to be in violation of the law and the sanctions of the Constitution, so that personal data can be guaranteed to be used against individuals without their consent and knowledge, thus inverting the purpose to the opposite conclusion of the purpose, and thus violates the 20th Article of the Constitution. On the other hand, the bill reflects a fundamental contrast with the spirit of the contract on the protection of individuals in terms of the European Union's legislation and of the automatically conducted personal data, which is the basic document that it is based on. The agreement aims to secure the basic rights and freedoms of all real people, regardless of their nationality and residence in the state country, especially when it is subject to a special concession to institutions in terms of the processing of personal information that concerns them in public institutions or in private sectors, regardless of the nature of the state's nationality and residence. This is how it is organised, good lawmakers, to be able to transfer all personal data that has been processed and recorded. As if personal data can and can be processed and transmitted while editing matter has been brought to our attention by being superior to all basic rights and freedoms. In the context of the foreign country, the rights of the data holder depend on the interests of governments, the fate of interstate negotiations. We also see here that there is sufficient protection in the relevant foreign country in order to share the data, and if there is not enough protection in the country where personal data will be transferred, it is added to the material to ensure that authorities are able to conduct their personal data with complete freedom, according to the result of interstate relations and negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we've been told here before by our fellow lawmakers. Really, our country is under very heavy conditions. In our country faced with a spiral of violence, mothers have never cried so much, never shed so much tears. Look, in 90 years of republic history, we've never been able to talk to Parliament about the fundamental issues of this country, which are equipped with official ideology, with official ideology, with official understanding, including CHP. Come, let us establish the conditions for a brotherly, peaceful life in this country, in our common land. If you take the Alevis against you, take the Kurds against you, take the Democrats against you, won't you contradict the political document you presented from 2002? Let's break down the idea of an oligarchy state against this official ideology, get a democratic order where peoples and beliefs will live together. The terms of this are in Parliament. A country without deaths. You see, a bomb goes off every day in our country. No matter who does these things, I strongly condemn them. There's nothing human about it. And it's not enough to condemn that here, precious MPs. Let's create a legal infrastructure for these. Whatever's wrong with the law, let's figure it out. Let's build a brotherhood, a climate of peace together; that's the point. How are we different from each other? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If we can't stand each other talking here, we've got a problem. He says we have to get over this problem, so I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0332par0132	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0333par0133	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0332par0134	Mr. President, in his speech, the speaker has made a statement that Turkey's terror spiral is a reflection of an official ideology, and that it will give rise to the perception of the terrorist events of the official ideology as part of its party. I'd like to give you an answer, if that's all right.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0333par0135	I promise not to pick on you for two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0332par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. This issue of official ideology comes up from time to time in Turkey. What it is, what it isn't, I don't know much about this official ideology. The Republic of Turkey has founding philosophy. If the founding philosophy of the Republic of Turkey could be alive and standing today, literally, these bombs would not go off, a thousand years of Turkish and Kurdish brotherhood would continue, no one would shout freedom, no one would take anyone's basic and rights. Right now, we wouldn't be faced with a weak government, a corrupt state, a nation in panic in a region of Turkey's 783.562 square kilometers of geography, which we prided on every occasion. If that founding will, founding philosophy, peace in the land, peace in the world. If the discurus had been implemented by all parties, and especially by this government, today in our Parliament, we would be dealing with more serious things to improve our nation's economic, social, cultural life. Congressmans, of course, Parliament, we'll do politics, we'll do polemics. I don't know about you, we're burning up. Today again, there are three martyrs in Highova. People die every day in Turkey, one way or another. And I'm always saying, if we're looking to blame these deaths for these deaths, this first government, this Parliament, who is responsible for the actions of this second government, is the one who is left behind. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0334par0148	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following joke be added after the fourth joke to the 9th article of the Common Law Bill of 117 rows, and that the other joke be identified accordingly. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends Personal data can only be transferred abroad by permission of the relevant public institution or organisation, if the interests of the country or of the person involved are seriously damaged, to remain hidden from international contract provisions. I think there's a demand for a reduction in the motion.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0335par0155	Sir, I have a request for a correction.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0334par0156	This way, please.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0335par0157	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, sir, we'd like to change a word of the motion we've made with our friends. We said that the country... was to remain anonymous for personal data, international contract provisions. In case Turkey's or the interests of a concerned person are seriously harmed, the opinion of the relevant public institution or institution can be transferred abroad by permission of the Council. I read the request for correction.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0334par0159	Resolved by Turkey instead of the country... Is the commission in?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0336par0161	We commend you with the proper opinion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0334par0162	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0337par0163	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0334par0164	I'm reading the reason: Transferring personal data abroad can in some cases seriously damage the interests of our country or those involved. In order to prevent this situation, data are intended to be exported abroad after the Council has allowed the opinion of the State Department or its relevant public institutions or organisations in cases where the interests of the country or of the person involved will be severely damaged. However, international contract provisions are kept. In the event of international contract provisions, people's interests will not be seriously harmed. I submit the motion to your votes in the process of editing those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 9 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data #117, which is currently in session, in the following way. (2) Personal data is available in a foreign country where one of the conditions specified in Article 5 and Article 6 and Article 6 will be transferred to personal data; A) Having sufficient protection, B) In the absence of adequate protection, the data managers in Turkey and in the foreign country have a written commitment to a sufficient protection, and the Council has a permit, The person involved can be transferred abroad with open consent. Namik Havut (Fishesir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0338par0177	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0334par0178	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0339par0179	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0334par0180	Niğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer is demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Gürer. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0340par0184	Mr. President, I've been promised the 9th Amendment of the Protection of Personal Data Act. I salute the High Council. The irresponsibility of personal data in the conditions of the world, and the fact that it poses a threat to a person's basic rights and freedom, reveals the necessity of a law that aims to protect the individual. However, this law will prevent the opposition from returning to the same issues over and over again by receiving opinions and evaluations. Because, unfortunately, in recent years, the laws in our country have again, because of the problems in practice, again, come to the front of the Assembly, and there are problems in both the efficiency of the Assembly's work on this issue and practice. Now, here, in the 6th article, the race of individuals, ethnicity, political thinking, philosophy, religion, or other beliefs, clothing and clothing; association, foundation or union membership; health, sex life, punishment and biometric and genetic data are considered as special personal data. The individual's will is ignored, and it is doubtful what will happen in the context of these transfers, as well as in the case that personal data provided in Articles 8 and 9 can be transferred to third persons and the person concerned abroad without open consent. Of course, there's a board in place. Three of the members of the council are appointed by the Prime Minister and three others by the President. Those who will serve on the board will be impartial, it is said. In recent years in our country, it will be seen how neutral the boards have been about this, and it will be examined, that in its essence, neutrality has become a function that is only supposed to remain but does not survive much in actions and practices. The members of the council are said to be able to publish scientificly, give lectures and lectures, and receive royalties from them, which will not interfere with their original duties. Now, here's something that interests me a lot: he can't do business, but he can't work in a co-op based on the law, but he's giving conferences and lectures. I mean, what's the context of the individual's information about the hidden issues that need to remain undisclosed? Now, in Turkey, we forget the past a little too quickly. But, you remember, there was an incident with the marrow, and when the data about it began to gather, the Minister of Health at the time had made important talks in the House about how Turkey's data would be smuggled abroad. The time has passed, and now we're going to make it a law, we're going to compile the data, and we're going to entrust it to someone. It's also stated that the people we trust will take their vows. How faithful he has been to the oath in our country is still in the past with his examples. We take the oath that exists, but we don't fulfill the oath in practice. For him, it is difficult and difficult to understand and understand why the individual should remain in the individual's collection of personal data, whether it is generalized by the law or taken over by it. If the opposition is saying something, it's hard to understand the reason why it's been done in order to prevent it or not, because one day, when you're not in power, this time you're not in power, it's also a problem for you. So, we've seen similar situations in the problems with the laws we've had recently. Therefore, the voice of opposition must be heard. We also want to see here what the HDP (HDP) said or how the CHP also opposed it. In this context, as the Republican People's Party, I would like to welcome you all with these wishes to join us as well as the efforts to withdraw this bill and reorganise it and prevent personal data from being used in a different way in the future.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0341par0191	I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0342par0192	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0341par0193	One second... let's vote, then Mr. Akchay. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0343par0196	Mr. Speaker has been picking on our party for a reason we don't understand by mentioning its name. And because of the bullying, we want promises.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0344par0197	We didn't quite understand your attitude toward the law, he said.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0341par0198	Mr. Akçay, you have a motion now; let's promise you five minutes on it, shall we? It'll be better. It's not two minutes, it's above your motion...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0343par0199	We have a speaker, and he speaks, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0345par0200	I mean, what does picking on the speech have to do with it?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0341par0201	Wait... what did he say? I really missed it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0346par0202	So they didn't do the real thing. They're not making proper opposition, he said.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0347par0203	We want to see how the National Movement Party opposes this issue.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0348par0204	They don't give him the right to play, he said.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0349par0205	Mr. President, for the same reason...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0350par0206	Mr. Akçay, let me give it to you alone, please, let's not take too much advantage of it. Here you go. Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0351par0211	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Mr. President, as you can see, we're not picking on anyone, but we're trying to get picked on by our party in a meaningless way. Sure, we'll give you the answers. But I'm not going to answer carefully with a taunt because we also think it's intentional. However, the National Movement Party's views on all matters are uncompromising, primitive, consistent and clear. This has been made very clear in both our programme and our election statements, as well as in the statements of our president and party officials. In matters relating to these immunitys, we stand by what we say about terrorism, about the Protection of Personal Data Act, about constitutional amendments, and we always have. We want to continue these policies in a accurate and consistent manner. Let those who can't keep up with their policies think about it. I mean, I don't want to go too far, but should I, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0352par0216	You've been making fun of me. Don't make me pick on you or this will go away.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0353par0218	I think... keep the size, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0354par0219	For him, let me tell you, the National Movement Party is a more consistent party than the Republican People's Party. [[Noises from CHP rows]] My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0353par0223	I'm glad you didn't pick on me, Mr. Akçay!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0354par0224	I couldn't help myself. What should I do, sir?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0355par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0353par0226	Mr. Baluken, for the same reason, I'll give you my word. Here you go. Congressmans, please, I beg you, let's put aside these intentional taunts because I may not be able to promise any other time. I'll tell you that, too.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0356par0229	Mr. President, you're reading intent. Why would it be intentional?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0353par0230	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0357par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, of course, the MP speaking on behalf of the Republican People's Party has expressed that both the law and the general position of HDP are not clear. I don't think he's getting the chance to follow the HDP enough, Congressman. Regarding this law, not according to the EU criteria, but because the AKP has been drafted according to the ruling criteria, it must be taken to the commission; almost every HDP MP has expressed his messages from here that, in terms of constructive contributions to a particular debate, consultation, and co-operation with the General Assembly. However, the CHP has long sought not only to lose its base to the HDP, but has not fulfilled the active opposition duty of a country's main opposition party, except for a few exits that will please the stands. So, today, for example, they've brought an offer of law here, a very important proposal of law -- that even though there's a law that needs to be discussed for hours in all commissions and the General Assembly, there's a law that needs to be explained to society about it, it pretends that it's in the General Assembly that it's discussing and following the issues that are very important in the five-minute negotiations. There's an election dam in it, there's arrangements for the Meeting and Show Act, there's regulations for the protection system, there's issues about opening up propaganda in the main language, but it's really about telling the public about this as the main opposition party, instead of mobilising the Assembly, if you bring it in here and talk about it for five minutes, you'll believe yourself; society won't believe it, we won't believe it. Our position on everything is very clear. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0358par0238	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0359par0239	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0358par0240	Mr. President, you, of course, smile, I understand, but now everything has its limits.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0359par0241	Of course...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0358par0242	I mean, that's...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0359par0243	Okay, I'll give you two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Altay. But let's not cross this line, please, let's finish this. I mean, the opposition, the opposition, the bullying... Here you go, sir. I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0360par0250	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Now, I really don't understand, Mr. President here, maybe he thinks that there's some sort of consulting fight going on, but there's never any such thing.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0361par0253	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0360par0254	There's no such thing. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] But, of course, our congressman, both the HDP and the MP, either have a small criticism or their attitude towards this bill, perhaps even more so in the next few minutes, in the language of our MP, in which we understand. However, it was a normal thing, a natural situation. Mr. Group Vice President has been very critical of our position. We can't possibly accept that, Mr. Baluken. Whether it is about this law, whether it is about the fundamental issues of Turkey, or the stance of the Republican People's Party, if the position of other political parties that constitute the Assembly were clear, Turkey would not have experienced much of the suffering it faces today. We -- I've also warned Mr. Government today -- that Turkey has more serious, more fundamental problems, so don't waste ten days of Parliament on jobs that will take a day of Parliament. This Parliament must do nothing but resolve the issue of terrorism, except to solve this problem that Turkey is involved in, which has imprisoned the citizen in the house. But what the hell! People are miserable, you don't care. And one of them says, "We're going to be one of those who frightens fear." But you don't have to go to the mosque with 500 guards to scare fear, brother. (HPP) You can't be one of those who come to the mosque with 500 guards, 250 bodyguards to the parliament to scare the people; you scare them; in all the major cities of Turkey, streets and streets turn into curfews. That's a shame enough for the government.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0362par0263	Yes, I'm reading the next motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the 9th article of the Law on Protection of Personal Data, which is listed in 117 rows, shall be changed in the form of............................................................................................................. Baki Simsek (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0363par0268	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0362par0269	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0364par0270	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0365par0271	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0362par0272	I'm reading the reason: A review of the opinions of relevant institutions and organisations will be given to foreign countries is envisioned by the removal of a vague expression such as "in need." I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 10: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the Charter for Protection of Personal Data, which is in the 117 rows that "personal data be changed" to "real people who have been processed." Baki Simsek Nuri Okutan İsmail Faruk Aksu Erkan Haberal Desire Erdem Kamil Aydın Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the Law on Protection of Personal Data, 117 rows, which is discussed, shall be changed in (1) the following way. MADDE 10- (1) The data manager or the person he authorized during the extraction of personal data, A) The identity of the data manager and its representative, B) For what purpose will personal data be processed, C) To whom and for what purpose the processed personal data can be transmitted, ) The method and legal reason for collecting personal data, D) Other rights listed in Article 11 He is obliged to provide information on the matter in writing. Namik Havutça Ömer Süha Aldan Özkan Yım Cemal Okan Yüksek Zeynel Emre Haydar Akar Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of jokes (2), (3) and (4) to Article 10 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data Number 117. İdris Bauken Osman Baydemir Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Meral Danış Beştaş Erol Dora Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Garo Paylan (2) If personal data is deleted, destroyed or anonymously, the head of data is also obliged to inform the person involved. (3) If personal data is obtained from sources other than the person concerned, the data manager will also inform the relevant person if available and possible. (4) Any information the data manager gives to the person concerned is used in a clear, simple language, devoid of technical details. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0366par0314	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0362par0315	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0367par0316	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0362par0317	İstanbul MP Garo Paylan has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0368par0320	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Now, there's gonna be a board to protect our personal data, that's great. Western democracies have similar ones, but there, citizens rely on the state to preserve these data because they have democratic practice. I mean, the government will take care of our lineage, our religion, our cult, yes, but there's no such thing as taking care of our religion in the West. Our state isn't a democratic state, we haven't established democratic practice yet, we don't have that kind of assurance. The government's always tagged us, you know, so it's not the first time our personal data's been collected. Almost everyone who exists here, or their father or grandfather, has been tagged all the time to this day, and this group has been tagged, and there's no one in every group that isn't tagged, I'm sure. The state has always identified an enemy, marked it in this frame; some of it has marked it out, some of it called it terror, some of it called it leftist, some of it called it right-wing, some of it marked according to its religion.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0369par0324	That's back in the 90s.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0368par0325	For example, he tagged me according to my bloodline; as we said, we don't know where the Home Secretary -- the Armenian's blood code 2, Greek's 1 -- is still in the depths of the state, Mr. Secretary, we don't know. He marked me according to my religion, he tagged me according to my faith, and he committed crimes against me. Let me give you some examples of myself: For example, he gave my grandfather a property tax, based on what? According to the tag.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0369par0327	That's exactly why we're taking it off.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0368par0328	On September 6, 7, 1955, according to our descendants, our homes came and were looted. In the 2001 National Security Policy Document, minorities were considered a threat, and on top of that, deep structures or structures on the surface -- of course, you were in the government -- they committed the murders of Reverend Santoro, Hrant Dink, Malatya Summit. This government always plugs and commits crimes in this frame. You know that very well. Up until just ten years ago, five years ago, you were branded under the name 'irtica'. In this frame, I don't trust this government, and I don't want to give this government my personal data. And since this board will not be a democratic board, I know it will not be a pluralistic, supervised board, I do not want my data to exist on such a board for the time being. Like, who's going to supervise this board? I've checked, Mr. Secretary. Who's going to supervise?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0370par0330	The board, the independent board.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0368par0331	I mean, he's so independent! RTÜK is independent.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0371par0332	Judicial control, judgment.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0368par0333	They're all independent. How wonderful are the boards you've built? There's no board to supervise.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0372par0334	Free of the public!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0368par0335	Dear friends, in that respect, unless we are a pluralistic democracy, we should never allow this branding board unless it is the issue of our descendants, sopu, religion, religion, the religion, sexual orientation, the matter of the state or the matter of humiliation or exaltation. First, let's make a democratic constitution, a democratic constitution. Let's set up a practice with balance control, if we're building a board based on it. If our evidence is held equally, let it be kept, but open to inspection. Look, I have concerns, I have serious concerns, because I've been being bullied for four generations. And you've all been to a certain generation, each and every one of you. I am anxious, and you should be anxious, because you feel strong today, and you make a law, and tomorrow we are deceived. Someone could use it against you. Let's not get ahead of ourselves, fellas. Let me be clear, the CHP has just criticised us, but I've never seen the CHP's opposition today -- such a vital law -- dear friends -- such a weak and inept opposition. Yeah, we're short here because there's a very serious fire in the area, our friends are missing...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0373par0339	It's always missing.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0368par0340	...but we're looking at the CHP Group, with 15 to 20 people who are extremely weak and uncompromising. In that sense, I'd like to say that they're missing too. I propose that we withdraw this law immediately and renegotiate the commission and not pass this law until it becomes a democratic constitution, friends. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0374par0344	Why did you say yes in the commission so quickly?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0375par0345	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0376par0346	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0377par0347	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0376par0349	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There aren't 80 people, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit07spe0377par0350	There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0377par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 117 from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. On the 10th article, there was no sufficient number of decisions during the vote of İstanbul MP Garo Paylan and his friends. I submit the motion to your votes again, and I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the Law on Protection of Personal Data, 117 rows, which is discussed, shall be changed in (1) the following way. MADDE 10- (1) The data manager or the person he authorized during the extraction of personal data, A) The identity of the data manager and its representative, B) For what purpose will personal data be processed, C) To whom and for what purpose the processed personal data can be transmitted, ) The method and legal reason for collecting personal data, D) Other rights listed in Article 11 He is obliged to provide information on the matter in writing. Namik Havut (Fishesir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0378par0020	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0377par0021	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0379par0022	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0377par0023	Afyonkarahisar MP Burcu Koksal asking for a word on the motion.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0380par0025	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 10th Amendment to the Protection of Personal Data Act. The AKP mentality doesn't want to protect personal data. You're going to want to protect personal data, and you're going to give the law a lot of open-ended exceptions, and that's not going to happen. For him, your main goal is to tag people, just like you did in the past. In the past, didn't you label people or separate them and replace them? Look, the trainers you plugged in 2014, the managers. And you didn't even register them as left-wingers, you even tagged them in yourself. It's the data that the EDUCATION-HIS has explained. Educators who have applied to you for promotion in the provinces, for office, for promotion, and who have been able to score, who have not come to their rightful place only because of their political opinion or the union they belong to. These are the leftist, the rightist, the nationalist, the educators you've tagged as Alevi. I'm a teacher's kid. My father was a leftist, so we suffered a lot for years, but he had to retire in your power because he was a leftist. You don't send specialists to the state hospital in Sultandakü district where the Republican People's Party has been released since it won't vote for you in my constituency.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0381par0029	Fear God, fear God!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0380par0030	You condemn the villagers to drink arsenic water in Sultandağ Çukurcak village, where the cattle die every day, and you, those people, you have replaced them just because they voted for the Republican People's Party, you don't give jobs to the people who work there. We had a town of Sorkun -- which you closed -- a friend of ours from Sorkun, who applied to drive to the province's private administration, was not hired because he was from Sorkun, because he was a Republican People's Party. There's no one else in this country who can do or do anything else. You're rounding up the chiefs of staff to the palace, putting pressure on them, and your city council members are pressuring the chiefs. That's how you think you're going to cover up the problems. Just last night, I was in the village of Hanitkaya in central Afyon, and the villagers are talking about drinking water. The Mukhtar announced that the canalization water was mixed in the drinking water. The villagers have been unable to drink grid water for about a month.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0381par0032	You're not telling the truth!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0380par0033	That's what they say in the coffee, the head of the town council -- that's under such pressure that your mayor -- says, "It's okay, we're drinking, we're drinking." But my peasant friend sitting next to him says, "We can't drink network water, we're mixed up in the sewer water."
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0381par0034	You're not telling the truth!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0380par0035	Get your hands off the chiefs, put the pressure away. The peasant says so, and your chiefs will deny it as much as they want. I went to the stale Derbent last week.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0382par0037	Get to the point, will you?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0380par0038	The road to the village of Derbent isn't built, it's broken. There is no river reform in Abdullah neighborhood, and people live under flood threat. Your mayor says it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right. The villager says it's rioting. Get your hands off the chiefs, don't press them.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0383par0039	The head of the village, not ours!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0380par0040	Dinar Yiprak, there's a road problem. I went in person. I walked to the citizen's house because my car wouldn't leave. I told you that the next day, your mayor and your member of the county general assembly press-pulled the head and took pictures of the head of staff, saying, "There's no road problem, we've flooded the service." You can't cover up problems with this. You can't stay in power by tagging people, disassemble them, isolate them.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0383par0041	The vote we received from Opium is clear, Mrs. Burcu, the vote we received from Afyon. He's made his choice in opium.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0380par0042	Look, Southside, Akcharar, Kayabelen, Alanyurt, these are the villages of Alevi, memorize them well, these are the villages where the Republican People's Party comes first.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0384par0043	You're wrong.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0380par0044	You don't give these villages enough service to punish them, you don't give them enough service because you don't give them enough service or do less service or delay the service. You're the only ones who don't. One of them says: "If I were a dictator, you wouldn't be able to go to the squares. " People can't leave their homes because of fear, because of their safety.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0385par0046	Holy shit!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0380par0047	Is he more of a dictator?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0385par0048	It's you!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0380par0049	With respect and love to all of you...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0386par0051	What happened on November 1st, November 1st?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0387par0052	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0388par0053	Wait a second... I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0387par0055	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0388par0056	Here you go, Mr. Ozkaya.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0387par0057	As MP of Afyonkarahisar, I would like to answer the words of Mr. Koksal.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0388par0058	Now, I'll give you a minute of your position, not a tease.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0389par0059	But, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0387par0060	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0388par0061	No, don't pick on yourself, please, just a minute at your place...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0387par0062	I'm the MP for Afyonkarahisar, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0388par0063	Mr. Özkaya, please... there's no bullying. For God's sake! Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0390par0065	Mr. President, then we'll have to make a promise. We're members of the Turkish Parliament, representing all provinces. What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0391par0068	Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, Burcu Hanım went to the village of Yıprak last week, but he went the wrong way, went to the fields, so both our city general Assembly member Hüseyin Demirkan Bey and District Chairman Burhanettin Bey and Yiprak village Mukhtar Huşin Bey, Mr. Burcu Koksal have gone the wrong way and therefore there is no trouble in his village... About 20,000 square metres of hardwood were made this year. Our village has been made a school, a carpet field, a sports field in our village this year. Thus, the Yiprak received the greatest service in history.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0392par0071	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0391par0072	Other than that, there is never a water shortage in any village in Afyonkarahisar, but all villages have sewers. I mean, I guess Burcu Haným went to other villages, the wrong place. So, I'm sorry. Afyonkarahisar is one of the best-working institutions of the city's general parliaments in Turkey. I visited our General Secretary Recep Bey of the City General Assembly yesterday. These were all our friends, the chiefs, and they used to be CHP...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0393par0074	Our mayors are brave men, brave men our chiefs!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0391par0076	Look, none of them are afraid.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0394par0077	Sir, what an endless minute!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0391par0078	Last week, again, he's a social-democratic friend of ours, and he's going to the floor at the invitation of our President, and the coven is very, very proud of this nation's...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0395par0080	Yes, Mr. Ozkaya. Mr. Rootsal, please.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0396par0082	Don't talk to our mayors, they're brave men!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0397par0083	Bravo Osman, bravo
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0398par0085	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0399par0086	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0398par0087	Our congressman's...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0400par0088	Look what's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0399par0089	Please, Congressmans, I'm listening to Mr. Altay. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0401par0091	As the MP, of course, I find it perfectly normal for our MP to respond as a ruling party MP to the reactions, criticisms of the problems in Afyon. What's unusual is, Mr. Congressman and Mr. President, you're lawmakers in the same county, you'll be there tomorrow on holiday, in pain, in grief. It is not appropriate for an MP to accuse another member of the province of not knowing the ways of its villages, its boroughs. (EC PARTY RINGS) It's an open taunt, it's a very obvious taunt; we want a two-minute word.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0399par0092	Mr. Koksal, please, I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not make a new tease out of this, please don't make it personal.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0402par0096	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are from Mr. Ozkaya Dinar, but I think he doesn't know the way to Vafovasi because he hasn't been around much. There is only one way, and I know the ways of Yiprak, and so do the inhabitants of York. I went to Yiprak myself, and was a guest in the house of Veli Bey. I had to walk about two kilometers because my car couldn't get out of that way, and Mr. Veli told me that he had to take his sick mother down with a blanket before she died because let alone the car, the ambulance couldn't get out of there. So I suggest to him from here: Let's go together: all the villages of Dinar, all the villages of Afyon, all the villages of Afyon, what's the problem? (HRP rows, sounds, applause) So we drown them in service.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0403par0097	Wrong or wrong, is what I'm saying wrong?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0404par0098	Only our chiefs have the heart, and our chiefs have the heart, so set him straight.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0402par0099	Let us look together at the ways of Yiprak, and go together to the villages of Afyon; and let us look together at our districts, and together we will find and solve the tribulations. So, as in TOKI dwellings, the Dinars are guilty, TOKI is right. It's not like saying, "It's not like blaming your countrymen." It's like blaming Afyon MP Burcu Haným. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0404par0102	Only the chiefs have heart, but they are not cowards; the chiefs have heart.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0405par0103	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0406par0104	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0405par0105	Mr. Ozkaya, just a moment.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0406par0106	In accordance with Article 69, I'd like to direct myself...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0405par0107	Wait a second. Look, it's been thought to be: it's been decided to explore the scene and invite all lawmakers. [[Applause]] I'll move on to the next motion. Read it, sir. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and recommend that the declaration of the 10th article of the Common Law on Protection of Personal Data, which is in the 117 rows, be replaced by the actual person who has been processed with personal data. Baki Simsek (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0407par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0405par0120	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0408par0121	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0405par0122	Ankara MP Mustafa Mit demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mit.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0409par0125	Mukhtars are not cowards.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0410par0126	No, you're putting pressure on him, you're putting pressure on him.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0409par0127	No, look, you said you were afraid, you said you were a coward. Don't. The biggest mistake for a politician. We'll give it to the chiefs, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0410par0128	Look, I didn't say scared, I said afraid. I said, "Don't be afraid." I said, "Don't be afraid." I said, "Don't be afraid."
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0409par0129	No, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0411par0130	Congressman, yes, it's mature, understood.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0410par0131	You're not gonna go to the mayor's office and get your picture taken under duress!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0409par0132	You show me the report, what did you tell the chiefs?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0410par0133	You're not gonna go to the mayor's office and get your picture taken under duress!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0412par0134	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0410par0135	You'll see the troubles of the Dinar, Mr. Ali, the Dinar.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0412par0136	We fixed that in Dinar.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0410par0137	You will not blame the Dinarians!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0412par0138	...and your provocation.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0410par0139	You will not blame your countrymen!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0413par0141	Mr. Rootsal, please...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0410par0142	You will take care of your dinarite!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0414par0143	Don't worry, I figured that out too, so you keep yelling around here!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0413par0144	Mr. Mit, take the stand.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0415par0145	But you won't mess with the chiefs.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0416par0146	Dinar votes for us, he doesn't vote for you; don't be angry because you can't get votes.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0415par0147	He'll bury him in a trunk. You can't be here next election.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0417par0148	Mr. Rootsal, please, it's not nice.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0418par0149	Tell Osman something, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0419par0150	You keep yelling.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0420par0151	We weren't buried, we got the highest vote in Dinar, even though Mr. Ali was nominated.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0421par0152	Mr. Koksal, look, I've invited the preacher to the stand, so please respect the witness.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0422par0153	Don't talk to the mayors, chief man...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0420par0154	I don't talk to the mayors.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0422par0155	You said it, look, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0420par0156	You can't put pressure on the Mukhtars by scaring them.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0422par0157	The Mukhtars are brave, brave!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0420par0158	You can't cover up problems by scaring the Mukhtars.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0423par0159	Mr. Rootsal... Dear Mit, I'll start your five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0424par0162	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 10th Amendment to the Protection of Personal Data Act, 117 rows under discussion. I salute the General Assembly. The protection of personal data and processing of personal data in more than 100 states around the world are legally applied. The referendum on September 12, 2010 and the third amendment of Article 20 of the Constitution were adopted as the basic human rights to protect personal data. Because it's an indicator of modern government, we care about the protection of personal data. The European Union's rights on Article 95/46/EC are also covered by this information on what to inform the person concerned with the article, which is thought to be based on the Protection of Real Persons and the Director of Free Data Traffic. In the bill, the esteemed lawmakers have been described as the real and legal person responsible for the establishment and management of the data registration system, which determines the purpose and means of processing personal data. One of the critical points in the preservation of personal data brought under the bill is the data manager. The appointment and identification of those who are entitled to personal data must be defined in detail at a hierarchical level. This must be arranged by a separate substance. The individual characteristics of the data manager and the person to be authorized should be appropriate with this task and responsibility. It is imperative that the head of data should be defined in relation to the confidentiality of a secret license required by his duties and responsibilities, as well as to the discretionary provisions in the mere legislation. Due to the fact that personal data has been obtained and used by various institutions and institutions, given the disciplines and hierarchical structures of these institutions and institutions, the legal status of each structure should be categorically classified because various legal structures may differ in interpretation of the general definition of Article 3. Dear lawmakers, in accessing personal data, it must be documented that the data manager or representative will provide information to those involved. Documentation requirements must be included in the law. Although it requires a bureaucratic procedure, the rights and law of citizens of the Republic of Turkey are above all else. To put up with this burden must be judged in the concept of public order. Full disclosure of what purpose and what processes are involved in the personal data that the citizen has entrusted to the trust will provide security against charges and slanders that will lead to the data manager. Dear lawmakers, it is intended that the 10th article of the bill (c) be informed of the person concerned with whom the data can be transferred to, for what purposes. In the bill brought in, the concept of "uriza" must be changed to "lightened consent" in accordance with the facts of Turkey. It is necessary to investigate that the level of social, cultural and education of the person involved is at a level that can understand the information given, and that the lack of light is maintained based on the document, based on the material or as a separate substance. The basic concept of the bill, the legal interest, must also be explained to the person concerned with the full disclosure of the legal framework and its legal responsibilities, should be made sure that the person understands this. The sense of security with the ability to judge the interview with the data manager that we're dealing with one-on-one... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is clear that it is the result of legitimate interest and enlightened consent accepted by us. These two concepts are essentially the basis of the bill. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0425par0170	Thank you, Mr. Mit.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0426par0171	Mr. President, I want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0425par0172	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor of the motion... those who refuse...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0426par0174	I've counted, President, 126 people, I swear to God.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0425par0175	The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 11 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article (1) (d) of Article 11 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data, which is listed in 117 rows, be changed in the following way. "d) Do not want to be corrected if personal data is missing or wrongly processed against your will." Namik Havutça Ömer Süha Aldan Özkan Yım Cemal Okan Yüksek Zeynel Emre Haydar Akar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data (G) be changed in the following way. İdris Bauken Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Merkel Danış Beştaş Osman Baydemir Ayhan Bilgen Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı G) Do not object to personal data processing conducted by automatic vehicles, causing negative consequences, which does not justify the consent of the person involved, the law or a contract, Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following (h) be added to the end of article (1) of Article 11 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data, which is currently in session. Baki Simsek Nuri Okutan İsmail Faruk Aksu Erkan Haberal Desire Erdem Kamil Aydın To learn legal ways to apply and follow Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0427par0207	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0425par0208	Ankara MP Erkan Haberal has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0428par0211	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on Article 11 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data in 117 rows, with respect to the General Assembly. Dear MPs, I have listened very seriously and carefully to the Minister's speech on this bill. The Minister painted a painting so beautiful that he naturally caused us to have doubts with question marks as opposition. There's a saying in Anatolia, which is actually a joke: a rat looked, a hole open, cheese big, but no cat. Mr. Secretary described it so beautifully here, and he told it so beautifully, but I'd like to turn to the Minister and ask him: Madam Secretary, there's no cat, there's a problem somewhere. Members of parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, this is not a tag law, it is a law to protect the citizens' personal and private data. And I'd like to ask you, how does it protect the data that can't protect the individual? There are statements that violate the Constitution, human rights and humanity, which are classified as protecting personal data and protecting specific personal data. Who cares about the race of people? Who cares about people's ethnicities? For whom is the political view of individuals precious? Who is responsible for the religious faith, the religion? Who does the disguise matter to? There's a substance, a substance written as sexual life of individuals, that I can't even find a question for. Those who attempt to govern the state, whether it's serious or illegal, will be part of the corrupt order. The purpose for me to express it is that so far there have been illegal transactions in the transfer and administration of the state, and personal data has been distributed. Is it disbanded? It's gone. Here you go: Anonymous. What happened? The elements, institutions, corporations inside the state gave private information about individuals, gave it to their own institutions, gave it to their own people. Who was supposed to build trust in the government? He ruled. Who do we ask the question of that? We'll ask the government. It's especially because people who are part of the state mechanism reveal the secrets of the state, so it doesn't happen again tomorrow. Congressmans, in the same time process, I'm a man who's been listened to with a lot of accusations that make no sense, such as being a radical left, radical right, radical religious organization member, plus his personal life, personal data, the headlines in the newspapers; I say that as a person who's experienced all these things, the state needs to build trust; I say, the person, the individual needs to be trusted in the state. I say it is the government's responsibility and the government's responsibility to build that trust. In addition to all these issues, I'm saying the state requires continuity, and I'm saying that trying to run a state with the joys of executives and politicians sitting in the seat will give birth to parallels, symmetry, symmetry, intersects, intersects, conflictes, and so on. If personal data was written in the law, it was left to people to demand information about it, to know the purpose of the process, to find out if it was appropriate for its purpose. I'd like to ask you from this grand assembly bench: What question do we get when we are members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? While the ministers do not stoop to answering even the written questions we ask, we calculate here that the normal citizen will be able to answer the questions he asks after the establishment of such a board. No way. How functionally the citizens of the Law on Information have been benefited, what citizens have been benefited from in the past years, and what questions have the government executives answered in the framework of these institutions and these laws, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0429par0222	The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0430par0225	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0429par0226	There's a request for a roll call before you submit the motion to your votes. Mr. Altay, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Division, Mr. Emre, Mr. Bektaşoğlu, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Gökslan, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Sarıbal, Mr. Demir, Mr. Topal, Mr. Akar, Mr. Koksal, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Simsek. 20 people were found. Now I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data (G) be changed in the following way. İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends G) Do not object to personal data processing conducted by automatic vehicles, causing negative consequences, which does not justify the consent of the person involved, the law or a contract, Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0431par0242	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0429par0243	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0432par0244	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0429par0245	Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen is asking for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0433par0248	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, I think one of the best, relatively good items in this bill is this 11th article because there are regulations about the rights of more than the powers of the board, but I would rather remind you of something else than actually sharing my own personal comments about the general matter. Two years ago, in the 11th month of 2013, the State Control Board of the President conducted a survey of the two ministries in Turkey, two general managers and two different institutions to determine how much personal data is protected. If you write 800 pages of research on the Internet, you can also find it on the website of the President of the Republic of Turkey, but Google can also find 50 pages on personal data -- 50 pages open, 750 pages hidden, but the end section is open. Now, there's no way I'm going to share the whole thing with you in a few minutes, but there are very serious allegations that public officials share personal data with you, on-line, on-line. Again, there are very serious indications that institutions do not have a strategy to protect personal data, that they do not have a written policy document to protect data. If you'll take a look at these 50 pages before these materials are finished... if the continuity in the state is fundamental... if this report that was made to the State Control Board during the previous President is serious -- there's the Ministry of Justice, there's the Ministry of Health, there's the General Directorate of Finances, there's the SEC -- the practice of personal data in different institutions has been considered, the critical situation has been assessed, and it's recommended, if I can't remember, about 40 -- it's recommended, 37, and it's recommended. And in the end, there's a sentence in the report that says that most of the institutions that have been studied don't actually have any systems about protecting data, some of which are very limited, very narrow, and not regular enough. It's practical, it's the fact that the photos of institutions in Turkey were taken like this, and despite this photograph, we're making an arrangement here today just to save the process of European Union. Isn't it enough to save something different, but at the end of the report, there's a very clear warning that institutions must make serious, urgent arrangements to address these shortcomings. Now, has there really been a serious structural change in the bureaucracy in Turkey over the past two years? I'll leave it to you. But the world is talking about two other things about Turkey today. We're just fooling ourselves by drowning on our own agenda and taking away how Turkey is perceived in the world. One of the two agendas is the explosion in Brussels. A few hours ago, I spoke to my friends in Brussels, mostly Turks -- let's call them Emirdağs -- there are allegations that there are symbols, explosives, chemical weapons in the neighborhoods they live in. These will be written and debated about Turkey in the coming days, but there is another agenda regarding Reza Zarrab. In fact, if this Parliament had done its duty more seriously, at least it could have been protected from that agenda, so we did not like the agenda in Belgium, Brussels, but it could have been protected from it. You know, when the immunity of the four ministers was discussed here, the House rejected it with a majority of votes, but I think the black box of the plane that fell into Miami fell into someone else's hands. We all know that in America, a guilty plea and a confession in judgment is a very serious, crucial measure in the reduction of punishment. So, in the coming days, the very serious things about Turkey's customs, about the People's Bank in Turkey, unfortunately, if it is spoken there and the whole world is moved to the public, I think it will have a serious responsibility, a responsibility, a responsibility to this Assembly, which does not take this matter seriously, but does not take it to the extent of immunity. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0434par0254	I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0435par0255	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0434par0256	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article (1) (d) shall be changed as follows by Article 11 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data Number 117. If personal data is missing or wrongly processed against your will, do not ask them to be corrected. Namik Havut (Fishesir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0436par0264	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0434par0265	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0437par0266	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0434par0267	Balıkesir MP Namik Havutça who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0438par0270	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are trying to protect personal data, a state that can't protect the person in essence with the Protection of Personal Data Bill. Look -- our valued group vice president has just expressed in his speech -- people who are unable to appear on the agenda of Turkey today in Ankara Kızılay, who have been attacked there, who have lost their lives there, and who are now in the taxi, Reday, downtown Istanbul, and who are now about 3 million refugees in Turkey -- and who are concerned about these things -- I'm going to go to the region where we are -- where people are concerned about their economic problems and the lives of their military children, who are serving in eastern and southeast, and they are telling us: when are you going to bring them up? How many more of our children will we put in the grave? Look, we buried three of our martyrs in Balıkesir, and now our people have come to this point: If you will not talk about the lives of our children, why are you in that Parliament? Dear Minister, look, justice has a lot of problems, we can talk about all of this. I wish we could talk about your insistence on making a constitution by setting up a commission on the fight against terrorism, and now we can talk about this problem, which is Turkey's major problem, which is costing our people lives, but unfortunately we can't. What we're talking about right now is that we can't protect the person, we can't protect the person's life, but we're trying to protect the personal data. How do we protect him, too? Look, it turns out the Social Security Agency recently sold all personal data for 65 million Turkish liras. The SGC didn't deny it. Again, a group of hackers seized the police headquarters' data and opened the data on their websites. In addition, the Police Headquarters has not made any denials. So in Turkey, personal data is already on display today. In no country of the European Union, one's religion and personal life are not a subject of data. Mr. Secretary, why would we have such a thing? Who cares about the person's cult? Why does this come up in our law? Look, every law you passed here went to the Constitutional Court for violation of the Constitutional Court, and remember, the Constitutional Court has been issued a regulation on the government's failure to implement decisions on public officials for a year last term, and many public officials have been victimised; teachers, police directors. The Constitutional Court has revoked that law, and the administration courts are currently ruling in their favour, and the Security General Directorate, Judges and Prosecutors are writing instructions to the Supreme Council. This, this, these judges, should not decide to cancel these laws. Mr. Secretary, in a country where justice is the rule of law, does the Police Headquarters write instructions to HSYK, and complain to its judges? In that sense, this law, which is against the Constitution in many ways, will again be the same if we, again, are insisted on here and the required legal arrangement is withdrawn and not discussed in the commissions once again. In many ways, this law, which is known today as the law of disputation, will go to the Constitutional Court by our side again, be annulled from the Constitutional Court, and return to this place once again. We don't want to be right again. Come, indeed, let us bring here a legal arrangement in accordance with the Constitutional spirit of the European Convention on Human Rights, otherwise all this work will be in vain again. Now, we want to bring up a law in Turkey by discussing the culture of reconciliation that society expects of us, and in European norms, to regulate personal data in accordance with universal criteria. I hope you'll heed our warnings, or we'll put the Constitutional Court's decision before you once again in the coming term. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0439par0280	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At the end of article (1) of Article 12 of the Charter for Protection of Personal Data Number 117, which is currently being discussed, "The application bases of the Ratifications are determined by the Council." We offer and offer to add his notice. Baki Simsek Nuri Okutan İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Haberal Kamil Aydın İsmail Ok Desire Erdem Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th article of the Protection of Personal Data Charter (5) shall be changed in the following manner. In the event that personal data is obtained by others in illegal ways, the head of data informs the board of this situation as soon as possible. If necessary, the board can declare it on its own website or in some other way that the interested person will see fit. Namik Havutça Ömer Süha Aldan Özkan Yım Cemal Okan Yüksek Zeynel Emre Haydar Akar Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th article of the Law on Protection of Personal Data, 117 rows that are being discussed should be changed in the following way. İdris Bauken Osman Baydemir Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Meral Danış Beştaş Erol Dora Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir (2) If personal data is processed in its own name by another real or corporate person, the head of data is responsible for taking the measures set out in the first joke. However, in this case, the data manager has taken the necessary care to prevent the damage from being born, or the link between the damage and the injury is a strong cause, the damage, or 3. By proving that a person is cut off with a complete defect, he may be relieved of responsibility. (5) If personal data processed are obtained by others in illegal ways, the data manager will report the situation to him and to the Founder in 24 hours. If necessary, the board can declare it on its website or in some other way it will see fit. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0440par0312	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0439par0313	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0441par0314	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0439par0315	İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0442par0318	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I've been promised Article 12 of the Protection of Personal Data Act. I've been in more courthouses than I've been in the last week when I've been a lawyer, and I've even had nights in the morning. Why am I telling you this? Because really, as a speaker just said, how are we going to protect our data, personal data, if we can't protect our own people's lives? First, three of the academics who wanted peace were arrested. One is a very close friend of mine, Elvira Munchan, and she is currently in solitary confinement. You have certain judgments for people you don't know, for people you don't really know, and for people in that media, who have been replaced in the dark media. I'd really like you to get to know him. I recognized the other two things at the courthouse, and in the end, they were people who dealt with paper, not violence, not anything else. Then, a very close friend of mine, an Englishman, Chris, who had entered the courthouse to support them for 25 years, was taken into custody because he had an invitation to the HDP in his bag. A 63-year-old man was kept in security one night at the Police Department, and after that his process was really in the foreign branch, where he had to go abroad because it was unexpected, and his wife, his child, in the same way, was seriously victimized to these people. Now he's back to Turkey, fortunately, but in the end, it's a one-on-one thing. On the same day, my fellow lawyers, colleagues, who I was waiting with for Chris and other academics at the courthouse, and also with them that night really, you know, would something happen, his wife, his child, now nervous, the man is in custody. The people I'm talking about were taken into custody by midnight, morning, and we waited for those colleagues in the courthouse until six o'clock in the morning. My other friends waited until noon, and fortunately, our lawyer friends and their fellow inmates, the members of the Association of Prisoners' Families, were not arrested and released. But today, there was an appeal, and some were asked to arrest them. Is there any reason to arrest the people who come and go to the courthouse every day in front of judges, prosecutors, Mr. Secretary? And if you're a lawyer, and the arrest is a measure, if these people come into the courthouses themselves by having their bags searched, if they're in front of judges, prosecutors, are these decisions made by law, right or political law? It happened. I want to talk about something else about myself. I don't want to use my last name on my way here, and that's actually the right of women in this country. I've been using my own name all my life, Kyrestecioğlu, and now I've had to sue for it because I'm married. Because there's a Constitutional Court ruling, there's a European Court of Human Rights verdict, but what are women forced to do? Despite these decisions, we need to file a single lawsuit so we can use his last name alone. If I'm suing today, I can use my own last name tomorrow, on my own, but I don't think that's what a deputy is. We're here to solve this problem for the lawmakers, for everyone. So, I had to sue everyone to solve this problem, and I have to file an administrative lawsuit and another case, and then I'm going to sue for damages after I win these cases. Now, what's the point of all this? Really, we need to remember that we're here for the solution. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0443par0329	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0444par0330	There's a request for a roll call before I submit the motion to your votes, and I'll meet that request. Mr. Altay, Mr. Altay, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Emir, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Gektacıoğlu, Mr. Bektas, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Sarıbal, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Iron, Mr. Rootsal, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Akar... We're one short. Since we don't have the majority to ask for enough attendance...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0445par0335	Sir, Mr. Iron, you haven't counted Mr. Demir.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0446par0336	It didn't happen at the same time, Mr. President, it did.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0445par0337	20 sir, you haven't counted Mr. Demir.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0447par0338	Is Mr. Göker here?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0445par0339	Here.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0447par0340	Yes, sir, all right. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th article (5) of the Charter of Protection of Personal Data (117 rows) shall be changed in the following manner. In the event that personal data is obtained by others in illegal ways, the head of data informs the board of this situation as soon as possible. If necessary, the board can declare it on its own website or in some other way that the interested person will see fit. Mehmet Gökdağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0448par0354	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0447par0355	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0449par0356	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0447par0357	Gaziantep MP Mehmet Gökdağ has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Gökdağ. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We must have missed you while we were counting.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0450par0361	Mr. President, valued MPs, we are now here to talk about the Protection of Personal Data Act, we bring proposals, we propose amendments as Republican People's Party. This law is not the law of protecting personal data, it's a tag law, give it up. We say, you don't listen, you do what you know. We warn you, you do what you know -- as you always do -- and then they trick us, they deceive us, they deceive us, you say. Dear friends, please listen to all the Republican People's Party's proposals because the Republican People's Party does not say anything that does not benefit the public, does not make any suggestions. Don't tell us they tricked us. If you are so capable of being deceived, then listen; listen, friends, and do not be deceived.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0451par0363	Yeah, he's right.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0452par0364	Go ahead and tell that to everyone.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0450par0365	Look, you listened to our voice, you raised our pension 100 liras a month, was that bad?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0453par0366	We're gonna listen to you?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0450par0367	You listened to our voice, raised the minimum wage a little bit, was that bad?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0454par0368	They didn't believe what you said, they believed what we said.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0450par0369	You listened to our voice, took away the pension, was that bad? It's not bad. If there's anything good you've already done, it's what you've been listening to.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0455par0370	Why aren't people listening to you?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0456par0371	But people don't listen to you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0450par0372	Dear friends, look, now, you're showing the 1995 criteria for this law. There are 2015 criteria. We say, wait, wait, because after a while, you'll have to change that law. We're telling you, but for some reason, we're in a situation where we're in such a hurry. Look, what does the 2015 data say, it's very important? Personal data, right? Isn't that the law of protecting my personal efficiency? My consent must be very important, right? How can you do anything in my favor against my will? Who can? See, this consent, how does 2015 define the criteria? He says that the importance of the computational consent, but look, it says here, he cares so much that even his consent, in case there's a significant imbalance between the data controller and the data manager, does not create a legal basis. It's so important, so important, but you ignore it. Guys, come on. Really, it's not the law to be handed over to such political will, but you'll all regret it tomorrow, oh, you'll all regret it, you'll say, oh, you'll believe it, they tricked us, we didn't see it, we didn't sober up here. You say it, but it's too late. Dear friends, look, there is now the 7th article that regulates the deletion, destruction, or anonymization of personal data. Do you know what the 7th article says? Other laws on deletion, destruction, or anonymization of personal data contain provisions. The procedures and foundations for deletion, destruction, or anonymization of personal data are regulated by regulations. Now, you're organizing a detailed process of processing personal data. You also regulate the distribution of personal data in detail. You also regulate the exceptions of personal data in detail, but you leave the deletion, destruction, elimination to the regulations. You know what that means? This means that this law is more about processing personal data than protecting personal data, or for any reason, whether it's for money or for other purposes to be shared or transferred, friends. You leave everything about erasing legal regulations to other laws. Dear friends, in this case, this bill does not mean protecting personal data; it does not mean protecting personal data; look at the crimes today, it has a law that provides legal basis for crimes today, the legal basis for tagging. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0457par0378	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At the end of article (1) of Article 12 of the Charter for Protection of Personal Data Number 117, which is currently being discussed, "The application bases of the Ratifications are determined by the Council." We offer and offer to add his notice. Ahmet Selim Yurdakul (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0458par0384	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0457par0385	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0459par0386	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0457par0387	Anthalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0460par0390	Mr. President, the law is talking about various measures and audits to prevent the spread of personal data. Indeed, protecting and restricting access to personal data is very important, but we all know that the AKP government is a very criminal government in this regard. In particular, the health data of our citizens must be protected by strict measures. Personal data and personal security are fundamental human rights. If these data are in the hands of malicious people, it can cause life's problems that can't be undone. When we look at the law, it is clear that personal data is more focused on distribution and access than on protection. The law clearly states that even without open consent, a person's political opinion, faith, sect, clothing, association membership, health, biometrics and genetic data can be used for management and financing of health care services. Under the law, it is the Council of Ministers and the President who will appoint the board. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and members of the Council of Ministers of the AKP governments are people who have often changed their minds and, as we have seen, changed their behavior and acted so differently that one day they would say they were white the next day. Then how can these people trust you? How do we know you want to protect the Turkish nation's data? You're a party that deserves to be called a reputation as a successful government, to privatize, to sell things that we don't even think about for as many years as we know. For example, didn't you sell general health insurance data? You run our country without strategy, without knowledge of tactics. You're no different than a leaf in the current. In this case, the government must take the reins immediately, draw a thick line between him and the wild puppets ruled by international focus. The day is the day to respond to terrorists and their toxic spokesmen; the day is the day to repel those who seek the strength from the Turkish nation and the unity and unity of our country; the day is the day to trust in the Turkish Armed Forces and brave security forces, the most honorable military force on earth, and to stand by their heroic Turkish sons. We have the world's most competent, experienced security forces in the fight against terrorism. Today, we have to fight those who try to fight our nation's life by taking the harshest measures in the fight against terrorism. We're in the same line that we've always been about the interests of the Turkish nation and of the state. We, the National Movement Party, have always been away from these dirty criminal organizations, as well as those who open doors to these dirty criminal organizations. We know very well that those who put a shroud on the Turk did not take the liberty of doing so on their own. We hear there are people preparing for new initiatives such as negotiations, expansion, so-called peace. Come on, don't shoot these people in the back again, it's a shame. Your rag road maps, referred to as solution, have been fulfilled. Today, when our presence is threatened, I address the government: You no longer have the luxury of saying, "We are deceived. " On behalf of the Turkish nation, once again, to the AKP government: Are you with us in the fight against terrorism? We are always on the side of the Turkish nation and state. Everyone should know that no one can break our brotherhood, our thousand years of brotherhood, our unity, and our union, and no one will ever allow it. Whoever this is, I'm calling it from here, whether it's international forces or anyone who cooperates with them, no one can break our brotherhood and unity. I offer my love and respect.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0461par0398	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 13 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data in 117 rows that are being discussed in the following way. İdris Bauken Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Merkel Danış Beştaş Osman Baydemir Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Erol Dora [[Diyarbakır]] (2) The data manager results in requests in the application as soon as possible and as soon as possible in 30 days. Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm having them read the motions of the same nature. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the final sentences of the 13th article of the Charter of Protection of Personal Data, 117 rows discussed be removed from the text of the article. Baki Simsek Nuri Okutan İsmail Faruk Aksu Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın İsmail Ok Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 13th article of the Charter of Protection of Personal Data, 117 rows that are being discussed, shall be changed in the following way. The data manager results in requests in the application as soon as possible and as soon as possible in 30 days. The data manager accepts the request or rejects the reason and gives its answer to the person concerned in writing or electronics. If the application is approved, it will be carried out by the data manager. Namik Havutça Ömer Süha Aldan Özkan Yım Cemal Okan Yüksek Zeynel Emre Haydar Akar Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0462par0430	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0461par0431	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0463par0432	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0461par0433	Balıkesir MP Namık Havutça who wants to speak on the first motion of the same nature. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0464par0436	Mr. President, I've just been promised the 11th Amendment. The 11th article regulates the rights of individuals. Look, according to our Constitution, the last joke of the 20th article of our Constitution says that everyone has the right to ask for the protection of personal data about themselves. This right also includes information about personal data related to the individual, accessing these data, demanding that they be corrected or deleted, and learning whether they are used for their purposes. Personal data can only be processed in the cases envisioned by the law or by open consent. The fundamental and procedures for the preservation of personal data are regulated by the law. • Now, this decision of our Constitution is being made as clear and as a right. Again, in the bill of law, from the 11th article (g) to the bend (g) of the law, the rights of the person to the rights of this law are arranged, and in the last sentence, he says: "The person has these rights." What is right, my dear friends? In law school, students in the 1st grade are taught the concept of fucking rights. The right means that if a person's demand is granted to the law as a right, Mr. Secretary, it is now a duty, a responsibility to be carried out by the state. You are now making this right to be paid in Article 13, Constitutional, and the law. Do you give money to someone when you're taking the person's data? You're getting the person's data. So, why would a person pay for this data when he's willing to give it to the government, when it requires any expense? This is clearly unconstitutional, I'll tell you that for once. It's the most obvious, open Constitution. What we're going to say is, come, this arrangement is clearly against the Constitution when you try to give people a right to the Constitution and the law. We said that in the Commission, we submitted the amendment motion, our friends, but unfortunately, despite the strong voice of our friends, the Honorable President of the Justice Commission is a very good lawyer friend of ours, who's had a lot of time to write books about it, and I'm sure he's overlooked it, but unfortunately, we... our friends in the HDP Group hope and know that they've raised the same objections. So, we want to make decisions in the Justice and Development Party, and in the Justice Commission, as well as our friends in the Justice Commission, that we are trying to make decisions in that Commission with universal measurements, universal measures that justice has given us, unlike any other commission. Therefore, the measurements are certain, my dear friends. The state of the Republic of Turkey signed under the European Convention on Human Rights, adopted the European Union criteria, and we are obliged to make legal arrangements on universal criteria. See, the 90th article of our Constitution is very clear: international agreements that have been adopted according to law are under law. The European Convention on Human Rights organises personal rights in this sense. Look, Mr. Secretary, after Russia, we are the country that pays the highest compensation for human rights violations in the European Court of Human Rights. We're the last on everything in OECD, but we're the first on this. I'm saying after Russia because when Russia's population is rated, we pay a lot more compensation than Russia. Especially if the Constitutional Court doesn't examine issues related to human rights violations. In that respect, come... Another constitutional error is being made. You cannot give a person the rights given in the Constitution and the law with money; just like the right to education, if we give education free in primary school, as well as some health care rights to children, you cannot subject these personal data to a fee when requested, and I offer you the acceptance of our motion to correct it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0465par0442	On the other proposal of the same nature, İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0466par0445	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party on Article 13 of the Protection of Personal Data Act. I salute the General Assembly. Two of our ministers made a statement today. The first is the Foreign Minister, the second is the Minister of Family and Social Policy. After the explosion in Brussels in particular, the Foreign Minister has made a statement saying, "It is not appropriate for you to go to Brussels. I warn my citizens from here. So I smiled and said, "Yes, there's no explosion in the taxi, and there's no explosion in the square in Ankara!" Those are really bad explanations. Secondly, the indictment against the 10 children who were documented by 45 alleged rapes in the Karaman Public Prosecutor's Office has been accepted. The Minister of Family and Social Policy has made a statement regarding these rapes that occurred at KAIMDER and Ensar Foundation: "Once such an event will not cause us to make a big deal of it. "
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0467par0449	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0466par0450	Yes, valuable lawmakers are all about personal data, specific or identification, real and legal individuals. The concept of personal data is not only information that can help identify and identify individuals such as names, surnames, birthplaces, date of birth, and all physical, social, cultural, economic, and psychological information. This kind of data is the most basic data our nation needs to maintain. Turkey has drafted a draft law on protecting personal data under the approval of the Charter for Protection of Persons, which it signed in 1981, and has been sent to Turkey's Grand National Assembly in 2008 to discuss its accession process, but it has not yet begun to be discussed on the bill on the protection of personal data, even after eight years have passed. As you can see from here, Turkey is too late to organise the protection of personal data, and I don't think that the bill is fully compensated. The protection of personal data is a basic constitutional right. In this regard, there have been disorganized regulations made in various areas, but a framework law has not been regulated. Today, almost all of us actively share personal information on the Internet, social media, or everyday life with companies, people, various institutions and organizations. According to the third joke of Article 20 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to ask for protection of personal data related to him. This right also includes information about personal data related to the person, accessing these data, demanding that they be corrected or deleted and learning whether they are used for their purposes. Personal data can only be shared in the conditions envisioned by the law or by open consent of the person. The fundamental and methodical protection of personal data is regulated by law. It is a constitutional obligation to review the current arrangement and to show the necessary sensitivity in the application. Laws cannot violate the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, then, as the Constitution clearly states, people have the right to ask for protection of information about themselves, which we have no objection to, but unfortunately in our country, personal data is shared without permission, and privacy is violated by illegal listening and monitoring. Our people live anxiously in doubt that their personal information is being recorded. We, the National Movement Party, care about information safety. Our respect for our nation is essential. We've done everything we can to keep our nation safe and sound, and we'll keep doing it. In view of the bill, the regulations are from time to time removed from the understanding of the protection of personal data, and we understand very clearly that vague statements involved in the bill cause hesitations in implementing it. It is a positive step, of course, to make arrangements rather than to be suspended so far, but it is necessary to make decisive arrangements for the judiciary to be a guide to the issues in which it hesitates to make decisions. I stress with respect to the General Assembly that those who commit crimes related to personal data should be fully deterred by the criminal act of violating private life.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0468par0458	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 13th article of the Law on Protection of Personal Data, 117 rows, which is discussed, shall be changed in the following way. Imam Taşçıer (Diyarbakir) and his friends (2) The data manager results in requests in the application as soon as possible and as soon as possible in 30 days. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0469par0466	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0468par0467	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0470par0468	We disagree. Diyarbakır MP Imam Taşçıer demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Stonesman.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0471par0472	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding the 13th amendment to the Protection of Personal Data Act. If there is no democracy in that country, human rights are being violated, and if that country is still governed by the fascist constitution of September 12th, you should know that personal data being stored is used for other purposes, and that's how personal data is used in this context. There are nearly 25 million Kurds living in Turkey. Turkey has different ethnities, Turkey has different belief groups, there are Alevis, and they have always been oppressed, persecuted and tortured from this country, from this administration, from these regimes to this day. We had a motion a few hours ago. Our motion to be shown to us even the graves of Sheikh Sait, Seyit Reza and Saidi Nursi, Saidi Kurdi, has been denied, which has also shown to the press in the episode of Seyit Riza, the Prime Minister of the period, Mr. Erdogan. And let's look at the Kurds who died in torture in the 1980s, the Kurds who were killed in prisons. How far has a fascist dictatorship come? In the 1990s, there were 17500 unsolved cases in this state in Turkey. Almost all of these were Kurds, and these were done -- nowhere -- without being committed. Kurds in İstanbul were brought in, killed somewhere; Kurds in Ankara were brought in; Kurds living in Diyarbakır, living in Urbana, were killed by bullets in their heads and necks in Şırnak; and we will say that these data will be stored, and these people will not be tagged. This is storage for the receipt. It's certainly common in our blood that governments in a country without democracy, without human rights, where democratic culture is not developed will be able to tag them in their own interests. Consider: The president of a party that received 6-7 million votes is going to Cizre on the 22nd as of today, and is not allowed in Cizre. What happens if that kind of power comes into the hands of these chips, what happens if that information gets out? He abuses them. In advanced democracies, only such things are not abused; they are not used in places where democracy is, where human rights are, where it flourishes. Yes, in 2005, Prime Minister Erdogan arrived in Diyarbakır. The Kurdish problem is my problem. He said, "I will make an effort to solve this problem." He said, "I will even drink the poison that bores me for it." But where did the Kurdish problem come from today? In our districts today, where there are 100,000 populations, over a hundred days in our provinces, children can't go out; children are killed, women are killed, young people are killed, civilians killed. In such an environment, it is certain that the chips will be used for these things. That's why it needs to be taken care of. As long as there is no democratic constitution, no democratic society, such situations must be avoided. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0472par0482	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0473par0483	There is a demand for a sufficient number of meetings before the motion vote; I will meet this request. Mr. Altay, Mr. Emre, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Temer, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Emir, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Gaytancioğlu, Mr. Yım, Mr. Nefi Kara, Mr. Sarıbal, Mr. Demir, Mr. Akar, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Topal, Mr. Koksal, Mr. Erdem. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 13 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 14 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data Number 117 in the following way of Article (1) MADDE 14- (1) If the application is rejected, the answer is not found or answered during the period of the application, the person may file a complaint with the Board within 30 workdays from the time the data manager has learned the answer, and, of course, from the date of the application, 60 workdays. Namik Havutça Ömer Süha Aldan Özkan Yım Cemal Okan Yüksek Zeynel Emre Haydar Akar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the addition of the fourth joke to Article 14 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data Number 117, which is being discussed. Baki Simsek Nuri Okutan İsmail Faruk Aksu Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın İsmail Ok In any case, the right to sue the judicial authorities is reserved. Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the Law on Protection of Common Personal Data be changed in the following way. İdris Bauken Osman Baydemir Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Meral Danış Beştaş (1) If the application is rejected, the answer is not found or answered during the period of the application, the person may file a complaint with the Board within 30 days of the application date or 60 days from the time the data manager learns the answer. (2) Under Article 13 the application path cannot be applied for a complaint without being exhausted. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0474par0525	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0473par0526	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0475par0527	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0473par0528	Bingöl MP Hişyar Özsoy has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozsoy.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0476par0531	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This late at night, I made a promise on the 14th Amendment. However, I would like to share some information about the situation of these academics. Very recently, a 21 - year - old teacher was sentenced to death in Bingol, and lost his profession because of the Facebook footage he shared in Bingol. 20 years of school, 21 years of teaching... one of the charges brought against him is very interesting.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0477par0533	Who?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0476par0534	We have a teacher named Nihat, so we're not saying that. He shared a picture of my first election speech in my neighborhood, and they put it there as evidence of a crime. Of course, we're going to bring it up -- this is one of the examples. Because of that text by the Academics for Peace Initiative, one of our assistant professors at the University of Bingol had to quit his job and go abroad because of the abuses and threats he took. Esra Munchan has just been told by our Istanbul MP Fíliz Kerestecioğlu, a professor of psychology at Boğaziçi University. You're going to be studying for 20 or so years, so I guess it's because he spent 30 years with books, just signed a statement, and now he's not in jail, he's in solitary confinement, so his lawyer's been talking today. Now, there's this on one side. I guess the government thinks a little bit about things, so it's easy, you know, because they signed off on people working for 30 years, and I black out their lives. I guess he thinks it's like that. Because, you know, in a sense, it was under the President's orders that Esra Munchan be taken to prison. These academics entered and exited the front door of the court. The following day or the next day, these three academics were arrested and sent to prison. Now, that's part of the job. [[Noises]] Dear friends...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0478par0541	That's a shame, that's a shame.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0479par0542	We're listening, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0476par0543	Now, fellas, I've seen what some of these guys have been up to, these guys coming in. They studied, they tried, they worked, they went to great colleges in the world.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0480par0544	Tell me, tell me.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0476par0545	Wait a second, I'll tell you about the chancellor you've appointed, you won't be able to speak.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0480par0546	Tell me, tell me, we're listening.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0476par0547	The vice president has spoken -- he has already resigned; look, look at the people who have been made professors and appointed vice presidents, who are really ashamed -- he says: "The more people read, the more they tease me, the more you make professors and make vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0481par0548	That's freedom of thought.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0476par0549	The more ignorant people are, the more comfortable the community will be, the more confident I am of their imagination, says the Vice President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0481par0550	Freedom of thought.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0476par0551	There was also the president of my town's university. He brought in six of his family and put them in college -- he was now a laughing stock, and he's been here many times, and he's been brought up in Congress -- like he's started a family company. He didn't publish a single academic paper on his own behalf, but he became a professor, a chancellor. We don't know how. It wasn't enough, and they rewarded it, and brought it to the Board of Control.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0482par0552	I think what you're doing is, don't come near the prayer...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0476par0553	I mean, we don't really know whether to take it seriously or laugh or cry.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0482par0554	I think you tweezed the sentences, so don't go near the prayer. It's in the account.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0476par0555	Well, Mr. Group Vice President, this lady talks every time I go out. Yeah, bring him in here, put him in here, let him talk, let him relax, I swear, that's not how it works.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0482par0557	As long as you don't tell the truth, that's how we do it.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0476par0558	Look, this is a picture of Turkey. We say that people who have worked so hard, so cheaply, people who have worked at the academy for 30 years, don't go to prison for expressing their opinions. You take them out, you criticize their ideas, you criticize them, you make a statement, but it's better to take a man who's worked for thirty years and put him in jail and let the people stay ignorant. If you make him vice president, you're really not going to succeed, I'll tell you that. Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0483par0561	You don't have to bless the Academy so much.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0484par0562	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the addition of the fourth joke to Article 14 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data Number 117, which is being discussed. Baki Simsek (Mersin) and his friends In any case, the right to sue the judicial authorities is reserved. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0485par0569	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0484par0570	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0486par0571	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0484par0572	It's Mersin MP Baki Simsek who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0487par0575	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the motion issued under Article 14 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data Number 117. I hereby salute the High Council. Valuable MPs include personal data, health and biometric data of any race, ethnicity, political thinking, religion, religion, religion and other beliefs, union membership, health and biometrics that allow people to be determined by real and legal individuals. I regret to inform you that Turkey has become a country where personal data has been shared without permission, where private life has been violated by illegal listening and monitoring, and some 1 million people's phones have been illegally tapped. With promises and concessions given under the so-called process of dissolution, only 8 have been allowed from the 290 demand for the operation; two police and one of our soldiers were killed in Haqbari Yüksekova, where the explosive was planted during the passing of the military vehicle, when the necessary measures were not taken at our borders, when the municipalities used all the means and bombs were placed under the roads and were subjected to them. Again earlier this morning, one of our police and one of our soldiers were killed in the separatist organization's treacherous attack in Mardin's southeastern districts of Nusaybin and Mazıdağı. May God have mercy on our martyrs, and my condolences on their grieving families. It is unacceptable for separatist organisations and their supporters, who are continuing their bloody actions without calling Turkey a military-vil, to set up a tent in the heart of Europe to legitimize the PKK. We appreciate the Prime Minister condemning the opening of the PKK tent in Brussels, but we also want to ask you: Where were you when you were declared autonomy under the name DTK? Where were you when terrorists were greeted at the border crossing like heroes? Where were you when the PKK stands opened at the universities? Where were you when the government paid for the terrorists who moved to Kobani? While condemning those who allowed the PKK tent in Brussels, where were you when the letter of Ocalan was being read, while a rally was being held under the posters of Ocalan, not in the heart of Diyarbakır, not in the past, 21 March 2016? Where were you when the separatists were rallying under these posters, these flags, these rags, while hanging the ocalan posters in my constituency, on March 21, 2016? Mr. Secretary, are you going to start a judicial procedure on these? Are you going to start a criminal operation on these rags? Will you do a procedure for interceptors, Molotov launchers? You're condemning the PKK tent 3,000 kilometers away, but unfortunately, you're turning a blind eye to these events in Turkey. We expect government officials to be involved in these events. Dear MPs, in my last part, I'd like to present to Mr. Minister a few problems with my constituency, Mersin. The apricot manufacturers have suffered major damage, especially because of the cold, which is the motherland of his apricot. Uninsured apricot manufacturers are victims. I'd like them to delay their debt to Agriculture Bank... And then there's the Cotton Dam construction. Construction here has stopped for about five months, and nearly 100 workers have been unable to receive their salary for five months. The workers are acting. They're waiting for that dam site in the cold. Unfortunately, the contractor got all his dues, and he's in no condition to pay the workers. Construction's unfinished. The victims of these... and, also, the SGK building in Tarsus, although it has been completed for nearly two years, have not been opened because of its minor shortcomings. I expect your support in this matter. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0488par0583	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. And I'm going to read the final motion of the day: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 14 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data Number 117, which is currently being discussed in the following way. MADDE 14- (1) If the application is rejected, the answer is not found or answered during the period of the application, the person may file a complaint with the Board within 30 workdays from the time the data manager has learned the answer, and, of course, from the date of the application, 60 workdays. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0489par0590	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0488par0591	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0490par0592	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0488par0593	Eskişehir MP Cemal Okan Yüksel demanding a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Ascendant.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0491par0596	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have passed a half, we've reached the 14th Amendment. In fact, if our motions were accepted, if we could come to an agreement, we would pass that law in three hours. Indeed, as we say, you will pass this law as you have made it, and we will appeal to the Constitutional Court. I don't know what the outcome is, but even if the Constitutional Court doesn't call it off, when the new regulatory of the European Union kicks in, we're going to start talking about this law again. However, I would like to point out that the European Union, both in its 1995 and 2015 regulations, has set four basic principles regarding personal data, and in all the countries of the European Union that have agreed to it, they have been treated accordingly. What's all this? 1) The relevant board must be elected democratically. It's like this all over the country. How about us? Three of them, Mr. President, are being appointed by the Council of Ministers. Is there three conditions? No. 2) There must be another board to oversee this board. In all European countries, this board, other institutions, such as ombudsmans, or -- us -- is being audited by the Control Agency. Do we have this? I don't have that either. 3) It says that all personal data must be provided legally. Are we? This one's gone, too. And finally, the personal data on basic rights and freedoms must be heavily protected, he says. Do we have one? I don't have that either. Now, we say that this law is necessary, but this law is not necessary. Look, before you accept this law, the Turkish Penal Code has article 135, which brings a very clear ban, it says: "What does it say about the political, philosophical or religious views of individuals, their racial origins, their moral inclinations, their sexual life, their health, and their union connections, which record information as personal data from one year to three years in prison?" He's making these definitions, and they're special personal data, he says. Okay, good. These things cannot be processed without open consent. Okay, that's good too, but at the end, it says that if the Kurul -- which board is the Council of Ministers and the board of officers appointed by the President -- takes sufficient measures -- which are sufficient measures, no definitions -- they will be processed. So you're bypassing Article 135 of the Penal Code. Today for me, tomorrow for you. Tomorrow, when you fall from power, do you think about what happens when someone uses this law to create a situation against you? No, you're not. Now, actually, it's not fair to expect that. We just called a closed session. Our citizens didn't see it, but -- I'm sorry, I don't mean to offend you, Mr. Group Vice President -- your deputies backed up our proposal without knowing what they were taking on.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0492par0605	He saw it, he saw it, he broadcast it live, Mahmoud Tanal.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0491par0606	Thanks to them...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0493par0607	Why don't you tell the congressman who posted the closed session?
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0491par0608	Come on, sir, don't.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0494par0609	No, no...
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0495par0610	No, that vote was for stenographers, not your recommendation.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0491par0611	In fact, Mr. President had to repeat that vote.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0495par0612	Read the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0491par0613	Now, are you going to vote with that logic? So can you say that you're going to raise your hand by going through your mind filter and considering our objections? I mean, it's not the way life works. Look, we're talking here, we're not having a political conversation, we're trying to explain technically, but I mean, there's no word from you, and I don't expect it to come out. My compliments to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit08spe0496par0617	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a minute off from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-22sit09spe0496par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 59th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 117 from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Thus, in accordance with the decision taken, it is Wednesday (March 23rd 2016) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions. I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish you a good night.
