tbmm-2016-12-09sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Congressmans, I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of the MPs, Mr. Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya, has reached our presidency on 8/12/2016 concerning the resignation of Mr. Mehmet Günal of the Plan and Budget Commission. It has been presented to your knowledge. Members of parliament, now according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll be doing round four interviews today. The fourth round includes the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Development Ministry, Turkey's Statistical Institution, the Chairman of the GAP Regional Development Administration, the Chairman of the Eastern Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration, the Chairman of the Council's Office, the Chairman of the Eastern Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration, Justice Ministry, Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Institutions of Tutukevs, Turkey's Justice Academy and Prosecutors' High Council budget and final accounts. 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Statistical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account The President's Office of the Gate Area 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) BUILDING BUILDINGS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2015 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Academy of Justice 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2015 The Commission and the Government are here. Members of parliament, as it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. In the fourth round, I read the names of the members of the group and its individuals: On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group: Mr. Hishyar Özsoy, Mr. Altan Tan, Mr. Mizgin Irgat, Mr. Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan, Mr. Aycan İrmez, Mr. Ayşe Acar Başaran, Mr. Meral Danış Beştaş. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Mr Ekmeleddin Mehmet Ihsanoğlu, Mr Erhan Usta, Mr Mustafa Kalaycı, Mr Celal Adan, Mr Mehmet Parsak. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group: Mr. Özturk Yılmaz, Mr. Selin Sayek Böke, Mr. Akif Ekici, Mr. Ali Akyıldı, Mr. Okan Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Uğur Bayaktutan, Mr. Necati Yılmaz, Mr. Ali Haydar Hakverdi, Mr. Mehmet Gökdağ, Mr. İlhan Cihaner. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group: Mr. Sabri Özturk, Mr. Azmi Ekci, Mr. Ahmet Demircan, Mr. Zehra Taşkesenlioğlu, Mr. Mustafa Şükrü Nazlı, Mr. İbrahim Halil Yıldız, Mr. Mehmet Ali Cevheri, Mr. Tahir Özturk, Mr. Mehmet Babaoğlu, Mr. Cemal Özturk, Mr. Mr. Mültez, Mr. Hülya Nergis, Mr. Cahit Özkan, Mr. Ceyda Seferinoğlu, Mr. Ceyda Çeyda Çalmezır, Mr. In the name of the individuals: Lehte, Mr. Fevzi Shandi; against him, Mr. Dilek Ocalan. Now I'm going to start the promise process in order. The first speaker on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group is Mr. Hishyar Ozsoy. Here you go, Mr. Ozsoy. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0002par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. On behalf of my group, I have made a commitment to discuss the State Department's budget. Before I begin my speech, of course, I bow before my co-chairs here with their photos and my very dear paralegal friends. Of course, the budget has many dimensions that need to be evaluated technically and politically. So I'm going to go over the technical part very briefly today, and I'm going to go over a couple of examples. Of course, before these technical and political assessments, I'd like to clarify one thing. We hear a number of arguments from fellow speakers who speak on this parliamentary platform: Here are Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) in a betrayal of foreign relations, constantly betraying Turkey, betraying MPs who are abroad. Like really -- I'm sorry -- they present some ridiculous arguments. This has nothing to do with reality: That's true, we, the HDP, are out there criticising the policies of the AKP (AKP) and the State of the Republic of Turkey, and we will be critical of all the things we see wrong to the end. The HDP, however, has enough insight to make the distinction: of course, we do not associate Turkey with the AKP government. Turkey, we say this country is bigger than the AK PARTY government. Thus, by separating the government of Turkey and the Republic of Turkey, we form our own foreign policy statement. To give an example, the HDP's position on implementing sanctions for Turkey is this: We do not find it right to impose total sanctions on Turkey. However, we think that some government institutions should be sanctioned in Turkey. I'll give you an example: there are pre-accession contributions to the Ministry of Justice from the European Union funds, you know, there are funds. These are funds for the transparency, democratic, fair arrangement of judicial institutions in Turkey and for harmonisation of the European Union with legal institutions. But these funds are not being used in accordance with their purpose, there is no justice system left. So, for example, in our talks with the European Union, we say that these pre-accession funds, given to the Ministry of Justice, should be frozen because they are not being used in accordance with their purposes, when the Justice Department meets the set criteria of the European Union, then we say that these shares should be given back to them. I just gave an example to clarify a situation. Technically, when we look at the budget, there are actually Court reports that show a lot of things. I want to go through this with one example -- because I want to do a budget discussion in a more general, more political framework -- according to the Court reports, every year, trillions of dollars of old money are given to employees, employees of the State Department, who have no jobs, who have no jobs, who don't have any jobs. This was present in the Court reports in 2013, 2014, 2015. So it seems the public's money is given to some employees as vacations or economic gains. These guys are going out, they're taking vacations, they're taking people's money, and they're buying for the road, they're charging for it. People's money, at the end of the day, we're talking tax money. So it's not government money. The government doesn't have money, it's ridiculous; it's people's money, and the government has to spend its money under a set of rules. In 2015, with $2 billion in old money, 2 quadrillion; in 2016, 600 million in additional budgets, 2 billion, 687 million. In 2017, another 300 trillion were added to the budget. Now, we say it's not enough. So this is 3 quadrillion with the old money, 3 billion with the new money, really, look, our Minister here, we say they're not enough for themselves. 3 billion is a very low price. Maybe 30 billion, 30 billion, with old money, 30 quadrillion, can provide a partial benefit to improve Turkey's shaken image, prestige outside. Why are we saying this, dear friends? When you give the budget to the Foreign Ministry, you should also ask: What is Turkey's foreign policy really? Does he have a strategy? Yes, she doesn't take me very seriously, ma'am, but...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0003par0070	I'll take it, please.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0002par0071	For the moment, Turkey has a problem: You know, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu has left, and the bill for all foreign policy which has been implemented for four or five years has been paid to Mr. Davutoglu. Now everyone, you see, Mr. Davutoglu was a doctor, strict, ideological. So, with Banili Bey, we are more pragmatist, more instrumentally, more realisticly organizing our foreign policy. There is a scapegoat, Mr. Davutoglu has gone. But once Mr. Buli arrives, yes, we also see a number of tactical alliances developing. In particular, it had begun before it itself, but relations with Israel, which had been formed in its time, and relations with Russia, we can observe that there were some softenings in these two issues, some alliances were formed. But here we see a foreign policy in a specific, planned concept that's not being implemented, it's more of an ideological point that's being thrown at a pragmatic point, and it's trying to form an alliance in order to break the isolation of the region and outside. Our basic criticism is that if you have the wrong strategy, you can't come to conclusions with a number of tactics. And I'll give you those wrong strategies in detail in a minute. In the current case, in the region and outside of Europe, their relationship with the European Union has been severely isolated, has been in crisis state, and I'm referring to the debates of the lozans, which have never been able to direct regional developments, but have been influenced by long-term development, which are full of internal contradictions, which are full of conflict with almost everyone, where it may be possible to take Israel and Russia into partial parentheses, and beyond that, it's weird, with some neoosmanic, neo-humanist arguments -- we're dealing with a major regional, global turbulence, left-to-left-hand-hand-hand-hand-to-hand-hand-hand-to-hand-hand-to-hand, foreign-hand-hand-handling machine. Guys, before I go into more detail, let me tell you something, this is the kind of revoking that new Ottomanism has been doing lately, especially recently. Yeah, well, that could have been something before, you know, it was conceptualized as a strategic depth, you know, and we could go into the Middle Eastern geography, where Turkey's historical heritage is more common, we could use our relationships, we could increase our trade, we could increase our cultural relations. There is a foreign policy in such a framework. But, friends, if you're going to become new Ottomans, you should at least do it in a consistent manner. Here's the thing: if you're doing new Ottomanism, you can't do it with some racist, nationalist team. Ottomanism is a different idea, it doesn't work on people. Through Ottomanism, and among it, the Kurds... you know that the situation of the Kurds is the most important among the Ottomans. If you are going to become Ottoman, we should not be associated with Kurds as you are now associated with them in Syria and Turkey, but we need to establish more friendly, more constructive relations with the Kurds, both spatially and historically. I mean, even this new Ottomanism, you're doing it with a very strict, nationalistic set of ideas that are both anachronic and not very realistic. Dear friends, Mr. President, he's already directing foreign policy. It's certainly not about your person, but obviously all these foreign relations policies, of course, are designed by the Ministry's opinion, but as far as we can see, they're being designed elsewhere. Now, you know, Mr. President has a saying that's very popular these days, almost every time he talks -- it happens with people, it happens with others -- we don't look at what Hans and George say. He puts it in front of people as domestic and national foreign policy. Dear friends, this kind of rhetoric may function as a bit of a gas of society, a little bit of gas of society, but Mr. Secretary knows very well that it has nothing to do with reality. You will see what Hans said, and George said. You have to look at it like you did in the previous decades. This is not a matter of choice, Turkey's politics, its economy, is integrated significantly, especially with globalisation. Half of Turkey's exports go to Europe. Direct foreign capital investment from Europe to Turkey constitutes 70-75 per cent of investments in Turkey. We're talking about a political, cultural and economic structure that is seriously integrated with Hans, and Georges, so we don't do foreign policy by shouting, shouting, saying, "Hansa, George, we don't give bonuses." Why? Because when Hans and George get angry, look, dollars and euros go up, you see. Who pays the bill for this, who pays the bill for this? So, for example, the builder who has to buy the iron in dollars, for example, the tourism industry, for example, the agricultural sector, the industry that manufactures for exports, everyone, in some way, has to pay the bill for the problems that Mr. President has had to face with Hans, and George. He's not going with all that fathering and yelling and yelling. So, we're not saying, of course, that we should underline that we should go and give in to the Hans, to the Georges... In their terms, it's not very true, it's actually a concept of very alien hostility, and we don't find it very accurate. Well, of course you're going to sit with them because Hans, George... Hans is usually a German, George is a British, American name. So, you go and do it with Igor, with Moshe, with Russia, with Israel, so what's the sin of Hans and George? So, ten years, after 2002, they gave the AKP the most support, but so what? In ten to fifteen years, the loan they were given was consumed. In the current case, with the recent European Parliament's decision, the number of Westerners who have somehow absorbed Turkey, who want Turkey, has fallen below almost 10 per cent, 5 per cent. This is an expression of bankruptcy in relations with the West. Dear friends, you know, the European Parliament has made a decision to temporarily freeze negotiations with Turkey. We've said it before on this stand. The government, of course, argues that this is a symbolic decision, not binding, but we also know that this is a suggestion. This issue will be raised at a meeting of leaders in the 15th and 16th part of the December. The fact that relations between Turkey and the EU are frozen because of the refugee crisis, especially because of some economic concerns that we can predict, doesn't seem very realistic, so no one is expecting that very much. Plus, there's the Cyprus thing. If EU relations with Turkey freeze, perhaps, we will face a serious crisis in solving the Cyprus issue, which the government is partially trying to take steps to. The issue here is not the formal suspension of relations with the European Union, friends, but the negative effects of those relations with Europe, Western and Turkey on social, political, economic, stability, and we feel them up to our bones. A report came in today that the European Judiciary Councils Network has removed the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, who are members of it, or rather observer status, as observers. It's a sign, it's just a sign. Reason: Judiciary institutions are not independent in Turkey. Ya, the countries that normally belong to the European Union, the judge, the prosecutor, the high boards, and those who are in the accession process, those who are in the process, and those who are in the accession process, are there with observer status. We've eaten this, so the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has now lost that observer status. Previously -- you know -- military embargos have arrived, we see military embargos coming from Austria, again from some companies from Germany. Other than that, even though it has not been mentioned, we see that some economic sanctions against Turkey have already worked, as well as practical effects that have been working for several months. Now, let me try to wrap this up, I've got four minutes left. Now, we have a suggestion, a little bit of courtesy, but a little bit of truth, we say, dear friends: outside, especially in Europe, in the West, the main cause of the crisis in foreign policy is the internal problems, especially in which Minister of Interior, Mr. Süleyman Nobleman and Minister of Justice, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, wrong practices. Now, the Home Office and the Department of Justice have made a mess, laid off thousands, hundreds of thousands of people. He put our co-chairs and deputies in jail, put our mayors in jail. Countless journalists, academics inside, many who represent the judicial institution are inside, currently in prison. The 75-year-old Ahmet Turk -- he's got a battery in his heart -- they took him away and threw him in jail. Members of the group, friends of the AK PARTI, and they're judging İdris Bey for life, and you worked with him here. This is all happening. So, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior is destroying Turkey's image outside, and then our Foreign Minister, Mr. Mevlüt Beye, they say: "Ya, Mevlüt Bey, go outside and collect our image." Now, what should Mr. Mevlüt do? It's working. We can see it. I'm in that area, I'm in charge of foreign affairs; Mr. Mevlüt is working day and night, but they don't give a damn about the government's arguments outside, and no one believes them. Look, during these visits through the parliaments, during their visit to explain the coup, all the friends in their positions were like this -- you went and saw it, didn't you, Mr. Ozturk? - They say: "Ya, we tell the world, no one believes us." Give them a reason to believe you. You say we're fighting a coup, you arrest Ahmet Turk. You're saying we're fighting a coup, and you're firing the mother of Uður Kaymaz, who was killed by a 13-year-old state bullet by a decree of law. You're saying we're fighting a coup, we're fighting terrorism, you're shutting down Zarok TV, a television channel that translates and publishes some Kurdish cartoons. You're saying we're fighting a coup... and there's no limit to what you're doing, which one should I say? You put the mayors in jail, you put trustees in their place, and then there were moats, you say. Mr. Secretary, is there a ditch in Dersim? Was there a ditch in the pain? There was a ditch in Erzurum? So, we're fighting terrorism, coup. You've created a vast area of rhetoric, and you're taking the situation after the coup attempt as an opportunity to silence all the opposition voices in Turkey. Which one of them should Mr. Mevlüt clean out? I mean, it's tough, I really think so. I mean, who's he gonna go tell? For example, here every day the President shouts out his sentence. We were at a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where Mevlüt Bey was trying to explain how the death penalty was not right, at least as his personal opinion.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0004par0083	Mr. Mevlüt is against execution.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0002par0084	Guys, that's not how foreign policy works. You don't do foreign policy by shouting and calling. We want to say: If you want to overcome this situation in foreign policy, if you want to make the economy a little more stable, it's very easy: our MPs, our co-chairs, our mayors, academics, civil society representatives, let alone the rule of law, put an end to the practices that I now see in government; there's no need to spend 3-5 quadrillion outside; there's no need for you to spend 3 or 5 quadrillion of them out there, in a very comfortable way, you'll be very easy to collect out there, dear friends. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0005par0087	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, the second speaker is Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan. Mr. Tan, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0006par0092	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I'm here to present you once again, every year, in terms of the GAP. Believe me, I'm not tired of saying the same thing, but why am I? I'm seriously sick and tired of not getting a response. Dear friends, in every budget meeting, I've made an entrance to this GAP. I've put in front of you the numbers the state has explained in its own reports. When the GAP is finished, the region's good fortune will be defeated, with 3,800,000 people, with the Suruç Project added, there will be jobs for 4 million people, and when an average family is multiplied by a population coefficient, it will address a population of about 20 million people. The population of the region is now in total 8.5 million cities, including Gaziantep. Now, I turn to the ministers and ask them, without further ado, why doesn't this GAP end if you love your God? I'm talking about market style, and why doesn't this end in what you call a hundred and eighty? In two and a half years, the third bridge ends, Osman Gazi Bridge ends, Marmaray ends, why isn't it over?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0007par0096	That place doesn't pay.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0006par0097	If this government doesn't have money, how do these places get this money? But why isn't this project going to increase the population of 8.5 million people to 20 million people and maybe change the economy of the entire Middle East, its social structure, its good fortune? Some friends are polemic, sir, but the PKK won't let the Silvan Dam go, so we can do it. Here are the vehicles being burned, there are bombings. There are the same things that are said about the Bingol road. Here are the vehicles being burned, the bombings, the people being kidnapped. Yes, it is. Now, the second question is, if you love your God, why is there nothing wrong with the thermal power plants in Cleopatra, Şırnak? Why is it that no one intervenes in the works of Limak Construction in Pervari? Last week in Shirvan, when you look, when you look, when you see 16 of our brothers' lives in Shirvan, why is it that no one gets involved in the mountains where you're afraid of their images on TV? And again, at the height of the event, how do you end a huge dam between Botan and Turabdin in Kerboran, in Dargateit, and the main body of the Ilisu Dam, for electrical purposes? Now, friends, of course, that's a complicated question. And I know what I'm saying, word by word, word by word. Somebody come in here and explain this to me. If there's no money, how is this money available to all the other huge investments, and why has such a project been so difficult for 40 years to address 20 million populations? The government revised its goals four times, five times, and after these revisions, it targeted the last 2014. We've come to 2017, and at this rate it's going to continue for at least five years or six years. The problem with security -- that's the question, that's the question I was asking -- is what's going on? Why does he intervene in what projects, which hand interferes, which one doesn't? Things are going smoothly at the electric dam, but there's still work at the Silvan Dam for irrigation purposes. What's going on? Dear friends, I'm afraid we can't find a proper answer to these questions, but we've said for years that a deep hand doesn't want the development of the region to move forward. This deep hand is also in Ankara, so we're not talking about the hands in Tehran, Damascus, Moscow, Washington, Berlin, London; we're concerned about the hands in Ankara, and, again, they want to continue the migration to the west. Instead, they are not asked to emigrate, they are not asked to employ, they are asked to continue assimilating. If that's not the case, then someone has to say, "No, none of this has anything to do with the truth." That's the real picture. Let's find out, so let's find out what's going on. Although there is still so much development and progress, they all give minus migration, minus migration. What's a negative migration? There's one and there's one, there's one, there's one, there's another, there's too many, there's too many, there's too many, there's too many, there's too many, there's too many, The population of the province of Urbana will increase by 45,000 per year; 1 million 892 thousand, 31/12/2015; 2016 figures will be determined in 15 or 20 days; they will be announced in a month. It's the same way, but when you look at the migratory table, there's still a negative migration. Diyarbakır is 1 million, 645,000, population has increased by 19,000, but negative migration is 20,000, so it's not just an increase from birth, it's not a real, real increase; it's a real increase from Urbana. Dear friends, another problem is that I had a meeting with Mr. Cevdet when there was an incident in Sur. Here, we will build so many houses here, so many dwellings here. And right now in Diyarbakir -- let me talk to you on the Diyarbakır scale, there is a little time left -- the construction of 3,700 dwellings continues; it will be finished in the earliest seven or eight months; it will be finished at the earliest; of course, this term, it will be applied, it won't be slept, it will be sarker. I made the minister an offer: "How much do you cost?" I'm a civil engineer, and I'm a contractor, and I have construction sites right now, so I'm willing to discuss those numbers with whoever claims to be, with all these numbers. How much is it going to cost? So, 120 square meters, the plot of this, the social utensils, the schools, it's not just the cost of the building, it's not just the cost of the square meter, it's 120-130 billion, it's 140 billion, it's 120 square meters, I'm talking about 130 square meters. So, what do you want to do? I said, yes. You want to contribute to the economy? Yes. Take 2,000 apartments at once and all these better apartments for 140 billion, 150 billion, let's travel together. I'm talking about sites built on 1,25, 1.40 precedents, parking lots, playgrounds. I want 300 trillion, 400 trillion dollars in the economy of Diyarbakir in an instant. So what happens in the housing? He's coming, the contractor, he's taking the whole team from the outside to the tunnel blocks, to his own technical, professional team, and he's taking the money. I don't know where he's taking it. Let this one enter the land; ready, ready, the very next day, in fifteen days, let this citizen enter your house. Dear friends, I'm afraid none of this has been taken into account, and right now the region is in a state of economic collapse -- Turkey's, other, of course, west -- as well. After a thousand requests, the banks just want to go to a credit postponement. A bank manager, I can give you a name if necessary, and I want to do a polemic, the county manager of a financial institution says: I just learned the loyalty rights, here, this year. I just learned it 15 days ago. He doesn't even exercise his loyalty until he gets to the point. General managers, vice presidents don't make appointments. And these are for your information. I'm waiting for an answer about the GAP. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0008par0106	Thank you, Mr. Tan. Now, the third speaker is Ankara MP Sırrıyya Önder. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Commander, please.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0009par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to start by welcoming you and your dear friends. Now, there's only one reason for these operations in which our friends are being held hostage by this political capture operation, both our party and our civilian voters are being detained, and I'd like to start there. The HDP -- in its own words -- helps the terrorist organization. This is the most outrageous one; the one who talks a little bit more in the middle: it doesn't distance itself. Now, when something is repeated too often, it starts ringing in the ears as if it were real. I think it's necessary to say some more as a friend of yours who's been running this operation for three years, running this process, with the government, with the government, with the Imralı, with the Kandil, with whom you're running it, and it's this: the issue of terrorism or terrorism -- let me say it again -- we're dealing with a multidimensional issue -- and that's not being fought over by doing so many times. We're talking about a multi-dimensional issue with social, cultural, economic, historical dimensions, as the government's most competent mouths have repeatedly expressed to the President, the Prime Minister, and his concerned ministers, until they reach their party spokesman. This state had a Oslo process first. What was so special about him? No one remembers him. His specialty was to keep civil politics out of the process, my friends. The state and government held a direct discussion with the PKK's executives and began long before it was reflected in public opinion, and continued until long after it was reflected in public opinion. For obvious reasons, this meeting came to pass -- I don't want to use this time -- and then a trend arose: "If civilian politics is not in effect, we are destined to experience the problems we experienced during the Oslo process. We have been asked to take initiative, and civil policy representatives have been forced to take initiative. Peace doesn't come with a curse on terror or a curse every day, it has to be initiative and risk. Mr. Bozdağ is gone. What the whole Assembly needs to know is that when we first visited Mr. Ocalan, when the process began, we were told that it begins with steps of trust, steps of trust, and gestures all over the world. Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has public officials and soldiers as hostages. This political delegation -- it exists now and its families are looking for us every day -- let them go. In return, the government and government promised: "We will release all the sick prisoners who are legally entitled to release here very important." The question may arise: Who holds them if they have won law? There's always 50,000 barrier measures when there's a right to the law in this country, that's why. The doctor's report, the coroner's report, etc. has completed the entire process, two hands, two legs, a prisoner -- let me give you an example -- who can't survive alone in prison; the last thing they've put in is an opinion from the arm; does it affect public safety or not? This right... over 60 patients who completed this procedure were not always left with reports from this armband, but some were prevented by forensics. Let me put it this way: We freed those soldiers and the civil servants on the thirteenth day -- including a king-in-law. The state and the government did not do so in one prisoner. The reasons were... we carried some of this with Sadullah Bey, some with Mr. Bozdağ. The reason was that the chief of forensic medicine, the parishioner, we'll take him; we'll take him, we'll take him, and that'll be settled. The Chief Medical Examiner is being dismissed, replaced by a new one, just like the government official said: "The tired ones are gone, the rested ones are coming. The congregationers are coming. They took him, too. After that, the head of the third apartment -- or the head of which office -- we stopped this job, and we told the new one, and he said, "He's going to fire her." They said, "There's only two more; maybe there's one or two more; so let's not walk over a couple of people -- just over 100, just two prisoners who have won this right to say goodbye to their families as living bodies, almost a day before their deaths. HDP has met with PKK executives 117 times, including the information, proposal and demand of the state, the government and all relevant institutions for peace. We lived in this country for three years, confident in our children's lives. Second chewing gum, ditch, barricade, et cetera. I'll tell you something about him. During the budget talk, many of these things became public, but no one was too lazy to ask what was the truth of these things. So it's not the first time I've revealed a fact. The first ditch, my friends, was dug up in lice, and two expert sergeants were taken hostage by the people there. Do you know why? Some of you remember the lice earthquake. In the Ice earthquake, this state told the villagers there that I would build you earthquake houses and disaster homes. It was an earthquake in the 1970s. Those disaster houses are still not finished, they are still not abandoned, but as soon as the peace process began, there began to be a six-million-billion-billion-billion-budget fort. In the 1990s, the district MPs knew that in the social memory of the people of the lice, the door to the kabrista was,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. You came in alive, you pulled out dead, there was no exception. The people rebelled against this: either our earthquake dwellings -- our Altan MP just mentioned -- there's a lot of current investments there, and if we're going to make peace, you're making us a goalie while we're dealing with the welfare of the people of the region. I don't have much time left. Let me put it this way: it's become impossible. The government asked Mr. Ocalan for help, and he said: "Pick this up. " Mr. Ocalan told us. With the co-ordinating of the two ministers from the government, we went to three, and we met with the people of the region -- one of whom was a member of the delegation, one of whom was Mr. Vice President, and one of whom was now a prisoner -- and we delivered them to their families, and two of them had an engagement a week later -- one of them was from Kilisli, one was from Nurdakulı. What did civil politics do? The answer to this question is hidden in thousands of cases that you know and do not know. We have been promised that such actions and activities will not be conducted here, and there will be no objections to the closure of the ditch, provided the construction of the castle is stopped. That night, the government sent a truck there, all the materials for that construction were loaded into that truck... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The next day, the public closed the trenches he had built, and the soldiers gave them to us, and we didn't have any incidents there until they started building a castle. I'm sorry, Mr. President. My last word: out of here, the co-Chairs, their esteemed deputies and elected mayors, the members of parliament were taken captive, while the governments who had done so were cursed hundreds of times before, sir, they did not distance themselves from terrorism with this or supported it with this. The promise was a lie.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0010par0123	Mr. Commander, I'll add one minute of Mr. Irgat to you; please complete. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0009par0125	Thank you. The second big lie is that Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, is in prison because they have doubts about running away, because they gave this political party their 40 percent nightmare. That's reason number one.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0011par0127	No way!
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0009par0128	Of course, we got a 40 percent, we can get another 40 percent, you're losing sleep over the nightmare. Second, not because of suspicion of escape, but because of their insistence to live in this land, their will to turn this land into a rose country. I end up with all of our deputies, especially our co-chairs, promising that we will keep them from this sanctioned unlawfulness, that we will return their freedom, that we will raise our fight on democratic politics as civil politics in this country in every aspect of life. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0012par0133	Thank you, Mr. Commander. The fourth speaker is Bitlis MP Mizgin Irgat. Mr. Irgat, I've given a moment of your time to Mr. Commander. Your time is nine minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0013par0138	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute all the imprisoned friends and viewers who follow us in the dungeons. Yes, as we discuss the Justice Department budget, we will address you from a council without the Ministry. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I was in Adana yesterday. We have seen the trial of Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, our co-Chair, the sole co-chair of this House and Turkey. I'd like to begin with his greetings in one sentence and his words that Turkey must be saved from this disgrace as soon as possible. Tomorrow is December 10th, which is Human Rights Week. But unfortunately, if we sum up from last year's budget talks in a year's time, more than the budget, more than the Justice Department, and in this country, the point of human rights, rights and law, and justice, I don't think it's going to come to the budget. Yes, I'm speaking to you as a member of a group with co-Chairs and fellow lawmakers arrested, over 50 elected, arrested by the mayor. Yes, there's only one reason why our MPs, our co-chairs, and our constituents are in prisons today. On June 7th, we faced the practice of a hope for this country, a light, perhaps a light in the name of those wishing for freedom and peace, the desire to open a road again in the eyes of the people, to close it down, and we experienced the level of unlawfulness that would lead to the arrest of our last deputies, to the arrest of our mayors. I've got pictures. I'd like to ask you the difference between those who had to take this picture in 1994 and those who had to take it in 2009 and those who had to take it in 2016. There's not a single shred of difference between them. You've called them the shopkeepers, and now you've locked them up. What do you say to that? I assure you, the day after tomorrow, another name will throw them out of your midst under the name of the president's system... in the dictatorship you're headed towards, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, what happens between us will not be at this time, I'm afraid. From here, while Turkey is discussing the justice system, I'd like to say one thing. By doing this, by arresting our MPs, our elected officers, I think there's only one thing that's been done. The only thing that happens in the end is the myth of themselves. Maybe they're all heroes, legends, revolutionaries, peace seekers, in the hearts of our people, after being unjustly arrested from now on. So we don't end up either under arrest or in detention or in denial. Yes, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we can actually see in the summary of all talks by all of our representatives: proposals to get out of Turkey's chaos, from its unlawfulness, peace calls, and the dissolution of the bleeding Kurdish issue, talks about the real representation of all the people, women, young people, and all the representatives of this country. Yes, because of their conversation, our deputies are in prison right now. As we look at the point where Turkey has arrived today, we see that they are looking for a constitutional study, a new constitution. They're trying to build a new system with compromises behind the doors, hidden from the public, from the parties, from the MPs. I mean, the name of this system is not the presidency, it's not the presidency, it's not the monarchy, it's the parliamentary system. According to his instructions from the palace, they are trying to build a Turkish-style dictatorial regime. But when we look at the constitutional construction technique, when we look at all the world examples, it can't be that kind of system. Whatever system you want to run for president, or if you want to build a new dictatorship, let's discuss it openly. But it can't be done in secret by studying the constitution, without having to discuss it, without taking the opinion of the leaders, the society, the lawyers. So, you did this, how are you going to discuss it? There are 10 members missing from this House. When we go to the locals, only over 50 of our mayors are not at work right now. Political avid, appointed trustees can't pull this off. When we looked at Norschin City, I read it yesterday, really, not at the city hall, but at the governor's office, our beloved new president, who had a anthem meeting. I'd like to ask you, if you wanted to do so much politics, why don't you come and run? Instead of being appointed overnight, instead of putting the people's efforts and the chosen ones of our party in prison, instead of taking them hostage, if you wanted to do it, you'd run a political race like a politician, as if you were chosen, and whoever won would go to the city hall and run it with the flow of his forehead. But you didn't. In one night, even on the weekend, you replaced our municipalities, your appointed mayors, your officers, an officer who had no control over the problems of those people, no effort, no labor, and put him in those buildings as the city's deputy. I assure you, our people will not forget all this illegality. I'd like to say once again that our representatives, not only in prisons, but in the name of our mayors, are political prisoners in the name of their ideas, and that all of our sick prisoners who can't survive there right now, must be liberated immediately. The Minister of Justice, who purposely and willingly did not send the HDP MPs to prison in fact committed a crime, immediately gave up his guilt on this matter... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm suggesting that we should allow ourselves to meet with the Regents. Neither the presidency nor the president, we don't eat this food. The public and I say we start working on a liberal new constitution that we're all arguing with in Congress, and all the prisoners...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0014par0152	You don't eat, we'll eat baklava with our people, don't worry. We'll eat it with our people.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0013par0153	No, you're not doing it with the public, you're doing your own regime.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0014par0154	You poison yourselves, we eat together, but every meal.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0013par0155	I salute everyone with love.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0015par0157	Thank you, Mr. Irgat. Now, the fifth speaker is Mr. Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0016par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. We're discussing the Justice Department budget in 2017. With the labor of our people, with the authority entrusted to us, I'd like to start by saying that the budget for the public's sake is not just an income-goer's table, it's a moral document and it's a promise, and the budget needs to be done in accordance with that morality. My respects to all of you. Because of the wrong policy, which has been in power for over a year and its use of powers and its essence, the stage is a complete crisis and inability to govern. The AKP government, which lost power alone on the night of June 7th, threatened the country with chaos, and has been in chaos since then, which is the way the AKP government itself prefers to do so. Therefore, your power has nothing left to defend in the name of democratic values. The budget bill we discussed is missing a whole lot. Those who vote for HDP are not included in this document, who send their MPs to Parliament, who support the HDP component DBP, who prefer the understanding of municipalism and its policy. From day one, you didn't go to the deposition, you stood up to the government. But you said, you did this. You're trying to create a memory with the words of the enemy. You tried to create a grudge against us, a target. But you know very well, you've run a planned, top-notch approved process and you're running it. HDP has uncovered, debated, debated the truth of Turkey. With all the colors of this great country, all the differences and pluralist structure, with its effective, transparent participation in the administration, it would be the right way to participate in it with its own unique identities, and so the Kurdish problem could be solved, the HDP said, in one word, peace. Here, those who found themselves in this discourse chose to send us to the House to speak my words. There is a crisis in this country as much as you interrupt and block HDP. Ten parliamentarians with full political opinions still immunity, you have no answer for the millions who have the will to take the leaders of parliament's third largest party hostage. So there's a huge lack of legislature, and as long as that's not incomplete, the model you prefer in management, your power, your understanding will always be controversial, it'll always be unacceptable, there'll always be tension, and there'll always be distrust of you. Dear MPs, there is an open management crisis in the country. There's no telling who's running the law and who's running the government. This government has become unable to cover up this fact. Because of this crisis, the economic crisis broke out. Again, Turkish lira is losing value against dollars because of this crisis. Dollars don't go up, Turkish lira loses value. The solution you've come up with is an artificial expression that serves a pure perception management, such as cashing underlying deposits, away from the basic arguments of economic science. However, the formula for coming out of a multi-dimensional and multi-layered crisis is obvious, and it's actually very simple. There's only one word and only one solution: peace, only peace. The state must be able to discuss peace with its own citizen, create its channels and its resources. Our fellow lawmakers who have been held captive since November 4th with political opinions should be removed from obstacles to the freedom of our mayors. Gasbedlen municipalities must be delivered to the public again, and what all the people of Turkey want to see is that these steps are actually taken in earnest. In the past, resolving negotiations gave birth to that hope. There was almost no death during the non-combat process. Every day since you put the solution process in the fridge, 20 or 30 young people in this country have lost their lives. However, there is a way to stop the killings. In his last message, Mr. Ocalan said that the solution is possible in six months, if it is solid. For example, the government did not hear this message, the government did not. We're going to take it out of here, and on the same day, the government gave a message to elected public municipalities that they were assigned simultaneous trustees. That's how the people and we understood the government's message. But there are millions of soldiers, police, guerrilla families who are first interested in this message. If there's even a chance or a chance of a solution like this, why can't the government at least prioritize it? In fact, all those who defended Turkish peoples, the outside world and democratic values were interested in Mr. Ocalan's message; only you were not interested. And in power, you take one sincere step towards peace, and let's see, together, whether social, political, economic tension is falling in the country or not. It's been a long time since your administration of prisons has been human-focused. You don't have a program on everyone that deals with common sense, protects human dignity, provides criminal justice. On the contrary, the prisons, which each administration declared its own republic, are now governed by torture practices the whole world has cursed. Congressmans, it is not lawful for our co-chairs to remain in isolation. No matter who it's applied to, isolation is a crime of humanity. Prisons are already capable of 183,000, while there are now 18,000 people in prison being held prisoner or convicted. It's torture itself that the efficiency rate is above capacity. This chart shows year-on-year hailing rates. In 2002, it reached this level in 2016. In fact, even this painting tells you what the arrest policy is - the AKP's success! Meanwhile, there are reports of suspicious deaths, suspicious suicides from prisons all the time. The Ministry of Justice has been unable to provide data on this issue until 2016, but we know that at least 367 prisoners lost their lives in 2016. Especially after the coup attempt, the prisons turned into torture houses, everyone knows that. We've come from a zero-tolerance policy of torture, where there are high-level bureaucrats who accept torture and confess. In addition, with the State of Emergency, they became a closed-door box, where no one could get healthy news. Free from transparency, torture, civil institutions aren't even allowed to conduct inspections. Every day the news of death increases. In fact, let alone allow civilian supervision, the person who spoke of it is either being arrested or taken into custody, and the associations are being shut down. In fact, you've closed the Department of Corrections Board of Corrections in the middle of the night with a decree of the law. You can't even tolerate the supervision of your own officers in your own direction. The prison visits the HDP MPs want to conduct as part of the legislative activity are blocked because of the Justice Minister's arbitrary application. Dear lawmakers, while all this is happening, the Minister of Justice insists that there is no torture in the prisons. We can think of a lot of ways, including naked searching, isolation, holding sick prisoners in cells, blocking communications, blocking their right to defend themselves, recording their lawyer's opinion, and more. What is this, not torture? Despite the government's official news agency serving torture footage, despite all the evidence, there is no torture. If he insists on it, despite the criminal complaints that have been waiting in prosecutors, and if he clearly says this, we think of only one possibility -- torture, consent, and the Minister of Justice of this country -- is encouraging torture, even opening the way. Turkey's prisons have become areas with 330 heavy, more than a thousand sick prisoners. Even in this very human and conscientious regard, the government does not do its part, and heavy patients are not even allowed to spend their last days with their families, perhaps even with their families. However, the government's approach to this issue is directly related to maintaining human dignity. These families shouldn't live every day worrying that coffins coming out of prisons will one day arrive at their own address. Ladies and gentlemen, while the world is discussing destituting detention as an execution regime, we are still discussing the detention of children. This should be painful for everyone, because in Pozanti, children's prisoners are being raped, while children are being tortured on camera in Sincan. This power cannot talk about justice or child rights. Instead of punishing children and young people, building a system of justice to protect them is essential. The arrest and punishment of children must be divided into sufficient resources for the establishment of alternative institutions to cover all provinces. For example, instead of building 64 new prisons this year, stop arresting everyone you don't like and save resources for the children. The government must recognize that hundreds of thousands of people in prisons are still citizens of this country and develop policies that allow those people to live up to the health and body that is worthy of human dignity. Besides, I'm saying it's an obligation born of international contracts where Turkey is on the side. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0017par0179	Thank you, Mr. Ertan. Mr. Tanal has a request for a statement according to 60. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0018par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, today on the municipal buses of the municipality of Malatya, the practice of men and women in public transportation has begun. We are in the press. This practice, if it's really serious, will lead to very bad results, women will be excluded at work, and there will be discrimination between men and girls in schools.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0019par0187	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0020par0188	Yeah, what's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0021par0189	Why send them separately? Why are you splitting it up?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0022par0190	In Parliament, perhaps women will be in separate places, men will be in separate places, and there will be no male drivers where women really are employers. This practice, this harem and salutation, will lead our country to an outdated practice. It's also a way to isolate...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0023par0192	Mr. Tanal, you've been misinformed. No such thing.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0022par0193	...instruction and discrimination.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0024par0194	There are more serious things, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0022par0195	While the Minister of Justice is here, this is a violation of the principle of equality according to Article 10 of our Constitution. Is there going to be a procedure in this sense about this municipality? Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit02spe0025par0198	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Congressmans, I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0025par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Computation Bill. 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Statistical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account The President's Office of the Gate Area [[Continue]] 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) BUILDING BUILDINGS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2015 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Academy of Justice 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2015 The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0026par0043	No AKP.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0025par0044	Now, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, the sixth speaker is Şırnak MP Aycan İrmez. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0027par0048	Thank you, Mayor. Although a lot of our talks are about power, we see now that no one has shown any sensitivity. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you in the first place. I have made a pledge on behalf of my party regarding the Turkish Justice Academy budget. The scales of justice of judges and prosecutors who come out of this institution, which is called justice, and are assigned to raise people to provide equal and fair justice for a country of 80 million people, are constantly amazed when it comes to the rest of the country. In fact, the scale is not confused, but the window of fairness is opened to the garden where the agenda of political power operates. The legal mechanism, which is obliged to maintain justice in Turkey, is known to everyone and even the entire world, in which political rulers and power are engaged. Thus, the decisions made by these institutions are entirely political rather than legal. Otherwise, 10 of our fellow co-chairs and mayors, who were held hostage today as an antidote to the government's death and the paradigm calling for conflict, would not be isolated because of their views on peace and democracy in the freedom of expression. It is clear that this middle play called justice will not benefit the country or humanity, just to be ironic in its name. The search for law is justice, and this quest is already dead. The name of the attempt to drown politics, regardless of what its name is, is middle play, and it belongs to the government for its sins. Those who have captured thousands of politicians in the hands of lawmakers and mayors should know that the justice you have today has the potential to one day be a vital necessity for you. Dear lawmakers, our MPs arrested as part of political genocide operations against our party are being used as blackmail against the Kurdish people. As Kurdish people gain gains, the start of operations against elected political will is being launched. In Rojava, Gire Spi, a.k.a. when Tel Abyad fell, Erdogan said, "I don't know the Dolmabahçe agreement." The political, economic, and humanitarian disaster that we passed through today began with this sentence between the two lips of Erdogan. On June 7th, Turkey's people supported the totalitarian policy against the Erdogan-type presidency because they saw HDP (HDP) as a guarantee of democracy. In particular, the isolation and weariness of our Co-Chair, Mr. Demirtaş, is the revenge of June 7th, an operation to take the rights and the law because they can't steal the reed. The process of appointing trustees to our municipalities after the removal of Menbic, and the arrest of mayors was launched because justice in Turkey is based on the hatred of Kurds, other oppressed peoples, the poor, the workers. This has happened from the Supreme Court to the martial law courts, from the DGM to the private court. The law of the enemy is the most concrete example of the removal of immunity and the arrest of our MPs. It is clear that politics as the science of governance in Turkey has been abolished, and as a delivery technique, enemy law has been supplied by the AKP. Why didn't you inform the public about how many of the AKP MPs, who had a trial, were called to testify, and other than that, what were the contents of these proceedings? Why do AKP MPs hide their arguments from their public conscience? But we'd like to remind you that truth has something to do with coming out sooner or later. It's the government that knows best how much of a heavy obligation these facts have. Or is that why he's so anxiously clinging to the presidential system and regime change? It seems that there is no answer to the Kurdish problem in the government. The mind, which says, takes it from there and puts it into Syria with war talks. If the government comes and the regime changes, no law can be punished. But every AKP-like person sitting at this time should know that the lifetime-long reign ended with the empires, and the hallucinated desire for this period will never change the truth. In this context, both the general and Justice Ministry budget of 2017 shows that the AKP will continue its authoritarian practices in 2017. The law enforcement forces were subject to the National Department of Defense's permission to investigate the crimes committed by military personnel fighting terrorism in 2016. Thus, it appears that justice and human dignity have been massacred by the powers given to law enforcement in violation of universal human rights values. At the same time, with these unlimited powers, social reflexes are being tried to avoid and society is wanted to be condemned to eternal silence. The AKP government has covered up law enforcement, especially crimes against humanity in the Kurdistan, and has given them the courage to move forward from there. In the 1990s, human crimes and inhumane methods were made up today by enforcing illegal organization where the law was not sufficient. In addition, for the past year, the state has been subject to all kinds of death, torture and human rights violations. With the armor you brought me, I have the name of the county that I'm acting in, and I'm afraid it's now, in particular, I'd like to show it to you. This is Şırnak; this is Şırnak Province, 81 district of Turkey's Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0028par0056	Why?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0027par0057	...but unfortunately it's only on the maps now, and this is our province of Şırnak, Şırnak. This is not Aleppo; this is Şırnak province of Turkey, not Aleppo Province of Syria. The city center of Şırnak was burned, destroyed, looted, and, unfortunately, looted, as an excuse for operations. You destroyed the history of our city, our memories there, our memories of childhood and youth. The image of our city's current destruction resembles, unfortunately, an invasion. What happened in Şırnak is an official genocide by the government. This city's genocide was staged to change the sociopolitic structure of Şırnak. This Parliament that speaks of justice must first stop the destruction of its own people's city and take care of its people. As if this public punishment policy wasn't enough, the two deputies of my town were held hostage under the law, appointed trustees to their municipality, and the executives of our party were arrested. Another thing, unfortunately, is that the Republic of Turkey has established another republic, and its name is the Republic of Şırnak. As the methods of human rights and right violations in the 90s have now been categorized, Şırnak has been officially transformed into another country; even the entrances have been very tight, and this is not another border crossing, this is the entrance to Şırnak City. Many rights have been taken away from our people, including human rights violations, such as law enforcement, police forces, or other republics, and, unfortunately, the victim of rights has recently risen to a high level. There are five platforms at the entrance. Surely our representatives who have gone abroad know this very well. There are four platforms set for vehicles, and one platform is set to allow people to enter their cities on foot. I would like to point out in particular that people are kept waiting there for hours, and while people are trying to check in around 6:00 a.m., unfortunately, they find their lunch hours, even two and three. The other thing is that every city has its center, but unfortunately, even though Şırnak is now a province, there is neither a mall nor a centre. I want you to come over there and see for sure. I want you to see the shame of the AKP government there, and I want you to see the barbarism and the violence they're implementing there. Right now, 50 percent of your people aren't back in their cities because they're coming back the way they came because, unfortunately, they're having trouble getting in there now because there's no decent home there and there's a restrictions on settlements. Another topic is that, as of September 2016, DBP municipalities have become the target of AKP power, and there have been numerous reports of corruption, but municipalities have been seized, co-chairs have been arrested, and Şırnak Co-Chair is one of them. Before the city's ban is lifted, I'm afraid there'll be an immediate investigation into appointing trustees for our mayor and he'll... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Are we out of time, Mr. President? And we would like to say for the last time, that I would like to end with a statement from our Group Vice President, Idris Bauken, who deserves to be here as much as any of us, and has democratic legitimacy to do so before his arrest. You will never, ever see our knees touch the ground in the face of your persecution. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0029par0067	Thank you, Mr. Irmez.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0030par0068	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0029par0069	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0030par0070	I don't think it's right to stand on the stand because the budget is its own basis, but for the record, I'm going to say that the statement of genocide has been used in this assembly, on this stand, on the nation's stand. I want to make it clear that that's not true. There will be photographs shown there, other allegations, not genocide...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0031par0071	Political genocide.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0030par0072	...all of it, as the public knows, is a war on terrorism. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0032par0074	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the seventh...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0033par0075	Mr. President, I'm confused. I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, I interrupted you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0032par0076	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0033par0077	I don't know if I misunderstood, if Mr. Bulent misunderstood. If it's genocide, it's a bad thing, but I didn't think HDP meant genocide in that sense. I feel like I need to fix this. This is genocide, of course, unacceptable.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0034par0078	Then let him explain, Mr. President. We understood: "The state commits genocide in the field. " He said, "This is exactly what the expression was. We don't think that's true. Let him explain. Let's find out.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0035par0079	Kent genocide.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0036par0080	The city said the massacre, the city said.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0037par0081	The genocide of the city, the genocide of the city...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0038par0082	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0039par0083	Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0038par0084	Mr. President, he made it very clear, actually. We can give him a say again. There is now a genocide in the city, a genocide of the city.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0040par0085	Kent genocide.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0041par0086	What do you mean, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0042par0087	Kent genocide.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0040par0088	Walls, concretes falling down, houses falling down.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0043par0089	Can't you see from the pictures what it means?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0044par0090	This is the removal of MPs, all political voters, mayors and elected citizens of the city and the appointment of trustees, one. He also expressed the second as the city becomes a truly eliminating Şırnak. I mean, he can express himself again. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0045par0093	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0046par0094	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0045par0095	Mr. Irmez, I promise you a moment of your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0046par0099	Sir, now, I would like to say that, yes, we're dealing with a particular urban genocide because...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0047par0100	What do you mean, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0046par0101	Now, let's see... Let me explain: Şırnak has 12 neighborhoods. Eight of these 12 neighborhoods are now completely destroyed and in no way a single human being is found. These destructions were not done by the will or consent of the people. What is this, not an urban genocide? And as of June 3rd, the governorship ended the operations. He made his statement. From June 3rd to November 14th, only the city was turned into this, that's what it was.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0047par0103	I think he means urban transformation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0046par0104	What is it that I want to ask you in particular, not to play with the culture of a city or to destroy it like this, but rather to ask you? You've completely left that city without history, without identity, without memory.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0048par0105	We call it urban transformation.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0049par0106	It's called urban transformation.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0050par0107	Is that what you call it?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0048par0108	Yeah, that's what we call it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0049par0109	Yeah, that's what we call it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0050par0110	That shame is enough for you!
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0049par0111	It's replaced by a brand-new, human-living building.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0051par0112	Well, Mr. Irmez, thank you for explaining. 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Statistical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account The President's Office of the Gate Area [[Continue]] 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) BUILDING BUILDINGS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2015 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Academy of Justice 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2015 Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the 7th and final speaker is Adana MP, Mr. Meral Danış Beştaş. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0052par0156	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. On the Justice Department budget, I've made promises on behalf of my group. In fact, my predecessors have expressed a lot of things about the Department of Justice, and I'm going to try not to go back in. I'd like to draw a picture with the headlines right now, really, what is the justice panoram in Turkey, what is the state of the judiciary, what kind of practice our Ministry of Justice has on these issues, and I'm going to share a few issues about them. Dear friends, 97 per cent of citizens in current research have already said that they do not trust justice, that the sense of justice in Turkey, the public conscience, has fallen to the ground. No citizen, except for many, many exceptions, can say, when he goes to trial, whether the plaintiff or the plaintiff, whether the defendant or the defendant, in any capacity, I don't trust this justice. He says, "I have no reason to trust justice." This is a very important issue in the justice board. Again, dear friends, in Germany, there is a concept called "enemy criminal law" that if there is an opportunity -- hopefully we will explain it in detail. We are now facing trials, especially against the ruling party, against all those who are critical and non-verbal, against all the dynamics of society, beyond enemy criminal law, beyond even hostility. When a citizen asks him how to make trials, where to do it, what to watch on the course, he can't get answers, and every day new mayors are taken into custody, arrested, then appointed trustees, a reason for appointing trustees. Dear friends, I would like to address all lawmakers: Please go to the municipalities when you go to Diyarbakır, Mardine, Siirt, Uruguay, or some other district in the Kurdish province, and decide whether it is a police station or a municipality. I'm telling you clearly, right now all the trustees have been turned into police stations. Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality is surrounded by large armored vehicles, hundreds of thousands of police officers, and every apartment manager has security personnel. A municipality there serves as a police station, not a public service. In the question we're asking, unfortunately, he said he didn't know the number of journalists, either, but because he had already received the yellow press card of journalists, he said it was very reflected in the public, with an old response to lowering it. We really want Mr. Minister of Justice to answer the number of journalists in a clear and precise manner. Again, dear friends, this period -- something very, very important, we can't focus on -- where the Constitution stands, the country is governed by generalities, regulations, and the KHK. So, when we go and deal with a law enforcement officer, he gives us a Department of Internal Affairs generalization. We say, "Ya, this sentence is useless in front of the Constitution. This regulation is useless." This decision is against the Constitution, against the law. No, I know the Minister's instructions. He says, "No, I know the Minister's instructions." And so the practices go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Now, for example, last time in Adana, I saw a joke, which hurt a lot as a lawyer. For three months, a judge arrested and made hundreds of arrests of the Fetullahists -- the ruling party he called. Then, the day I left, he was arrested, and there were these jokes being made in the courtroom, and one judge would arrest you to another, look, according to him. I mean, there's this joke between judges and friends, and right now judges can be taken and arrested. Now, I really want the whole citizen to visualize this kind of judgment and justice. Anything I say on this stand, if I have a witness, I can assure you, dear friends, that I am 100% objective. Again this year, the legal year's opening was held in Fivetepe. Again, the lotteries of young judges and prosecutors were held in Fivetepe. The President gave briefings to new judges and prosecutors and told them how to serve. He's not the Minister of Justice, I'll point out. As if the opening of the trial year wasn't enough, the president also performed the lottery ceremony of the newly appointed judges. Which clearly shows the stage of justice and justice that our system has come to. Dear friends, there is one thing: Now the safety and body integrity of prisoners, prisoners and prisoners is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, and the Minister of Justice is responsible for it. Is there torture or isn't the disease being treated or has minimal living standards? But, right now, when we're looking for a prison, it's a crime against the government's unity. I called about a prisoner in the last Zonguldak, and the warden can say that directly. The segregation is almost like medieval darkness, and it is a very, very important matter. Again, there are many references here, especially in the progress report to the Justice Department. I don't have time to talk about it, but I'd like to refer to it because we're talking about the budget. The average budget for the justice system in the Member States of the Council of Europe is 9 per cent, and we are 1.5 per cent budget. And that's proportional to justice, so it's clear how much justice actually happens. Now, dear friends, I also want to point out that isolation is torture, torture is a crime against humanity. There's no statute of limitations on crimes against humanity. Those who give the order, those who enforce it, those who make decisions, will eventually sit in the chair of the accused for torture. Currently, mayors, lawmakers and many prisoners live alone in solitary confinement. While Mr. Minister of Justice is here, I'd like to ask him directly: Did you now instruct Mr. Yüksekdağ, Demirtaş, and all the other single-handed MPs and mayors to be held alone? We're really asking. Because it's clearly being tortured by the will of the people right now. If you did, we're waiting for you to explain it, and if you didn't, we're waiting for your explanation. If you have, I say you will take your place as the minister who protects, protects, and decides in history, and in the matter of accountability, history will really do that in a timeless crime. So there is no statute of limitations on divine justice, Mr. Secretary. Right now, thousands of prisoners and co-chairs under lockdown and torture are definitely being subjected to torture, and this is being implemented. Dear friends, last year at the budget talks, Mr. Group Chairman had a question. In the budget talks, he asked the group deputy what was the sale of $7 million from ISIS and Akchakale, which you called a terrorist organization, and was accepted at the time. Are you still behind that acceptance? Let's hear it from the voice of Mr. Idris Baluken.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0053par0172	Mr. President, we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0054par0174	Mr. President, the clerk needs to speak on the stand.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0053par0176	Mr. President, will you still allow it? Then put him on the stand, ma'am, sit him down.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0054par0177	Mr. President, we'd like to invite the minister to speak.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0055par0178	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, this is the deputy leader of the group, and even though he has the right to speak here, he is now forced to be held hostage in prison.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0054par0179	That's not the podium in prison. He's your stand.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0055par0180	And yesterday I went to Mr. Idris Bauken's trial. I'll tell you, I mean, I'll explain this one day in particular...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0054par0182	Explain now.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0055par0183	Yesterday my Mardin 2. The judge I saw at the Criminal Court of Prime is publicly insulting the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, its members, dear friends. The penalty given to Mr. İdris Baluken yesterday was one of 100 per cent of his speech on the council bench, with the removal of immunity, and the lawyers' appeals under the scope of irresponsibility and absolute immunity have been rejected without a second thought. The custody of the judiciary is now established above the House in Turkey, and I say it is those who are responsible for raising their hand to immunity. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0056par0186	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş. Mr. Demirel, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0057par0191	Thank you, Mr. President. While our Minister of Justice is here, I want to point out something, so I made a promise. We've mentioned it on the stand a few times before, but since our Minister of Justice isn't here, maybe he didn't hear it himself or wasn't transmitted. So I'd like to make a point. Currently, our co-chairs and lawmakers are lawmakers who are still carrying out legislature activities, and they are members of this Parliament, but we are being seized the documents they sent us for political activities and legislative activities. And it's not just being confiscated -- some of it still can't be given -- some of it is being censored and returned to itself, not primarily, but as it's being censored. Does the Minister know about this? I want to make it clear to you that the Minister needs to clarify any circumstances regarding this matter. This is the document sent by Mr. Co-Chair. But other than that, we still haven't received the documents of our Co-Chair Figen Yüksekdağ, who won't allow any defences involving law enforcement activities. Let alone that, even the fax number -- even when it's delivered -- has been confiscated, and the fax number he's sending us is not even given to him. So, since we've seen the Minister here -- maybe not in his knowledge, maybe he's missed it before -- I wanted to show him one more time, and if he wants, I can give it to him. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0058par0195	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0059par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, in yesterday's talks, there's been a two-time hearing from the podium on the iPad. We expressed our objection yesterday. The bench is your memory. Here, the preacher can say his own ideas or someone else's ideas, but his own speech is essential. Yesterday, for example, the reports were looked at, and there's no way that they've already written what's said there, just because a voice was played, so it doesn't mean anything in that sense. Now, on the other hand, of course, we have to make a principle decision here. It doesn't matter what the content is, it doesn't matter if the co-chairs have a voice, or, you know, sir, a co-chair, but it's going to bother all of us tomorrow, and someone can make us listen to some voices that none of us want, so we don't have to sit down on a program like this. I think the Presidential Court should be sensitive about this. So I also think it's good to have a principled attitude here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0060par0202	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0061par0203	Thank you, Mr. Master. Such an objection was especially received by the AKP Group. However, I would like to point out that the members of this Parliament, who are being heard here today or in this courtroom yesterday, in the General Assembly, are not just any other human being. Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, who has been heard today, Mr. İdris Baluken is still a member of parliament, and they are currently under arrest, but they are members of this Parliament. So, of course, there may be objections to the talks of others, non-deputies, but I don't find the objection to the members of this Parliament correct. I'd like to make it very clear that there's no harm in having their words played here for a minute, as they are now under arrest.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0062par0209	Mr. President, I understand what you're saying. But, now, it doesn't matter if it's a minute; today is a minute, tomorrow is forty, we can't call it anything, when we accept a minute today. It doesn't matter to me whose voice this is, actually -- that's what I call "private" -- it doesn't matter to me. So, one day tomorrow, a congressman might want us to listen to the voice of ISIS, the leader of that terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0061par0210	No one will let him, Master.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0062par0211	No, but there is such a challenge, sir, why did you allow it before?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0061par0212	No one would let that happen. It's allowed because it's members of this Parliament that are being heard here yesterday and today.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0062par0213	No, I don't want to get into that. So here I think you should have a principled attitude. So as long as it's kept separate from who's talking, what's in its contents... it should be played here, not allowed to show images. We can't prevent this. I mean, in these very years...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0061par0214	I'd also like to point out that I don't object, Master, to the fact that the people being played are particularly parliamentary. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0063par0216	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0061par0217	Mr. Altay, I'll give you my word. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0064par0220	Mr. President, what we have here today is our Group Deputy President, Idris Bauken, and a group of members of our group speaking and speaking on behalf of this Parliament, expressing our thoughts, and speaking within this Parliament, again, a speech he had made in the same chair of Parliament. There's really no point in pulling this in different directions. That's what we're sensitive about. I mean, we don't think it's right to listen to other people's images, their voice, but today's speech, the speech he's expressed earlier in Parliament, and our members of the group know it, and we wanted to rephrase it here today in front of Idris Baluken. We send him our respect, our love from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0065par0223	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0066par0226	Mr. President, it's basically a matter of policy debate, but with time savings, I don't have that kind of demand. Now, I've said for several times that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will be transferred and operated according to the Civil Code. I've been very critical of how the presidency's acting presidents have a different attitude about the same issues. There was a meeting last year, part of a consensus on certain issues, going into that frame. Now, the whole point here is the abuse of a right. Every article of the Civil Code is subject to abuse. When you look at it like that, if it's visually used on the stand, then it's also audio-soundable, but what is it? It's extremely open to abuse, and it's an auditory issue, but it's also visually clear. Now, we allow visuals, but they're very absurd, very hurtful, hurtful, personal, or unacceptable; they can also come up here with visuals that are contrary to our traditions, against our rules, against our custom. So the whole point here is to have good intentions. However, I'd like to point out that I resent the matter that was discussed earlier. He is not an ordinary person, he is not a simple, simple MP; he is a member of a group who is currently held in prison despite the 15th article of the Constitution. I had hoped that both parties, the ruling party, and the other opposition party, would contribute to our country's democracy, especially if they had a more tolerant, more democratic, more tolerant attitude. Therefore, I stress that we don't think like the MHP and the AKP, and politics is a job of endurance, a job of kindness -- I'm not teaching anyone politics -- it's a matter of conscience.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0067par0231	Opening, Mr. Altay, complete, please.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0066par0232	There is no harm in the Republican People's Party's Party's speech being heard from the bench, on the contrary, we consider it useful. I'd like to present it to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0067par0235	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Turan, you're in the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0068par0239	Mr. President, thank you. I'm not in favor of further discussion. However, as Mr. Altay puts it, we are not ungentlemanly. It's not about what the speaker said or who he was. This is the bench; there's a position of the bench; there's a visual, there's a code of conduct; we're talking about attitude that's going to be a challenge. Or in context, that's what he said, that's what he said. Of course, we didn't make a statement like that. Besides, the problem with not being able to understand the sound when you're going on the books is that it's a problem for people who watch it on TV. That's why we're asking for more appropriate use of the bench. We just don't want anything to do with both visual and listening, which is against the scope of the podium. So tomorrow, another speaker will make us listen to another speaker, play music, and I don't think we should open this door. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0069par0242	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0070par0245	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, let me make it clear to you that I object to the speech of Mr. Engin Altay. First of all, for once, that wasn't CHP's policy yesterday. So we as the Republican People's Party... you're saying that the CHP should make a decision about it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0071par0247	We decided together.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0070par0248	Of course, it's his business, as soon as he gives it to me, I don't know. It's not about rudeness, it's not about tolerance. We're talking about a principle, a principle, the content doesn't matter. So what are we going to do here tomorrow when someone else brings in something we don't want to hear? He's going to show us this in comparison, he's going to say, "Here's what happened in history, 20 years ago. Look, something is being done here 20 years ago, and he's being set up here, and no one's looking at an argument, and ultimately, he's looking at it. Twenty years from now, one of them could show here something none of us wanted, Mr. President. Otherwise, it's not about the context of three conversations today, it's what we're saying. So if we take it to a meeting, towards an application from here, the Turkish Parliament, Turkish politics will be damaged. Besides, I haven't seen Mr. Demirtaş speak once since I was a member of parliament. I mean, why don't we just come in and listen to the congressman who doesn't talk when he's not under arrest? I can bring that kind of criticism, I don't want to bring that criticism. Or I could say, "Sir, then, let one of our friends join us in England with his voice." There's no end to this. So it doesn't matter that he's a congressman, he's a member of the group, he's a very good person, he's a very good preacher, he's a very bad person; I want us to have a principled attitude. I expect Mr. Engin Altay to understand that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0072par0252	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0073par0254	Mr. Master, I'm asking you to make a statement, saying that my statement contradicts the party policy.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0072par0255	Here, Mr. Altay, I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0073par0259	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Group, we bear witness that your predecessor has heard more voices than iPad. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Guys, there's no decision on this. I stand by what I'm saying, and it connects to the party I'm telling you. I don't know what was done here yesterday. The position of the Speaker of Parliament, who led the session, is that he, in our respect of Parliament, is neutral at the moment he sits there, his own opinion.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0074par0263	We're talking about what Levent Bey said.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0073par0264	I asked the friends, and Levent Bey had no savings, no promises.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0075par0265	Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0073par0266	We'll see, sir. We'll see.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0075par0267	We'll see, sir. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0073par0268	Sir, I'm telling the truth, I'm not saying Mr. Levent was wrong. Bring me the transcripts, we'll reassess the situation.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0075par0269	You bring it. Go get it yourself.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0073par0270	As the Republican People's Party, we say that the members of this Parliament -- which is in violation of the Constitutional Court -- should be tried -- should be tried, I have no doubt, let's all be judged, but all political party groups who are held in prison while the rights of the Constitutional Court are in the middle, still working as members of this Parliament must tolerate a minute's speech from there.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0076par0271	Yeah, that's not insufferable.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0073par0272	That's what I said. I didn't accuse anyone of rudeness. I'd like to know why you didn't have this savings while your predecessor, Mr. Vural, played a lot of noise from here.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0076par0273	That wasn't a conversation at the time.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0073par0274	So, respect for thought is the reason for this Parliament's existence. You may not accept their opinion, I don't accept many of them, but if democracy is to come to this country, it will come as freedom of expression. Where there's no freedom of speech, there's no democracy, there's a democracy, there's a democracy, there's a fake democracy, there's a democratic democracy. That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0077par0275	Tell Levent Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0073par0276	Our reason for being is democracy, democracy, democracy. That's our attitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0078par0279	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0079par0280	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0078par0281	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0079par0282	I'd like to have two minutes with the bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0078par0283	Here you go, Mr. Akçay. Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0079par0285	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, it's best not to carry the matter around. The content of the subject, victimization, tolerance, isn't about that; we're just talking about this, that it needs to be an application union, regardless of who it is, to play sound from the iPad. As of yesterday, Mr. Levent was present at a meeting of the group's vice presidents and Mr. Erhan Ustah. Since the subject of a similar common understanding is on the agenda, you should, of course, take a look at the transcripts. Otherwise, I particularly, personally beg that it is strictly intended for the proper nature and context of the matter, the procedure, the method and the application union. It's important to consider this matter regardless of whose voice it is here or what it's spoken of. There's absolutely no tolerance, no tolerance, it's not subject to anyone's grace, we're talking about an application union that we should be implementing. Please... it's a good thing to stick to the context. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0080par0290	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0081par0292	Mr. President, the deputy head of the group of the MPHP has issued a statement saying that Mr. Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş had never spoken here, and there has been a taunt. We demand word from this taunt.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0080par0293	Okay. Mr. Beştaş, please. Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0082par0296	No, that's a good point. Where's the sarcasm in that, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0080par0297	They're open now.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0082par0298	And they're open, so let's say something else, and we'll go up there.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0083par0300	Mr. President, it is not the issue of this discussion whether you can hear the voice of Mr. Demirtaş, our co-Chair, or if you can hear the voice of Figen Yükseldağ. They are officially co-Chairs of our party, and now they have co-chair duties, which continue to remain untouchable. They come when they want to, they don't come if they don't want to. I'd like to express in particular that we don't consider such a voice debate to be admissible with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This is Mr. Group Deputy President Idris Bauken. He's a member of the Parliament. He has immunity. He's being held in Kandira Prison illegally and in isolation. This is the issue of the Assembly -- first of all, I want to express the fact that lawmakers are being held like this -- without telling the party apart. This is an intervention in the identity of Parliament, in its work, in the will of the people. I told him about yesterday's trial, where a judge, like this, circled the courtroom for an hour, people, and sentenced him to 100 percent of the House speech. This is something that's been done to all of you, not only to us, but to you. Besides, this can't go on. The day after tomorrow, Mr. Bauken will come and sit in his seat, Mr. Demirtaş will come and give the budget opening speech, Mr. Yüksekdağ will perhaps make the closing, and I wonder which of you will look at it with which face.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0084par0302	Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0083par0303	If we don't defend our own law, our own position, that's the way the judgment will bring down the House, depose it, and even make the speech on the council stand a question of judgment. There's no irregularities here. We didn't listen to the voice of any citizen, we played the voice of the Deputy Director of the Group of Parliament, Mr. Baluken, who you see every day, and we'd play it again.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0085par0305	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0084par0306	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0085par0307	Mr. Akçay, Mr. Altay asked for a word earlier. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0086par0311	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm speaking to inform you and the General Assembly. I called our sentry friend, Mr. Levent Sky, to see if you had such an agreement. He said that visual, auditory material abuse -- as I said earlier today -- was clear, that a principle decision could be made, but that it would be reasonable for lawmakers to listen their previous voices to the bench. I do, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0087par0314	Well, thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0088par0317	Thank you, Mr. President. I find it inappropriate to continue this discussion by insisting on removing it from its context, and hopefully we'll close it here, as well as the groups have expressed their views. But, again, what I want to say is that we're here at the General Assembly for talks and an application for the use of those materials. Otherwise, we're saying that we're not making an assessment of the voice of these MPs or the nature of them and the context of the process they're currently dealing with. And we can also say that we have returned the words of the speaker that we cannot accept. Please, I'm taking great advantage of not being cut off from the context, just by procedure and by insisting that this matter be personalized and not directed towards a political dispute and debate. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0089par0320	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0090par0321	Well, thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0089par0322	Mr. Group's been picking on the same issue that the vice president returned, which is where I'd like to make a promise.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0090par0323	And you're in your seat because Mr. Akçay didn't use the bench, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0091par0324	Is there a taunt in return, Mr. President, what kind of taunt is this?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0089par0325	I mean, he said we were having a political dispute, in that way.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0090par0326	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0089par0329	Mr. President, this isn't a political dispute from our point of view, and I'd like to renegotiate my speech to the knowledge of all the friends. I have stated that every member of parliament here must respect the rights and responsibilities of the other MP, their authority. And all of us, regardless of the party's distinction, right now -- after the process of removing the immunity -- even the public torture of lawmakers is a problem in Parliament. The violation of absolute immunity is the issue of Parliament. A member of a party can't judge a member of the other party by a different and segregating approach; they may disagree, they may disagree, they may be in different politics, but in the same process, it is the need to respect the will of the people. That's what I wanted to express. We certainly have no idea of political conflict.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0090par0331	Well, thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0092par0332	Both the will of the people and the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must be respected. For the record, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0090par0334	Mr. Akçay, all right, copy that. Thank you. 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Statistical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account The President's Office of the Gate Area [[Continue]] 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) BUILDING BUILDINGS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2015 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Academy of Justice 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2015 Congressmans, it is now time for the National Movement Party Group to speak. First speaker, İstanbul MP Ekmeleddin Mehmet Ihsanoğlu. Mr. Ihsanoglu, your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0093par0380	Thank you, Mr. President, for your promise. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the financial budget of the 2017 State Department. At the beginning of my word, I salute the High Council, our beloved nation. I'd like to welcome Mr. Secretary of State and the distinguished representatives of the Ministry. Dear friends, on the way to the 65th government, Mr. Prime Minister Bazili Yıldırım made this statement, expressing Turkey's new foreign policy goal in this way: ▪ We will strengthen regional cooperation with our neighbours, with a sense of foreign policy that increases friends in the region and in the world, reducing their enemies, and what can we say about regional development together with our neighbours? Everyone agrees, there's no one here who won't participate, and of course we support it, but there has to be a correct strategy, a sense of foreign policy that this goal is based on for it to happen, and this strategy should be in line with the foreign policy principles that are adopted and laid down from the founding of the republic. So, what were the foundations for the establishment of this republic, foreign policy principles? Here, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the republic, can sum up the basic ideas of foreign policy by following instructions given to the Undersecretary of the Ministry; he says to the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Ataturk: "You will not interfere in the Arab world." Two: you will not be seen behind the imperialist and colonialist states. Three: you will not provoke the Russians. Three basic directives and elements... were drawn within the borders of Turkey and the world, which, of course, was for that day. There is no China that day, no Latin America, no Africa, but for the world that day, and for the close neighbours of Turkey, and for the countries in which it has to work, or cooperate, or do. For today, it may seem little, but it's true. Turkey, of course, has extended it since then. Now, Turkey carried out its foreign policy in the 1920s -- in the 20th century -- or in the 1930s -- in line with the three goals of Ataturk. After World War II, Turkey joined the Western Alliance, but when joining this alliance, it made concessions from some of those principles in its foreign policy. For example, Turkey voted against Algeria's independence in the middle of the 1950s. I mean, it's against the basic principles of the Republic of Turkey, and it's been eliminated by the late Ozal, when he went to Algeria to apologize in his prime minister's office. However, the Republic of Turkey has begun to see the consequences of its excessive dependence on this Western alliance. In the end of the 1960s, Turkey, even during the Democratic Party, went on to change this policy, to diversify it, to enrich it. After 1960, all governments of the Republic of Turkey, whether it is the right or the left, have moved towards the richness of Turkish foreign policy. When the 57th government arrived, in the government, where Mr. Bahçeli was Deputy Prime Minister, Turkey first accepted the Opening Action Plan to Africa. So, Africa now appeared to Turkey as a target in 1989 and so on. In Turkey's foreign policy, we can make this analogy in Mr. Gardenli's beautiful expression: The two-headed Seljuli eagle symbol is the spirit and meaning of two feet -- one in the east, one in the west -- and the two heads are facing the broad east and west horizon. Now, foreign policy has continued in line with the Justice and Development Party's ruling and has been very successful and has continued until 2009. In 2004, Turkey won two major victories on foreign policy: one has launched talks on the European Union; one has been the Secretary General of the Islamic Co-operation Agency. And as a witness to those days, I say that as Turkey increases its power in the Islamic world, it increases its power in the Western world, its relationship in the Western world increases its reputation in the Islamic world. As a live witness to this, I'd like to say this with great pleasure. In 2008, we can see, for example, an example of this successful policy. In 2008, Turkey received membership in the United Nations Security Council 48 years later, and Turkey became a member of the Security Council by 151 votes in the first vote, leaving its European opponents behind. For example, Austria became a member of Turkey, leaving it behind. This is the achievements of what is right until 2008. However, unfortunately, Turkish foreign policy has been passed on to different places, and since 2009, Mr. Numan has begun following a foreign policy based on nostalgia, ideology, and this is what we have achieved today, instead of the fact-based policy. In 2004, the European Parliament voted 407 votes in 2004, with 479 votes in Turkey a few weeks ago. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, while we present these assessments and criticisms, our goal is to show experience and good faith and to be hemdert. So, as Fuzuli said, there are no many, no hemderts. We are trying to be hemdert at work, and we offer our savings so that Turkey can get rid of these problems as soon as possible. Dear MPs, it is important to understand where the 65th government has made a mistake and what strategies need to be changed in order to achieve its goal. I'm here, for example, to try to deliver it analytically, starting with the Syrian issue. Now, if we consider our relationship with the Syrian regime -- so with the government -- Turkey came a very rough road with Syria -- but from the beginning of the 2000s, and then, after the Justice and Development Party came to power, they came to the point of honey, and the borders were raised, and visas were raised, and the visas were magnificently close. In fact, it has been so long that Syria has opened to us not only its own markets, but all Middle Eastern markets, and Turkey has benefited greatly. There's something here that everyone doesn't know, or there's something that very few people know, that Syria has launched direct flights from Lazkye to Magusa for Northern Cyprus. I mean, all over the world, no one but Turkey could make direct flights to Cyprus water, Cyprus airport, only Turkey, because no one else knew it. Syria opened this line and it meant something political beyond its economic contributions. In the face of small student incidents that began in Dera, which began in 2011, such a Syrian situation, the Syrian regime's cruel and brutal treatment of the Syrian regime led to the disorientation of the work. Now, what are we supposed to do there? What did we do? We said: "We will reduce this regime." Well, if you can, drop it if you can, but without knowing how powerful the regime of the Baas Party was, we suddenly went out of our way, not knowing what the international actors expected from the Baas regime and the Fivesar Assad. What happened in the end? The fire engulfed all Syria, and the fire came to us. This is the first situation, the Syrian regime. What's the second thing? The second issue: Russia, as an actor, our friend Russia, who was involved as a great actor, accepted the pressure from outside or inside to reduce the Syrian regime to a red line, and told us about it, we said no. We tried to talk them out of it. Of course, we see who wins and who loses. When we look at our Western allies, the United States, Europe, they say they're with us at first, we're going to reduce the five of us, we're going to reduce the regime. Then they told us to come in. We said, "You go first." We said, "You go first." Then they gave up, and after Gaddafi was killed, they all wanted the regime to be kept, protected, so that there would not be a chaotic situation here where Libya had been killed, such as Israel, that a country for them, that was needed for everyone, should not be exposed to the presence of everyone; and we did not accept it. Now, in this way, in this way, in Russia, in this way, and in this way, the newly elected President of the United States, Mr. Trump, has expressed that Syria has no interest in bringing down the President or interfering with Syria, their main issue is the fight against terrorism. Finally, while discussing this illustration in Syria, let us take another example of internal dynamics in Syria. What did we do wrong? We wanted to use it as leverage against the Damascus regime when segregating intentions began to emerge in northern Syria. We're meeting the leader of this segregation movement with a red carpet, and now we're trying to get him caught with a red bulletin. Congressmans, when we look at the operation of El Bab, the Battle of the Firat Shield, we believe that this is necessary as a party, but we believe that it is very late, and that it is not in 2016, but in 2012, in 2013, because there were the same grounds for legitimacy yesterday, there are also today. Today we're late, and we're paying a very expensive price, and 18 children have been killed, and three of our soldiers have disappeared. Now, no one knows what the situation will be in El Bab. With the support of Russia, the Syrian regime is about to finish Aleppo, a red line for us, and there is a tragedy, a drama that has not been seen in history. We're in no position to do anything more than pray to them because we've lost a lot of red lines and we've got 98 kilometers left. Now, I don't think there's a green light on us after El Bab, and there's no yellow light, so there's a red light on, but there's something dangerous here. When the regime forces, the Syrian army, advance, will they face the Turkish army? This is a very bad situation. That's something to think about. El Bab means the door. We wish the door was one-way, but the door could be a two-way door or a spinning door. To do this, not to do it, must be within the power of the state of Turkey, its soft strength and hard power. But how far are we going to do this? Now, in Syria, if we were to sum it up, where are our mistakes? We have two mistakes in Syria, a basic mistake, one: the moment the fire started, when there were small sparks, we were going to sprinkle water there. We didn't sprinkle, and this fire surrounded Syria. He also came to us from Syria. Well, that's the first thing. The second thing is, it's a huge mistake, we tried to bring down the regime, but it doesn't serve our national interest to bring down that regime. Dropping it will take care of our national interests. We need to maintain the sovereignty and integrity of our neighbors because that's our guarantee, too, but we didn't do it. Now, Minister, I'd like to return to the matter of Mosul-Telafer. I want to remind you, when Mosul was doing military operations and they told us, "No, you can't, you can't." We said, "We have plan B, we have plan C." Our Chief of Staff visited Washington, and after his visit, he said, "We're going to do air operations there." But we don't know how air operations are being done. Now, the situation of our Turkmen brothers and sisters over there is a mess, and we're having a lot of trouble here with our party. We're getting information, we're trying to do everything we can. But, for example, Deputy Mayor Nurettin Kaplan of the Ninova City Council has made a great deal of drama. The number of Turkmen who fled from Telafer is more than 10,000 today, who reached Azez (Azez) across the province of Kilis. What are we gonna do, and what's plan C, plan B? As for the matter of our relations with the European Union, which is a vital issue of Turkey, and whether there is an alternative to them: I mean, here, we find the Prime Minister's final statement very accurate, and I wish there were no such debate. Turkey, of course, has relations with Shanghai's organization, not with Latin America, but with the Islamic world, but with these relationships, the alternative, we'll leave here, we'll go here. If we lose the trust of our former allies, the new allies won't trust us. You have to underline that. First of all, it's got to be predictive and reliable. Madam Secretary, the stance of the National Movement Party on Cyprus is very clear and clear. On the basis of the two divisions, the protection of the historical and covenanted acquish of the Turks living on the island and the protection of Turkey's garantism -- the security of the security valve. As for the Aegean Islands, we spoke with your witness at the Foreign Affairs Commission, and you said: "There has been no change in the legal or physical conditions of the islands. " But, in particular, pictures of the island of Marathhi, which is in the media, the Greek structures there, the police station, the Greek flag, show that the issue is not so simple. We ask you to enlighten us and tell this great assembly. Of course, in the case of foreign policy, it's always assumed that there are very sensitive issues, and maybe there are some sensitive things here. You would appreciate that, and this Parliament or the Foreign Commission of this Assembly, the National Defence Commission, may listen to you. We'll leave it to you to appreciate that. I'd like to say something about the blue marmara while I put an end to it. Today, Elan, İstanbul 1st. This case is being filed at the High Criminal Court. Now, in the agreement, the release of these rights of Turkish citizens in Article 4 of the article 4 of the agreement, which, by the way, has been ordered by the Ministry of Justice to reduce the case and, according to Article 5 of the Agreement, will also pay compensation for the lawsuits of Turkish citizens abroad, the Turkish state, the Turkish government. Now, how can we accept that? I mean, it's not a matter of taking $20 million, giving it away. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm just saying my last words. So many people, 10 people were martyred, and Turkey did some very important things during that time. Finally, there is no word in the English text, not in 20 million and compensation, but in the English text "compensation" for compensation. In that regard, the Turkish public is not satisfied, Mr. Secretary. Dear friends, Turkey's reinteresting a strategy free of mistakes, new positions...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0094par0407	Mr. Master, can we give you a moment, Mr. Ihsanoglu?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0095par0408	Sure, sure, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0094par0409	Mr. Ihsanoglu, I'll add one minute from Mr. Ustah's time. Complete, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0096par0412	Thank you. Turkey needs a strategic plan that is cleared of mistakes, and it needs to be reacquired, and I want to close with a sentence here, reminding it to take new positions again. Mr. Secretary, we know how experienced you and your dear friends are, especially your newly appointed assistants, and we know that some of the troubles we face today have begun before your time. You're innocent, but you're a co-signer, and you're responsible; you're innocent, but you're responsible. We say: Foreign politics can't happen with nostalgia, enthusiasm, enthusiasm, not with ideologic addiction, not with dreams. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Turkey needs to get rid of these things, these whims, to re-calculate its national interests. With these wishes, it must be followed again by principles of credibility and predictability, and I think it must be dealt with in a very delicate way. I wish you the best of this budget when you say that, and my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0097par0419	Thank you, Mr. Ihsanoglu. Second speaker, Samsun MP Erhan Usta. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Master, your time is 16 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0098par0423	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and the great Turkish nation watching us at the beginning of their screens, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the Ministry of Development and TİK budgets, I salute you all. Now, sir, in my speech on all of it on the first day, I tried to explain how Turkey's economy came to this day, what the mistakes were, why the economy is in a crisis, why it's in a blockage. I finished my promise that Turkey needs a new growth model, both in the context of conjunctural problems and after describing Turkey's structural problems that have been going on since before, and the additional problems that have been structured during these administrations. Now, of course, when the ministry has budgets, I'm going to enter into some institutional issues and then talk about the economy of Turkey again as soon as I can. Once, first, if we look at the Ministry of Development, the AKP governments made a grave mistake regarding the Ministry of Development in 2011 and shut down the State Planning Agency and founded a ministry on its legacy, calling it the Department of Development and replacing it. This is a very long conversation. I think that the members of the ministry, probably the current Minister, or the AKP, are also uncomfortable with this, and believe that this is wrong.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0099par0428	That's where the Minister comes from, isn't it?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0098par0429	Of course, it's my opinion that if they don't believe it themselves, they can say it, and we'd even like to hear it. If this structure really is better than the DPT structure, we'd like to hear it from the Minister himself. After this terrible mistake, there's something in Turkey that's now going on with old traditions, going on with old relationships, but from now on, there's no institution left in Turkey to see the whole picture, wherever you look. For example, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary: where do they consider themselves as the Ministry of Development, especially in terms of economics, where do they consider themselves, in terms of macroeconomics, in particular, a little bit more functional in sectoral matters? I'd like them to say that. This grave error must be returned at once. Now, of course, the State Planning Agency is interested in economic and social areas, so I'm going to try to explain how Turkey's rankings on a global scale came about. I've used some of these before, and I've been talking about all of them, but the context there was different, and now I'm sorting through them... For example, Mr. Secretary, in the Global Competition Index, Turkey is getting worse by four digits in the last year, six digits in the year before that, so in two years, the Global Competition Index is getting worse by 10 digits. We didn't have the best seats anyway, and now we're in worse places. In the Human Development Index, let's face it, there's been a recent improvement, but in the last year... of course, the AKP should actually be divided into three periods. One, there's an AKP going on that powerful legacy he received in 2002, and the global conjunctive is positive, until 2007. A period of dispersion after 2007. But lately, there's been a lot of dissipation, and there's nothing left. So you have to study it in three stages, in three periods like this. This is the period when all the indicators -- one of the indicators -- showed me that this one was good. It was the last two years -- especially the last two years, but the worsening started in 2007, and I explained it over and over again. Now, in the Human Development Index, 2014, the last data, 3 digits worsening. There are eight steps in the last year, 19 steps in the year before that, in the top of the law index -- it's the most basic work, nothing happens when there's no law. Look, when you look naked, it drops from 59 to 99, it looks like 40 digits, but here I'm taking out new countries for the sake of honesty, so there are 27 digits of debacle. In two years, Turkey is getting 27 digits worse in the Rule of Law Index. There's no way to accept that. You look under this, there's the Government Open Index, there's the Transparency Index. When you look there, we're in the 96th place in 113 countries, and our place is getting worse, so we're one of the worst in the world. See, this is very important in terms of democracies; there are a lot of factors under it; the Limitation of the Government's Power is the Index, we're 108 percent from 113 countries. There's a view of Turkey like this. After that, we say, "Why is the economy bad? " In the Doing Business Index, the 2017 report, we're getting worse at six digits in the last index. There's access to a power at the bottom of this -- we should have told the Minister of Energy yesterday, but we missed it -- there's a relapse there, too. Corruption Perception Index: 20 steps worse in two years, Turkey's location falling; it's already bad, much worse. We are in the worst situation in the European Union, sharing with Bulgaria. We are the third most corrupt countries in 19 Eastern Europe and Central Asia, with five of the worst performers in the last four years, one of them. Needless to say, the PISA results are already hot, and our scores are dropping and our rankings are dropping. So Turkey is doing a really bad performance, thanks to you, Mr. AKP officials. Now, well, what's the country's State Planning Agency doing when everything's so bad? Of course, the planning and programmes are the Ministry of Development, which co-ordinates policy and objectives within them to the government. In the ninth Development Plan, Mr. Secretary, you know, performance is 3.4 per cent compared to a 7 per cent growth goal; less than 50 per cent performance. The Tenth Development Plan is almost worse, 1.3 trillion. I can't give the other one the GDP dollars or whatever, because since there's been a serial change, we're going over the growth rate there because the multinational income series is upside down, and there's not a series that's harmonizing it, but the Tenth Development Plan is, look, it's three years over, and now it's two years away, and we're in extraordinary depth of the plan, the goals. You said $1.3 trillion is a target. You're saying 815 billion dollars now, not like today's courtship, so today's schools, if these levels go, $815 billion is probably going to go down to $600 billion, so it's going down to under 50 percent, but I'm getting it again, with your predictions. 16,000 dollars per person. By that, you're saying there's going to be $10,000, and there's a lot of optimism here. So here's the average dry of 2017, 3,17 friends in this document, today's pitch is 3.50. You say export is $277 billion in the plan, $170 billion here, under $107 billion. So, especially the most important thing, is something that I'm very concerned about, you know, domestic savings, the plan, you say, 15.5 in this medium-term program, and no one knows what it's going to be. Now, therefore, under the circumstances, 2023... look, I'd like the Ministry of Development to take some initiative, please, on this matter. Mr. Secretary must have left by now. Anyway, it doesn't matter.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0100par0447	We're listening, we're listening.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0101par0448	Mr. President, there's no one left from the government.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0098par0449	No, can we continue this conversation without the government? I guess... we should take a break.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0102par0450	The negotiations are unsustainable, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0101par0451	Unsustainable.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0103par0452	Yes, Mr. Master...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0104par0453	Mr. President, he's asked permission for a moment, Mr. Secretary, that's why. It's human.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0105par0454	Then let's take a break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0106par0455	So there's no three of them, and there's no three of them.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0107par0456	Mr. Turan, the MPs are right. The budgets of the three ministries are being discussed and no ministers are here.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0108par0457	No, we're used to no lawmakers. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven congressmen. I thank them.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0107par0458	Mr. Secretary is here. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0108par0460	But I think you'll add three minutes to my time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0107par0461	I'll add another half minute.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0108par0462	Well, in that case, 2023 targets, indeed, because I don't think the President was informed. Still, Mr. President says the 2023 targets are being discussed, the goals that can no longer be imagined. Look, when we continue with the same trends in this document of yours, let me just say two indicators: a person called $ 25,000 will receive an income of 12,500-12. It could be about $800. The GDP you call $2 trillion -- 1,050 trillion -- is the maximum of $1 trillion. So I'm not taking today's courses, look, today's pitches, if this weather goes, none of this is going to happen anyway. So, Mr. Secretary, please make a statement as to whether their 2023 targets are valid. Now, by simplifying it, I've made a painting like this. In my opinion, this is the picture of Turkey's economy. Now, here, for the Minister to see, let's show it this way, and then the screens will see it. What we're doing here is that these columns show total investments in Turkey. So that's 13 years before the AKP, the first bar graph, and the second one is thirteen years from AKP. So if we look at the graph here, on average, the average of the year, of course, thirteen years before -- I got the average of thirteen years before, and the average of thirteen years after -- this is where we see the investments drop. Where did he fall from? Total investments have fallen from 21.6 to 20.4. Don't look at things like this, they've had their ceremony 30 times, they've had their PR. It's an investment. This is an investment of the Ministry of Economics and Development. If there's any mistake, Mr. Secretary, let him say these numbers are wrong. I'm putting my own numbers on the table, okay? According to the 13 years before them, fixed capital investments in Turkey have dropped by 1.2 points annually, friends. Shall I tell you what's worse? Look, in the past 13 years... there's a line down there, blue -- it's small, it doesn't seem -- that's the current Turkey gave in 13 years before the AKP, the average is 0.6 points per year. I mean, what was the definition of the current deficit? The difference in savings and investments, which is your savings and investments, when domestic savings are not enough, you're using non-privileged external savings. Turkey has managed to invest so much with tiny current deficits, so tiny external resources? He grew up with his car open during the AKP. Look, you see the blue, it's up to 5.3 percent. You raise it to 5.3 percent, you use all that resources from outside, and yet you reduce investments in Turkey. It's a really big success, so what kind of success is that, guys? It's got to be looked at. I'm not saying this as criticism or opposition, but when you don't solve the problem of this painting, you can't solve any economic problems in Turkey. Thus, the blue areas show Turkey's investments with its own resources. In 13 years before you, this is Turkey, which you don't like; the investments that you now advertise are 15.1 percent. It's not just public; it's public plus private, total investments in Turkey. So, this problem needs to be solved. Please give me an answer. Now, I'm going to take a little break from economics, there's a corporate TİK issue. Now, TİK is an autonomous institution. The TÜİK presidency has been run by proxy for a long time, and a significant portion of the subsidiaries are being run by proxy. Now, here's the autonomy of TÜİK. The president of the TİİK is appointed by the Council of Ministers and cannot be deposed in any way, which is part of, you know, very clean conditions, except for the dirty situations. I mean, you give them autonomy there, you give them power. Because the numbers he's given, the numbers he's talking about, they're very important. We run an institution like this almost from head to toe with power of attorney. This is so wrong. Second: Of course, when this is run by power of attorney -- and I just gave you the indexes -- you're going down 10 digits in that institutional construction index. Why are you falling? If you run an autonomous institution with power of attorney... there are many other issues like this. For example, the SECs, which were released in 2011, have been a major factor in the wear-down of institutions. Friends, bureaucrats today act like partyers, bureaucrats of the Republic of Turkey act like partyers. I saw it very clearly when I came to the House. When we were in bureaucracy, we couldn't see so much because you treated us differently. But here, if you're a member of the opposition party, you're dealing with a bureaucratic structure that's a lot stronger than those politicians over there. This will take Turkey nowhere, Minister. Editorial authorities... there's no independence. If you're going to keep this up, take them back to their former state, their ministry, at least let us know what we're dealing with. Now you're talking about independent authority, you're interfering all the time, you're doing politics on it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0109par0470	His name is independent.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0108par0471	We've already seen where high-level appointments with no public experience bring Turkey. Now, in 2009, I attended a meeting at the OECD. The effects of the global crisis continued. At the time, the Foreign Minister, Mrs. Clinton, said: "We will overcome this crisis because we have powerful institutions. So, you've exhausted these institutions, so please think a little bit more about them. Now, to continue with the TÜİK issue, there is a 4/C victimhood in TİK. It's a shame these kids work late at night. He goes where the police can't get in, he fills out polls, these kids, and they have no rights, no law. Mr. Secretary, they need to be put on staff, and they need to be fixed on wages and working conditions. Look, these are people who work really hard, and I'm telling you very clearly, these female employees, these women, they go into places where the police can't go in, they go into houses, they get polls, they collect information, they interview. This is a gift from 666 to Turkey, which is part of the KHK, which is also in your institution. I think it's the Minister's debt to fix this. There are statisticians, working in the same room, one more senior, one more senior. I mean, if the senior one came to TÜİK, especially later, there's a thousand-dollar wage difference among the statisticians. There's over a thousand lira difference between two people working in the same position within the same institution, or actually doing the same job. TÜİKbook needs to prioritize his work well. A significant number of information can't be produced today because it doesn't prioritize its TİK work. What are these, for example? It's a national income in revenue; it came out in 2006. What was released until 2006 disappeared after 2006. Now, last time, we had an argument here with the Minister of National Education. To show us how well teachers are, the Minister of National Education told us: "Look, in 2002 the teacher was buying this much milk, and now he's buying this much milk. " Head-to-head on the bread, a little bad on the milk. I mean, if teachers were to drink milk all the time, if they didn't have any other needs, there really seems to be an increase in the welfare of teachers. We've already explained that this analysis is wrong and everything, but when we look at other goods, teachers, like, you know, when a teacher drinks tea, there's a 30% reduction in his well-being. Every single one of them, no matter what product you look at, it's low on purchase power. Now, if this isn't a trick, what does it mean, that in terms of property, a teacher -- as an example of teaching -- is that an officer's ability to buy isn't reduced? Since we're growing up, we're getting up, I'll take care of what you've given us out of prosperity. I've done a more complex study here, and I'll have the Department of Development take a look at it, Mr. Secretary, and I think he'll come up with an answer. 30.1% is 30.1%; if a teacher were to buy prosperity, if he were to buy national income, his prosperity would be reduced by 30 percent. So I'm asking you together because you didn't take out the income distribution: who did you give the welfare to that teacher that you didn't give the officer, that you didn't give the officer? Or are you afraid that you will not make it clear? I'd like to ask you a question if you're afraid of lowering your wages there and increasing some of your rant revenues. So this is a very important issue. Now, budget and macro, let me put it this way, we've already discussed a lot of details in the Commission. So, in 2016, everything is already worsening according to the previous one, and in 2017 everything is... according to 2016, and according to 2017, all macros and budget systems are being worsened, and the budget budget is called the budget. Please tell the Minister to come here and tell us that this is an investment budget. It's not an investment budget. There's no increase in investments by the rate of national income. This is the consumption budget, this is the consumption budget. There's no trust in work because things are always different with words, and today the economy is in crisis. Mr. Prime Minister is making a statement yesterday, and after Mr. Prime Minister's statement, dollars are popping up in the country. Is that even possible? Why? Because there's no trust, there's no trust. We need to take a look at this.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0110par0480	Master, I'll give you one more minute. Please complete.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0108par0481	Okay, thank you. So we see very clearly that this is not an investment budget, we already have the numbers, so there's no need to say the numbers, 4,9, 5.1. It's a consumption budget. Today, for example, an interesting example, the Ministry of Family... was made yesterday, I saw on TV that in 52 counties, the children of martyrs are given tablets, 750 tablets. There's been a whole ceremony for 750 tablets. I mean, 750 tablets, I'm sure I'm spending more money on organizations than money. So public consumption has increased by 3 points in this economy in your time, so what you're getting from 9.5 billion TL, goods and services, has now reached 50-60 billion TL today. I mean, you don't have one ceremony for one thing now, one ceremony at a time, 30 times at a time. I had my friends look at it, at the opening of the Ataturk Dam, at the Ataturk Dam, which was not as large as these 750 tablets were performed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is that even possible? After that, you say: "There will be no production, we must reduce consumption." All your practices are aimed at increasing consumption. I think you'll find that cutting down on my consumption isn't the word. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0111par0489	Thank you, Mr. Master. The third speaker is Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Kalayci.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0112par0494	Mr. President, I've been sworn in by the National Party of Movement about the budgets of regional development administrations. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation. We'll understand Mevlit Kandili on Sunday. I congratulate you on this day, Mevlit Kandili, and pray from the Most High that we may receive the intercession of our Lord (SAV), the Prophet who honors the world with his light. And I'd like to make an invitation. Between December 7th and December 17th, the International Memorial of Vuslat's 743th Anniversary of Vuslat is held in the province of Konya. We are waiting for all of them in the land of hosts. The love, tolerance, unity, and brotherhood that we seek and deeply feel the need for is kept hidden in the ulterior messages of the Lord of Israel, and the address is Konya. In the year of the Great Creator's vision, I remember the Lord God with mercy and gratitude and gratitude. Dear lawmakers, at the beginning of the most fundamental problems facing the Turkish economy are the differences in intergalactic development. Since the 1960s, projects, plans and programmes have been set up in our country to reduce regional differences, as well as regional development administrations. The GAP Regional Development Administration, established in 1989, has been doing an important task for twenty-seven years, but since the GAP project cannot be completed, the administration's mandate is permanently extended. The KOP, DAP and DOKAP Regional Development Administrations were established in 2011 with very limited tasks and powers, and since they were not institutional yet five and a half years later, they had to be extended until the end of 2019. Nothing has been done in the 64th Government Action Plan, however, in the first six months of 2016 to improve the institutional structure of regional development management processes and the development of staff structures. Mr. Secretary, please explain why you haven't fulfilled your promise, why the staff needs haven't been met. These governments must be able to carry out effective coordination duties. Laws 5763 and 5921, adopted in 2008 and 2009, envisioned the allocation of funds from the Unemployment Insurance Fund and privatisation revenues to exclusive investments in economic development and social development. The government immediately implemented the GAP Action Plan for 2008-2012. The immediate acceptance of the KOP Action Plan, which is vital for the region and for Iconia, has been constantly brought to the attention every year with my talks, my questions and press conferences. Finally eight years later, last year, KOP, DAP, DOKAP, and GAP Action Plans, covering the 2014-2018 period, were announced. At $9.9 billion, the government has allocated the least source to the KOP region. This year, the area consisting of Koniah, Karaman, Aksaray, and Niğde, was added to Nevşehir, Yozgat, Kırırşehir, and Kırıkkale. In this respect, increasing the resources assigned to the KOP (KOP) must be added to the KOP project stockpile, especially projects aimed at the development of our counties. Only the face measurement of the host is nearly the size of the Netherlands. Well, why can't I have a cognac when the Netherlands is exporting 90 billion dollars in food and agriculture? But the government has no such vision. Because in many provinces, the government has established agricultural-based areas of organised industry, but the capital of the tar is not in Konya. In many counties logistical centers have been active, but the Iconium hasn't had an inch in ten years. Moreover, water is the problem with the plains of hosts. The KOP project stock must be included in new water supply projects outside the basin, new Blue Tunnels must be made. Making needed investments will ensure that the Inner Anatolian Region will be the future of all Turkey for agriculture and food, not just for the Inner Anatolian Region. Many of our historical and cultural values in Iconia have entered UNESCO's World Heritage List, but have failed to make the government's list. The plans for the total 28 cultural and tourism protection and development zones, which have been declared in 20 counties, have been prepared, but unfortunately there are no Konyas among them. Only the Manor Temple is the museum that has the most visitors this year. Yet, it is not possible to understand why no place is considered in Konya. Dear lawmakers, the regional development differences of KOP provinces have grown year after year, especially in the region and villages have been evacuated due to migration, and our people have flocked to cities. During the 2015-2017 census, the population was reduced by more than 30 per cent. The total population of 28 districts outside the central province of Konya was 939 thousand in 2007, while 6.3 per cent in eight years dropped to 880,000 in 2015. The All-city Law, contrary to what is alleged, has accelerated the migration. The population of our counties has also decreased last year, and there are more than 9% of the population in one year. The government's incentives have fueled the differences of development, much less the difference in development. The current incentive system creates an imbalance between regions, creating unfair competition between neighbouring provinces. For example, the incentive system inhibits private sector investments in Iconia. Why would an investor choose Konya, especially their counties, when he has cities right next to him where he can get more incentives? So it is the AKP governments and the wrong policies that block the development of our boroughs, which cause villages and cities to ejaculate due to migration. I claim that Turkey's most laggards are in the Inner Anatolia, in the Toros. The state of Uncle Recep's torn tire and two-bedroom home of a coal martyr in the Ermenek coal disaster reveals the state of the region's development. There should be no evaluations based solely on the borough centers. Today, the situation of beautiful villages and towns is becoming increasingly desolate. Public investment alone is not enough for development; private sectors and society must be joined. In order to ensure development and to stop migration, the potential of each settlement should be assessed by focal, vanguard and support sectors, and the sectoral and narrow sector incentive system. On the other hand, the Marmara basin is stuck because of heavy industrial investments. It is clear that for sustainable development, industry must be moved towards new centres in Asia Minor, such as Iconia. I'd like to ask the Minister of Development if you have a plan, a study, for sustainable development? I believe that the policies and measures that will be implemented within this scope will make a significant contribution to the development of regions and the country and to the resolving of the gaps in development between the regions. Dear MPs, as you know, on 2 September 2016, the Prime Minister announced a new programme under the "East and Southeast Anatolian District Centres for Attraction" programme and the Investment Support Movement. As the National Movement Party, we hope that the government's initiative in this direction will be wiped out of the region's separatist terrorist organization and turned into a real opportunity for economic and social development. On September 30, 2016, Mr. President, we sincerely recommend that this matter be discussed under the East and Southeast Anatolian Development Programme and the Model of Country Development Centers, which was presented to the public at a press conference by our President, State Bahçeli. The projects we call rural development centers model, agricultural cities, or central villages are adapted to the conditions of our country today. The model we project in the name of Country Development Centres is actually a subroutine of the integration programme, which aims at economic growth, social development, social reconciliation and national unity and integration. I wish our budgets well, with respect.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0113par0507	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. The fourth speaker is İstanbul MP Celal Adan. Mr. Adan, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 17 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0114par0512	Mr. President, I have been promised to explain the views of the National Movement Party on the Justice Department budget. I salute your grand delegation, our dear citizens who are watching us on television. Where there is no justice, there is no human dignity, there is no human honor; where there is no justice, there is no flag, there is no country. The issue of justice is one of the most important, precious, and divine wills in human history. If there is no justice, the pillars that sustain the state are either rotten or collapsed. Throughout the ages, the greatest sanction is the conscience of humanity, as our late teacher, Professor Erol Güngör. It is said that Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror of the Padishah, our great Khan, had you not shown the iron rod in her hand and condemned me to cut off my hand before God, I would have broken your head with it. In the Turkish state tradition, bribery is regarded as selling the personality without honor. Moreover, when the great Islamic philosopher Ibn Haldun was the victim of a psychological defeat in the 14th century, it is the end of the nation. Now, that psychological superiority is the issue of justice that gives us the basic value. Throughout history, justice has been a way of life that mankind has always tried to achieve. The justice necessary for the establishment and continuation of social order is undoubtedly found in state agencies at the highest level of institutional implementation. When Turkey is in one of the most critical, heavy, dangerous crises in our history, time is expressed by the Prime Minister and the President, as well as by us. In such cases, it is vital that the country's public institutions, especially justice, are neutral and active. In World War II, democratic countries survived with the integrity of public institutions, especially the judiciary, even if there were coalitions in power, and eventually they defeated Hitler. If justice and law are removed from its true form, it will lose its spirit and its sanction, encouraging the increase of injustices and irregularities. Every misdemeanor has a legal cover, and justice bends and emerges a system where the strong are legitimate, rightful, and the weak are vulnerable. If we don't want the justice institution to collapse, if we want the decisions made to be met in consciences, first of all, it is imperative that the judicial institutions and all the jurisprudences involved in all the actions of the execution remain within the framework of law and justice. We, the National Movement Party, have acted consciously on political responsibility and have warned them of every wrong, flawed, biased, and arbitrary application of the government so far. We have repeatedly pointed out that those in your office who claim to be just and just will not be unjust and arbitrary and that they will benefit from reviewing themselves and making a self - criticism. Because, in one country, if those who move and run that country and all the institutions of the judiciary go away from justice, then we're sailing into uncertain, unknown, and dangerous waters. Dear lawmakers, limiting the sovereignty represented in the Turkish state tradition by the ruler is a result of the perception of the state's contents as justice. This content, attributed to the concept of the state, also shows that it is viewed as a moral concept. The essence of the state is justice. A state can only gain moral legitimacy by having such a essence, and the understanding of a social state can only be carried out through a principle such as justice. Seljuk's Veziri Nizamülmülmük is the legacy of a traditional mentality written about a thousand years ago. A country is not destroyed by blasphemy, but by persecution. In the Turks, justice is not a favor to the people, but a responsibility to the people; justice has always been considered above all beings and has always been at the bottom of them. The expression of this situation has reached the long line, along with the proverb I spoke. Justice is the most fundamental principle of action that our supreme religion, Islam, has commanded to regulate social life. The most fundamental category in our religion is the distinction between justice and persecution. The prophet Muhammad, who has not punished the men of the state who have violated justice, has to collapse. He said that justice is the foundation of the property we know so well. On the other hand, hiding behind the opportunities that democracy offers, providing different possibilities for the allies is the basis for social tremors, objections and discontent, and then the loss of trust in the state. As for those who, no matter what position they are in, make themselves comfortable and protect themselves, their requital in the sight of the people is that they are branded, without mercy, without shame, without mercy, without justice. It's natural that as we talk about lawlessness, solidarity, and pleasure, being a good and honest citizen is now almost considered a liability, which is one of the most important reasons for social collapse. Because to forgive the fault of those who remember, but to let our poor citizens crawl through court doors for years when it comes time for them to take their rights is to prove that the rights of power are not sincere at the point of law. For our citizens, it is incumbent on us to express a common opinion in your presence. Our citizens believe that there is no fair practice in the courts, that the strong and the one he knows will run every business. While Turkey is going through a very dangerous crisis, while fighting terrorist organisations, do not worry that the loss of confidence of the judiciary and public institutions in Turkey, especially in recent years, will also create dangerous problems. What is the role of the Central Bank in money, loans, interest, inflation policies in the country? The Minister of Justice should explain this to us. The Central Bank announces a decision, the same day in the evening or the next, the President eliminates the impact of this decision by speaking to the Prime Minister. Political power is destroying the credibility of the Independent Central Bank. I'd like to point out that it's very difficult to talk about unity and unity and order of state in a country where the law runs like a bandit, where injustice surrounds our nation like an octopus. You can appreciate that in a country where trust in the law is shaken, it's almost day-to-day for the ulterior motive, for the organization and for the gangs, who are hiding behind the excuse of lawlessness. Because these groups of abuse that are looking for opportunity go into different formations, they make sneaky plans, and they do acts that create social confusion and crisis. I mean, justice, right and law are justly carried out. Those in power in particular need to pay close attention to the relationship of rights and justice. If there's a frequent and continuous demand for justice and justice in a society, there's a violation of rights in that society, which we can't ignore. By the way, I would like to give an example of the understanding of justice of the Crown Clerk in Kutadgu Bilig, which was written by the great Turkish thinker Yusuf Has Hadjib. Joseph Has Hajib says, "The law is justice for the continuity of my administration." The goal of justice is the domination of good, and the destruction of evil. To do so, the righteous must gain dignity and the wicked must be punished. Congressmans, justice is to place something in place, to give every legal right to its rightful owner. To be fair is to be impartial and primitive in judgment and conduct, to observe equality; to do righteous and honest work, free from the influence of reasons such as interest, intimacy, hostility, prejudice. For this reason, the two most comprehensive concepts of law and morality need to be considered together, as well as the concepts of justice, because these principles are the basic rules of government, as they are in the everyday course of human behavior: In the meantime, we have questions for Mr. Secretary to answer in writing, so that the occassion of events may go into the transcripts: 1) How many changes have you made in the Penal Code in the last three years? What are the contents of these? In what time zones have investigations been obstructed by these changes of law, and in what time period have the rights of defence been restricted when investigations have been facilitated as much as possible? 2) What changes have been made in the appointment of judges and prosecutors at what dates of examinations and interviews? 3) How have the conditions and examination procedures of lawyers to become judges changed at what time? 4) How have the rules of trustee appointment and conditions been changed? We know the answers to these questions in the basics. All of this is the government's politicisation of the judiciary. I'm asking Mr. Secretary to answer the technical details in writing, so he can report to the report. Management is a trust to see people's needs, to protect their rights, to secure their safety, to judge between them with justice, to ensure their freedom of religion and conscience. Just as government executives protect such relics, authorities they will bring to work need to have such qualities, such morality. To be given to those who do not deserve the government or use its mission to personal gains, or who do not know how to fulfill the trust, unfortunately, it causes persecution, injustice, and unrest. In this sense, the great Lord of the Qur'an, verse 58, says: "Allah commands you to deliver the trusts to his people, and when you judge between people, judge with justice." This is what God advises you. Indeed Allah is all-hearing, all-seeing. People of power, it is also a divine responsibility to criticize whether or not you have fulfilled this trust properly! Now, while I'm reading this verse, I would like to testify to something whether I want to or not at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, look, there are incidents that burn inside us, happening east and southeast. We came out as a friend of yours in the 24th-century Parliament about the events that burned us in the southeast, where the government officials, the governors, the police chiefs, the military officials, are looking for us from time to time; what kind of state are you now in Illinois, Cizre, Diyarbakır's main centers, where the moats were dug, where the weapons were placed, and who even put them down to themselves in a statement? Who are they? Who are they, who are they claiming to be military uniforms with PKK rags? What kind of state are you? What kind of state are you now? When I ask you, why you don't ask us to act in an intervention? Now, I'm asking our Minister of Justice, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: Can you speak of justice that day in Turkey, when weapons, weapons, weapons that are effective enough to drill into a tank, bombs that weigh 5 tons, 10 tons, 20 tons, are being thrown into the trenches of the southeast and those who don't stand trial? (Applause from MHP rows) How are we going to talk about justice, how are we going to say justice? Therefore, with Turkey's main philosophy about today's challenges, the unity of the nation, stability and the precision of its survival with a strong state in this geography, the National Movement Party is, of course, on the side of the Turkish state today with its historical sense of responsibility, against these operations in the southeast, and I know that we are not responsible for any of the justices of this period, but if we speak of justice and the testimony of the Prophet, and with the testimony of the verses of Genab-i Hakk. Indeed, justice is also one of the essence of the ruler's word. If there is one thing that he thinks and one thing that he says, he is the truthful one." After his warning, it is inevitable to face the truth: When rulers resort to falsehood, persecution follows. Reverend lawmakers, in today's budget talk, we have tried to explain the values of thousands of years of Turkish state understanding and discipline, and what we say must be taken especially seriously by the ruling party. When we are far from justice, you cause the opposite of persecution to come. The way to prevent that is that the administrators are not negligent, that what they place at the head of institutions is not particularly weak in character and fully. Do not deviate from justice, and do not flee from consultation under the roof of this Veteran Assembly, and do not abandon the great command. Because what he says is that both the verse and the facts: "He who invents it can't be wrong." So there's an important connection between adjective and consultation. Another important issue is the establishment of justice, the establishment of law enforcement, and the preservation of public order. "The law based on justice is the pillar of this sky, which cannot stand in the sky if the law is broken." That's why we're anxious to see that there's a fear and assassination environment in the streets, in the streets, in the city, where there's no safe travel, not even a road, no life, no goods and no integrity, and our country's stability and direction is lost. Dear MPs, the entire world has witnessed that July 15th, Turkish political life was the most sluttiest, most patriotic, most despicable attempt in Turkish history. That's true, but in the process that we're talking about justice, it's not possible to talk about justice in Turkey without the fact that you let it come to the power to do July 15th, the political force that organised this July 15th, and the ground that has led to concealing itself enough to coup Turkey. In this scope, the Ministry of Justice must always pay attention to the following issues: the recovery of the judiciary's chronic problems, which have been accumulated by years of neglect. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll just be a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0115par0542	Mr. Adan, I can only ask Mr. Parsak for a moment.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0116par0543	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0115par0544	Okay. We'll add a minute of Mr. Parsak. Please complete.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0117par0546	One: The chronic problems that have been accumulated by years of neglect of the judiciary must be corrected, and the poor financial positions of the workers must be corrected. Two: A sense of distrust of the judiciary and a healing study on the perception of the judiciary as a threat. Three: The independence and neutrality of the judiciary must be maintained, not approved for politicisation. Four: All structures and initiatives that pose a threat to public order, state, country, and nation must not be given life under the law. As I said from the beginning, justice is the greatest expression of divine will on earth. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0118par0553	Thank you, Mr. Adan. The fifth and final speaker is Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak. Your time is 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0119par0558	I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Justice and Prosecutors' Board, the Justice Academy of Turkey and the Execution Institutions and the Association of Business Homes of Prisons. On this occasion, I salute the Veterans' House. Before I begin, I salute our judges, our public prosecutors, our lawyers, our bureaucrats, our clerks, our bailiffs, our guards, and all the heads of the army of justice, who are serving as lawmakers to establish justice all over Turkey. Dear MPs, budgets are one of the political control tools of our legislature, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, over the government. The budget right of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the sole source of legitimacy for the authority used at the point of access and use of public resources. Parliament uses its budgetary rights to ensure that the nation's gains are again being used in a healthy way for the nation. In this way, all public revenues and expenses will be opened to the control of parliament, the representatives of the Turkish nation, and needs and investments will be determined in this way, and the control of expenditures will be provided in this way again. The main goal in budgets is to ensure efficiency, efficiency and accountability in providing and spending public resources. So the budget is much more than just what institution, how much money will be given. As such, the budget is an important mission of Parliament, representing not only the government but the great Turkish nation. Therefore, decisions must be considered not only by the government, but by the approaches and trends of the entire Assembly. However, when it comes to implementation, the budget does not make much sense beyond the work of Parliament, which lasts until morning. During the AKP's rule, the budget has been reduced to approval of meaningless and often conflicting paintings, which have been neutralized in various ways by parliament and the Court. Many cases, such as municipal economics and return capital in the public health sector, are important examples of public resources, which have been repeatedly abducted from the Parliament and the Court and unfortunately left out of the central management budget, which is currently being discussed. The government, which does not give up what it has not done to the private sector in the name of the non-registered economy, disagrees on how it collects and spends its public resources under its own administration, and tries to use the country's resources without account, despite its ease, to avoid parliamentary and Court control, despite its ability to avoid spending in its budget. Members of parliament, the Republic of Turkey survived four elections in 2014 and 2015, the first three months of 2016 with a temporary budget, and the nine-month budget of 2016 was only in effect on April 1, 2016. Three and a half months after the implementation of the 2016 budget, our country was shaken by a great betrayal; as a result of the government's process of treason under the name "provoy", PKK terror has been added to its growing terror since July 2015, which has again taken the most vital points of the Turkish state, including Turkish Armed Forces and Turkish justice. In the July 15 treacherous coup attempt, the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the sole purpose of the great Turkish nation's will, was bombed, and 241 of our citizens were killed. Once again, our martyrs ask for mercy from the great God, and I give thanks and thanks to our veterans. With the July 15 coup attempt, it has been revealed that traitors have reached effective points within the Turkish state of Turkey, with the nationalist nationalist movement, which was political with the motto of my country and nation, and the result of the lack of listening to warnings by its leader, Mr. State Gardenli, long before the test was broken. In 2017, budget talks are held in such a critical environment. The country's problems are overlapping, and the price of political and financial policies that AKP has been irresponsible for 14 years has been heavily paid by the Turkish nation. Honorable MPs, justice is the foundation of property, the state. In this respect, justice is the most important element of the state that comes before anything else in a state. The Turkish nation lost confidence in justice during the 14-year period of AKP rulings; for years, confidence and satisfaction are different things. During the AKP administrations, where each ministry is referred to in the name of a congregation, the government, which has brought justice to masked traitors, unfortunately, has watched the events until the end of injustice has touched it. As if the trust in justice index was not enough to crawl on the floor, the export of 3,000 judges and prosecutors was added, and the government was forced to accept the full nakedness of the government as well as of what terrorism has done to the Turkish judiciary. Our nation, which has already weakened its trust in justice, is questioning the decisions of tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of cases that the judges and prosecutors are looking at, which are already registered by the state in which it is a member of the government, are not moving a leaf. Government officials, who have made it a practice to speak out of birth control to abortions, to tobacco use in football, to almost every issue given to construction and environmental engineering, are trying to burden the Turkish nation with the result of seeing the judiciary as part of its execution. In the face of severe developments in the process, AKP governments, who have tried to create their own judgment by ignoring criticism and warnings of the nationalist Movement Party, have begun to be swayed like a ship that lost the law, a reference point, without a compass. At this point, it has been discovered that traitors have settled directly into armed forces, security and justice, which are responsible for the security of the country, considering the number of people expelled from these three vital institutions, it has been revealed that at best one third of the country's defence and the justice mechanism has fallen into the hands of this treacherous structure. The main problem here is that AKP is looking at the law the wrong way, seeking justice elsewhere in its own way. Justice isn't about making up a book about crime that's become a habit. During the AKP administrations, amendments made in three-digit figures, especially by public tender law number 6183, law and criminal prosecution laws, and the amount expressed in three-digit numbers, have revealed the view of Justice and Law's legal concepts, which may refer to the limits of supervised liberalisation in the Law of Justice and Law, which is recently on the country's agenda and is perceived as an amnesty for child abuses. Respected lawmakers, the HSYK, which directly concerns judges and prosecutors who argue and decide on behalf of the great Turkish nation, should be seriously focused on this task and its powers. In the latest amendment in 2010, Despite all warnings from the National Movement Party, a Constitutional Court, which is an extension of the execution, was targeted by HSYK. Immediately after the constitutional amendment, the AKP failed to repair the destruction of the AKP's understanding that it was being hunted as it was going hunting, although the AKP has acknowledged that the 2010 amendment, which it previously advocated with the treacherous structure, was wrong at the Constitutional Compromise Commission table in 2011, has not changed. The foundation of the July 15 coup attempt was set up with a change of HSYK, with cases of conspiracy, such as military espionage, Ergenekon, and Balyoz AIIey, designed by the HSYK, allowing dedicated officers and generals of the Republic of Turkey to replace them with members of the treason ring. As a matter of fact, on the morning of July 15th, the first thing that started this coup attempt was the cleaning of the HSYK and the judiciary. At this point today, HSYK has been given a certain relief, but the system in practice is capable of polluting HSYK again. Ten members of the 22-member HSYK are still elected by judges and prosecutors, with the potential for open camps among judges and prosecutors expected to distribute justice. On the other hand, the relationship between judges and prosecutors and members of the HSYK, which is elected by members of the HSYK, makes it especially moot for judges and prosecutors to make their decisions about self-electing judges, promotions, transfers, and disciplinary procedures controversial. Honourable lawmakers, the government's view of justice shows itself not only in HSYK, but also at the Academy of Justice. Our criticism of the Justice Academy's assessment of the number of beds and its success remains in memory. With the July 15 coup attempt and the expulsion of about 3,000 judges and prosecutors, the swift deployment of candidates for judges and prosecutors at the Justice Academy has once again demonstrated the vital importance of the Academy of Justice. Honourable lawmakers, there is not only injustice in the Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes of the Prisons, but there is also, unfortunately, the usual incompetence. In our country, there are still no labour homes in one-third of the penal institutions, while in the institution of executions, major structural problems and staff shortcomings are observed. The subject of the learning of professions and art of prisoners is ignored, yet another area of government-like activity arises. On the other hand, in the time we left behind, the number of prisons we often criticised has reached a high stage after the coup attempt on July 15th, and even the secret pardons issued by expanding the limits of supervised freedom have not been able to reduce the hail of prisons. Prisoners and prisoners are still taking turns sleeping in prisons. Honourable MPs, it is an important obligation to maintain the law of staff that provides justice in the Republic of Turkey. Despite some improvements, the rights of judges and prosecutors who are still being paid under the poverty line must be improved. Similarly, for justice to be done, the rights of the court staff, crushed under heavy work burdens, must be improved and evaluated in a separate service class, considering the intensity and quality of their work. The State Officers' Law must be added to the class of justice services, thus solving a major problem involving 120,000 staff members in the Ministry of Justice. At this point, at least the law proposal for our bailiffs to be evaluated in the category of general management services should be taken into consideration. The Court's workload and the quality of its work should be reorganised, and a certain amount of court fees should be distributed to court staff. On the other hand, the burdens of execution guards must be met, and they must be met with a new arrangement, including working hours and overtime fees. The improvement of physical working conditions should be a priority, especially in the courthouse buildings, and justice should be applied to those who are in charge of providing it before anyone else. In order to maintain and raise the Turkish judiciary to its rightful place, the inspection compensations of HSYK inspectors who perform very critical tasks should be increased, followed by the intensity and privacy of their work. Increased numbers of our judges and prosecutors, reducing workloads is another important issue that directly impacts justice and is vital, along with the July 15 coup attempt. Once again, the discovery of links to judges and prosecutors, including judges and prosecutors appointed after July 15th, demonstrates the sensitivity needed to be shown in this regard. The possible event in almost every law school must be determined, and the habit of bringing judges and prosecutors in to certain pressure groups and structures must be abandoned. Decisions such as intermediary, reconciliation and expertise should be carried out with the institutions of great importance at the time of justice, and the obstacles to the effective use of these institutions must be removed immediately. Honourable lawmakers, justice, equal treatment of everyone in a society, is provided for all rules in the same way as everyone else. In societies dominated by justice, individuals are always happy and feel safe. Justice is also important at the point when a citizen is at peace with his state. While July 15th is being fought by the traitorous coup attempt, Turkey must be dealt with carefully during the use of the powers of the state of emergency, which have been supported by the Grand National Assembly and supported by our party, the importance of justice in the fight against injustice must never be overlooked. In the fight against ا, especially the assessments that can make people feel unfair should be avoided, and the work and procedures that are conducted should be acted in accordance with the law. Any injustice in this process should never be ignored that the Turkish nation can reduce its faith in the fight against ▪. The injustices done in this framework must be dealt with quickly; the tolerance for power, which was once deceived by ا, should not be withheld from public employees or from the business in any neighborhood during AKP rule, or the same severe punishments should be applied to those responsible in power in the same way. With these feelings and thoughts, I wish this year's budget, especially the budget of our Ministry of Justice, to be a blessing to the beloved Turkish nation, the Veteran Assembly and you respected MPs, once again.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit03spe0120par0585	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0120par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now it's time for a speech on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. The first speaker is Ardahan MP Özturk Yilmaz. Your time is 16 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0121par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of our State Department. I salute the High Council. And on behalf of our country, we thank our foreign people, who have worked miserably all over the world. In the interest of discussing our foreign budget, I'd like to express my views on foreign matters. For one thing, some concepts are no longer used; the strategic depth of the strategic depth has become strategic blindness, as everyone knows; zero problems with neighbours have become a problem with everyone; multi-dimensional foreign policy has become a foreign policy with no dimension. So these concepts were thrown out. We need to talk about new things, but they're not there yet. It used to be a lot of use once, conscientious and human foreign policy. The war in Syria also revealed how unconscionable and ruthless these policies were. The European Union is our strategic partner in the European Union, and then who is the EU? We will go to the referendum if necessary to stop the negotiations. We're heading for a new opening in terms of expression. My brother Assad, then the murderer Esed, may later become my friend Assad, because things are moving fast. You know, in our foreign policy, relations with the European Union are really at the top of the most important issues. First, a lot of effort was made to start relations with the European Union. When the Treaty Framework Document was signed in 2005, the end of the negotiations would be open at that time. So this could take ten years, it could take 15 years, it could take 20 years. There was a second critical issue in the negotiating Framework Document, which could not have been foretold. I mean, even if you did all the negotiations, you couldn't predict the outcome, you couldn't become a member. In fact, this Framework Document was not a good document at the time, but we criticised it because it was a really difficult document when we looked at other countries that were negotiating. It was almost as if it was designed to complicate Turkey's membership, not to make Turkey a member, but then it was celebrated in the heart of Ankara, during the day, with fireworks. It was presented as if it were a great success. Twenty years ago, we were working to make sure that the sister republics in Central Asia could integrate into the European Atlantic institutions. Now, we're going to them and we're trying to make us a member of the company. Also, there's a lot of confusion about the Shanghai Co-operation Organization. They don't know what this organization is. It was an attempt to shut down the region of terrorism -- in a nail -- to suppress the Chinese Uygur Turks at the time, while Russia was then active -- to suppress Chechen diaspora -- and then it was fabricated. We're trying to join that organization now. There are no democratic countries in the organization. We're angry with the European Union, Brussels, and we're trying to anchor Shanghai. This, for one thing, is also about relations with Israel. As long as I'm on this mission, I can never think of anything good for Israel. The government threw away all these words. Why? Because with the agreement he brought, he approved the pardon for Israeli troops being exempted from judicial supervision in front of the AKP Group. So all the talk of Israel went to waste. You see, there was red line literature once, in 2003, in 2004, in 2006, in 2008, in 2010, there was always red line, even in 2015. ▪ Kirkuk is our red line. • Where is Kerkuk? Who's controlling it? Has anyone ever heard of Kerkuk? Always the red line turned into another line. Two: This is our red line in 2014 and 2015. Yes, the truth of Menbic has cast a yellow line shadow over your red line. If you go east of Afrin, it's our red line. What happened? At the same time, Minak Airport took your red line and threw it away. There's been a lot of big talk, but none of it was meant to be. Now, sir, in all this mayhem right now, there's a need to approach Israel and Russia because there's a jam outside. If only this need to approach was based on a rational basis, maybe Turkey could benefit from it, but it's not working. In Syria, because Russia shut down its airspace, we couldn't fly a plane for a long time, until we had an agreement on it, we brought in Project Turkic flow at 2:00 a.m. Basically, we've handed over all the advantages we can afford without getting paid. Now he's trying to start a new game, Turkey. We've already explained from this platform, we know that Operation Firat Shield has succeeded. But, we've always said that this military success would be put on a political basis and that if it can't be dealt with in that framework, it would be basically a military achievement, no political gain. Look, I want to talk to you about El Bab. We warned you earlier, you should have gone prepared when you went to El Bab. You see, our soldiers are becoming martyrs. Why? Because the Free Syrian Army that you sent to El Bab is basically built, edited, and reacts when you approach it for a long time to overthrow Assad. Also, on the other hand, we said that if you move to another area, you'll run into the NYD, and unfortunately you'll encounter the protection of America. These issues have not been observed much, and, in fact, we see that our warnings here have not been paid much attention. Now, I would like to point out that among all this mayhem, Cyprus is our most important concern. The Cyprus issue goes quietly, as if everything is normal, as if it were milky. But I want to explain some things to you: First of all, when we called it Operation Peace of Cyprus in 1974, we celebrated a victory. Now, we don't want this victory lost on the table in 2016. We're going to have some warnings about this, you listen, you don't listen. One: We support the comprehensive solution, the two parties equally based on political equality, of course, a two-community, comprehensive solution, of course we support the presence of Turkey's active and operational guarantee, so let's not have any doubt here, but we're looking at the statements made as a result of the latest talks in Mont Caper. Before the negotiations have ended, it has reduced the territory of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus to 29.2 per cent. The debate isn't over yet, and tomorrow when the Greeks leave, the only thing left to remember is 29.2, and there's still pressure to land. Where are they being given? If that happens, the entire area of Maras is closed, and even if there is a rule of the beautiful land, a large Greek population settles there, but some of the land of Nicosia is going away, and the Greeks have set eyes on Dipkarpaz. They want to take the absolute sovereignty of the KKTC in the name of the national park, if necessary, and give it to the common state, so they don't want the KKTC to have absolute sovereignty there. Now, that's not enough, they say: our population is 850,000, your population is 220,000 for the citizenship you gave us. By the way, why don't you give me 220 grand for citizenship, why don't you give me 500 grand? It's a negotiation, you delivered 220 grand, and he gladly took it and put it in his pocket. 220 grand. In 40 years, our population has been 220 grand. It says, clearly, in all negotiations of these things: your population is 220, our population 800,000. You want to control 54 percent of the coastline. You're going to reduce the coastline according to your population. What does that mean? Given the strategic location of the dipcarposis region, our major sea area, our coastal area, the link to Turkey, is significantly degraded. And then what happens? That's not enough. It's not enough. I also want to put up about 90 thousand Greek Cypriots from the south to the north. He says, 90 thousand, which is almost 35 to 36 percent, he brings the population from the south and puts it there. That's not enough, but I've got properties and goods. So, what do we do with them? They've collected them too, making $18 billion. You will also pay for them. We'll have an international conference if we have to, and we'll sort it out. So, what's the Alliance and the Guaranteed Agreement? They're clearly saying it. Look, there's an Indian here, I want to explain it. The Alliance and the Guaranteed Agreement... we say: "Don't leave this part of the Alliance Agreement at the end of these comprehensive negotiations." Because when you put the map out front, all your leverage on the map comes out. Then, when it comes to the Guaranteed and Alliance Agreement, when it is removed from the table, it will be that map that remains in your hands and in the hands of Rum. Don't do that. But, unfortunately, we're looking at it, and that's the last thing we're going to talk about in January, and it's important. And here, sir, how do we water Turkey's active and operational guarantee? They come to the point. Turkey can no longer be the active and operational guarantee of the entire island because, see, Greece doesn't want it. Greece doesn't want to get rid of Turkey anyway. Look, England doesn't want it either. England has its dominant bases on the island, and what does England have there? Part of the Guaranteed Agreement. The Guaranteed Agreement gives up its power, but guarantees its sovereign bases. So, what do we have besides the Guaranteed Agreement? How can we trust these two sides and negotiate the Guaranteed Agreement? How can we trust them? How can we leave this at the end? Some parts of the KKTC say, sir, we've been tired of solutions, solutions, solutions, solutions for years. Almost some of them have reached the point of view of Turkey as hostile. I'm saying, if you see it, brother. For your sake, we don't have to deliver anything. If there's a real solution, we're there. Or do we just stay quiet because you don't like it? And in this regard, the government must take this matter very carefully. This one's not coming back. You don't get what you give. The one across the street doesn't mean well. If he meant well, when there hasn't been a solution for so long... they brought water from 40 creeks so they wouldn't give 259m euros in financial aid to the KKTC. How do they mean well? What do you trust? It's absolutely necessary to deny them, these extreme demands. And we're looking at all the conflict issues, and you're looking at the state of all the conflict issues, and you're looking at the land, and you're giving it away, and it's getting rid of it, or it's not getting into the property, or it's not taking the population, but it's giving it land, or it's taking the population. We're giving land, we're taking population, and we're backing down on property. We really want to know if we were defeated in 1974 or if we were victorious. I'm very clear about the Greek issue: this is sensitive, and we will follow it as the Republican People's Party. Don't let anyone try to introduce us to you because they don't want a solution or a solution or something. This is a nationally sensitive issue, and I'm telling you, there are other accounts here: we're threatening not to enter the European Union, good. We threaten America. So, what's the reason for this rashness and all this pressure, what's the rush? Why are we going so far? We had to be one step ahead. Why are you in the front? Prove what? Didn't we prove the Annan Plan? They rejected with 76 per cent, and we accepted with 65 per cent. Is that what anyone who hasn't seen him will see? Prove what? Since we call it national politics, now that we're nationalized, we'll all be nationalized. Nobody's gonna fool anybody. We also call on our brothers and sisters in the KKTC: We are with you, but know this, that we will never take him to the castle, as if some circles do not want solutions, as if they do not exist. We're not going to learn from them how government governance works. They're the ones who sometimes surrender their personalities and national sensibilities. We don't deliver this. I'm sorry. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0122par0028	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. According to 60, he has a request for a word in place. Dear fellow, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0123par0033	Mr. Bozdağ, late last night the office of Yeniçağ daily in İstanbul was printed by 25 or 30 people. So far, no one on this hostile team has been caught. As a journalist and a member of parliament, I ask you to be sensitive about this. On the other hand, the daily Marine Mail newspaper in Kayseri has been raided by Mr. Secretary of State for doing a report on Minister of Environment Özhaseki, and the newspaper has been collected illegally. Based on what is the collection of this newspaper? I'd like you to be sensitive about that, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0124par0036	Thank you, Mr. Yfriend. 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Statistical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account The President's Office of the Gate Area [[Continue]] 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) BUILDING BUILDINGS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2015 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Academy of Justice 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2015 Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the second speaker was İstanbul MP Aykut Erdoğdu. Mr. Erdoğdu, your time is 16 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0125par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the state planning agency and the budgets of the Turkish Statistical Agency. On this occasion, I salute you all. The State Planning Agency, one of the best institutions in the Republic of Turkey, one of the best bureaucrats in the Republic of Turkey, was shut down by the AKP government and turned over to the Ministry of Development, and the entire collection of that institution was unfortunately erosioned in this way. The State Planning Agency is an institution that must plan development plans, medium-term plans, annual programmes, economics and social sectors in Turkey. Now, let's take a look at the economic sectors in Turkey. What is the status of the economic sectors in Turkey? Let's look at energy. What's the most important ingredient in energy? Natural gas. One of the most important entries in our economy is natural gas. We get natural gas from other countries. There are two basic issues, one price, and the other amount. This AKP government has changed two agreements in Russia and Azerbaijan, and natural gas prices have nearly doubled against Turkey. These two agreements, these two agreements with Russia and Azerbaijan, cost the Republic of Turkey about $25 billion, friends, 25 billion additional bills. This misery in the natural gas, this evil, it's not just the price, it's the amount of parable. We've made a commitment to other countries about how much natural gas we're going to take. These commitments were bad before the AKP, but they made them so bad that we started paying for the gas we couldn't get because they made a commitment. We can't buy gas, we pay for it, and when it comes to $4-5 billion, what do they do? This time they came back to produce electricity from natural gas plants to draw this natural gas. And today, for 20 to 22 cents, we produce electricity from natural gas, and they return from thermal plants, from public thermal plants, and electricity prices produced from natural gas and gas prices went up rapidly. Another area in energy where we've been injured is coal. I've been talking about it here for months, about irrefutable corruption. It wasn't just me. Here, this, look, is the Court's report from the Turkish Taşkomuru Foundation. These are the Court reports of the Turkish Coal Company. The court spoke of these things, and spoke out of fear, and told them by turning them into birds. The findings in the reports that he turned into a bird are clouding his conscience. Look, they're selling coal for 30 to 40 liras to the government for $200-250. Whose coal is it? The government. How did they get it from the government? Corruption. Without bidding. And when they made the tender, they made corrupt tenders and handed over our coal mines to the allies. And then again, from the coal mines that the state passed over, without contract, when the tender was made, there was corruption, and coals were bought at exorbitant prices, and they kept these corrupt coals, and we distribute them to poor families. There has been corruption in this country during the distribution of coal to poor families -- we've told it a dozen times -- and it continues to happen. Because they can't break the coal mafia, dear friends. Then what's with the coal mafia? He turns around, becomes a worker killer. In Zonguldak, in Zonguldak, in Ermenek, in Şırnak, the mafias of coal, their coal mafias slaughter workers in front of us, they hire workers and transfer money to the workers-killing company again. The decay has reached this extent. The housing and zoning area is a very important sector. There's a Public Housing Authority that's been made a fortress of corruption, dear friends. They have two methods, either a bid or a share, according to Public Contraction Act 4734. When they tender with contract number 4734, they write a condition. Is he a supporter? He's doing what he wants, making huge profits. A hostile businessman took it? ▪ How can you not do so according to this requirement? They bring down these opposing businessmen, then they re-integrate the unfinished project. They keep reports that 70 percent of the work is finished, 20 percent of the work is finished. They pass over it to its exorbitant supporters. And they found a product-sharing model, you'd think they were all inventors. Yeah, it's a construction contract for the floor you know. Who owns the land for the share of the proceeds? The government. Who's gonna build the building? He's a supporter. In order to reduce the state's share, they reduce the prices of the most valuable land of the public to one-quarters, they double the construction costs, and the next thing you know, the land went 30 percent in Ataşehir, and they went 35 percent in Ataköy, all with 70 percent in it. I mean, if there's going to be 100 homes, what's it like to have 70 plots of land for the owner, 30 of them for the builder? There are 100 apartments going up, 70 to the side, 30 to the state. They're shearing those 30, they're carving them, they're doing something... where'd TOKI get to today? TOKI has reached a sinking point. The charges against you have come down your throat. There's no construction costs, no taxes, no land costs, it's been dropped from everything; TOKI has reached a sinking point today. The zoning practices in the municipalities are terrible. One minute you're looking at Istanbul, the next you're looking at Ankara, it's ridiculous; we can't get out of traffic. The opening of the green fields to the housing development, the 35-story rights to the five-storey areas, the enrichment over them, and then the silence of those followers when they slaughtered the workers in the elevators... for a thousand dollars. They passed an urban transmutation law. This, in the name of the accomplice, has turned into the poor squatter's urban extortion law. This is how Istanbul is practiced today. What about privatisation, mob-type, looting, burglar-type privatizations? What did they tell us when they privatized it? We said, "Don't, don't privatize basic public services." What do they call it when they privatize you? The quality of service will increase, employment will increase, prices will go down, competition will increase, the world will be paradise, Turkey will be rich... Has the quality of service gone up? Look at the electricity, look at the natural gas, it's a power failure, they're not coming in three days. Did the prices go down? We use the world's highest basic public services prices based on our income. Has the employment increased? Look, they were working with 60,70,000 people before they were privatized, and they landed with 25,000 today. Did the prices go down? Which one did it come true? Didn't you deceive this country? Didn't you cheat this country while selling this country's national fortune to strangers? The Privatisation Act says that when something is privatized, you have to explain the value report. The undying orphan has the right here, so know his value, sell it accordingly. Whose evaluation report has been announced, Your Honor? Has the evaluation report of TELEKOM been released? Has the evaluation report been released? How much is the TECEL worth? Look, how much is the TECEL worth? We had one alcohol factory. They sold it to a fellow businessman for $285 million. How much did the fellow businessman sell the factory he bought for $285 million for nine months later? Sold for $1 billion, $1 billion. In what business do you put $300 million in nine months and make $1 billion? It's cheating the government; it's cheating the people; it's robbing the people. If you're looking for betrayal, look around. And then a year and a half later, he sold it to a stranger for $2.5 billion. If this factory was worth $2.5 billion, why did you sell it for $300 million? Isn't it a shame about these people? Now change the tattoo. You say. Let your men of business break it down, and your businessmen break it down. Why are the poor people ruining it? Now, they've sold TELEKOM. TELEKOM is Turkey's highest tax-paying institution. Four billion dollars -- four quadrillion dollars in old money -- gross profits. What was the tax rate when the TELEKOM was sold? 30%. He had to pay $1.2 billion in taxes at $4 billion. They sold it, and six months later the tax dropped to 20 percent. Yeah, it costs 400 trillion in a year. If you sell it, the tax will remain the same. Sell it when it falls to 20 percent. You sold it for 25 years of income. Ten quadrillion dollars, 10 billion damages to this country. Isn't it a shame you're paying the Hariri family 10 quadrillion dollars for these poor people? It's a shame, isn't it? When you sell this TELEKOM, did you say that we're going to put $20 per subscriber at a fixed price? He has 20 million subscribers, 20 lira is 400 trillion when you put in a fixed price; isn't that a shame? Do you have the right to rob like this? No one's gonna tell you this? You couldn't sell TELEKOM, you hired it because you couldn't sell it according to the Constitution. Real estates of the rented TELEKOM are being sold in front of you. How can you remain silent? How is that a conscience? It's a leased real estate. Are you able to sell a rental house, which the buyers brought in, selling their land in front of your eyes, does it sleep, Treasure? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Friends, the State Railways... they're doing something so awful on the State Railways. They're bidding, say, 1 quadrillion, 10 times the price of 20 work pens, 1 in ten. He says, "I couldn't do it." He's made 10 times the profit, and they can't do it when it comes to 1 in ten, so let's see the supply tender. A project, a billion-dollar project, goes up to $4 billion, goes to these fellow businessmen. Who's the fellow businessman? Ankara's 8. High Criminal Court and 11th. The High Criminal Court has a final ruling in the Supreme Court. I'm a keeper. As they say, those conservative businessmen paid off prostitutes to bureaucrats. It's not me, it's a court order. So disgusting, so disgusting, so shameful crimes have been sentenced to a court order. Where are those fellow businessmen? They're still selling public tenders, still getting public bids. These businessmen, who say, "I am a guardian of prostitutes," who only know their profits, will bribe conservative bureaucrats, and then take public tenders. It's a shame! It's a sin, it's a sin, it's a sin.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0126par0097	Do you have any evidence, that's all...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0125par0098	It's a shame! Shame on you! There's a court order, don't object.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0126par0099	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0125par0100	There's a court order; it's your responsibility, you'll see, you'll find out.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0126par0101	See if you have any evidence when you're yelling so loud!
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0125par0102	There's a court order, it's been confirmed by the Supreme Court, and there's footage of him at the hotel.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0126par0103	I think you're slandering me, slandering me!
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0125par0104	Don't argue with me.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0126par0105	You're slandering me!
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0125par0106	Open up, look at the court order. Of course...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0126par0107	Look here. You're slandering me, not so much!
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0125par0108	Look, brother, you're making up a lie. We've seen the last of those who say, "Don't go there." There's a court order. We call it, okay?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0126par0109	Okay, take it off.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0125par0110	There's a court order, so don't be a partisan.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0127par0111	Well, that's a court order, then. There's no point in talking about it and shouting it out loud.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0125par0112	We've come to their mega-project. They're doing a mega project. The mega-project is normally a bankrupt government project. A state collects taxes, collects taxes, goes, invests like lions, opens its facility, sells it or gives its people free. "What do they call a mega project? It's a do-and-do project. He's not gonna pay for it himself, he's gonna cut off his ribbon, he's gonna bang the next government. What's he doing with the do-and-do? Third airport, third bridge, third whatchamacallit...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0128par0113	Tell me if you're against it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0125par0114	Who's doing it? It's not you, it's generations to come. Who are you to build a third airport? It's obvious what you're doing. You lowered the quota difference, put in $2 billion. Look at the hungry court report, you're a congressman, and I'm a liar?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0128par0115	No, say it, I say.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0125par0116	Didn't you take down the difference in jeans? They're lowering the jeans. They were auctioned off from 100 yards to 60 meters after the denim-different tender. Who's got $2 billion in their pocket? It's in the pool people's pockets. What are the pool people doing? From there, insult the opposition, slander the opposition. Which ones does he do? Those columns, all those columns, they all have bribe money under them. I thought this was the third airport to be rented for 25 years. They don't hand over the place for 25 years so it doesn't start for 25 years. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is going to the place where the location is not delivered. He's laying the groundwork. Oh, man, there's no place to be. Isn't that rude? Would the foundation of a non-reported project be laid down, friends? Is it laid? The public doesn't know that. Why? Because the corrupts got their hands on TVs, newspapers. We can't explain it. Even when we told them on the stand, they even shut down Turkey's Grand National Assembly TV. And where did this economic situation come from, dear friends? The Republic of Turkey has been destroyed. The Republic of Turkey is colonized. The Republic of Turkey is occupied by foreigners. Our most strategic sectors, from TELEKOM, have crossed over to the banks and are in debt. Here's the number of the Ministry of Development. We owe $422 billion. How do we pay? Normally, TELEKOM would pay. You know, the 80-year-old government of the republic that you didn't like, with the money of TELEKOM, we were paying from the treasure. Who's got TELOM? Hariri. Moreover, when Hariri has sunk this TELEKOM, tomorrow's TELEKOM will have to take it back in debt, and I warn them from here. How were we supposed to pay $422 billion? I'll take care of it. Who's got it? He moved to a company called Texaco. Who's got the banks? American, Japanese, British, 63 percent of the stock market, foreign, poor butchers and barbers, are you going to pay $422 billion? All the funds in the world are being recalled. Those days are over. And the dollar came for three and a half, and it went to four and a half, and it went to five, because of you. You try to coffin the Republic of Turkey. How do you coffin it? It's like you've done a great job for 13 years, and after 13 years, you're trying to do a great job on your own. You'll bring the Constitution. Friends, the Republic of Turkey is being coffind. The results of education in the Republic of Turkey are more dangerous than these economic consequences; we have gone so far back. What do you think you're doing? I don't know who wrote the fate of a nation -- I don't know who wrote you, I guess, I won't -- are you going to give it to this, to live, to run, to judge? Which one are you good at? You're on trial, you're up to your neck in corruption, there's a budget hearing in law enforcement, there's not 10 MPs. We're gonna take all these people's 2,000-year-old, 3,000-year-old savings, give them to one person with a Constitutional arrangement? It's like you've done so well, we'll give it to one person. We will not allow the coffin of the Republic of Turkey, we will not let the country of the Republic of Turkey be divided, we will not let our brotherhood be harmed. We won't let you divide this country. We're going to want to live in this country together, equal, free, brotherly. It's a shame you can't do that to this country. In all the work you've done so far, you've recommended our common feelings. Friends, the religion of Islam has been damaged, the religion of Islam. Look at the way I talk. Look who's doing the damage. Is there any illicit food in Islam, right to eat, to eat, to discriminate, to look with the evil eye, to slander, to create media with unlawful money, to silence his opponents? If you believe in yourself so much, let us compete equally. Members of parliament, the situation of the Republic of Turkey is very difficult. We're all members of this nation. I understand we have party discipline, but what I'm asking is that the Republic of Turkey is not getting better. Please, for the sake of this people, for the sake of this country, let no one place their conscience, and let us save the country with our consciences. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0129par0123	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0130par0124	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0129par0125	Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0130par0126	Mr. President, the preacher has just made a very formal and incriminating statement in his speech. I want to answer to them.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0129par0127	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz. I promise you two minutes before I start picking on you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0130par0131	Mr. President, when you were just listening to the preacher, I really, really couldn't believe what country you were drawing, what picture you were painting. First of all, I'd like to suggest that he's made a lot of claims here, which are very prudish and accusatory and indictive. I say this in particular: If you know, if you have documentation, documents, information, whatever, I first recommend that you file a criminal complaint with the prosecution, if there is anything concrete about this matter.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0131par0133	There's no proof of bribery, there's no record of what you've done.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0130par0134	But you can't go out here and make a decision about all of this, about all the work that's been done, about corruption against the government so far, about the tenders, privatisation processes that have been made, not about these things, but about the documents that you know about them, about the prosecution, as if you've done the prosecutor's place and the trials, as if you've decided to do yourself here, this negative approach to all the things that are being done across Turkey, especially, we can't accept that you're making this kind of perception. Prove all your claims, or you'll be the mufti yourself. The unofficial statements you just said, even if they were, even if they were in the file, even if they were the past, I want to make it very clear that I don't think that you, especially from your mouth, speak on this stand, on this stand, on the nation's stand. You talked about coffining Turkey, putting it in coffins, and talking about not dividing Turkey. Today, in the words of our founding president, Mr. President and ourselves, we say this every day: one nation, one flag, one country. And while we're making all these emphasises, I'd like to make it very clear to our beloved nation that this is a huge injustice to the nation that has made its destiny to live together and to what we say. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0132par0139	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0133par0140	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0132par0141	Mr. Erdoğdu, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0133par0142	Mr. Speaker accused me of mufterism in his speech and picked on me.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0134par0143	You'll be the inspector. I said, prove it. I said.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0133par0144	I want to answer according to Article 69.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0134par0145	Sir, I need to clarify this statement. I said, "You have to prove it, otherwise it's unfair to create such perception with your statements here against these people." I told the prosecution to press charges with their information and documents, which is not a matter of teasing or explaining. I'd like to express your appreciation.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0133par0147	Sir, it's an open taunt to call a man an inspector. The ordinance is clear.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0134par0148	Severe insults are kept in all speeches, statements.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0135par0149	That's offensive, that's not insulting, is it?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0136par0150	Mr. Erdoğdu, come in. I'll give you my word for two minutes, but don't give me any more trouble. The last word is yours.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0135par0152	Oh, come on, be fair. It's not like that.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0136par0153	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0137par0155	Mr. President, it's not mufterial to say what's going on. Mr. İlnur Hanım -- I don't want to be rude -- to a female MP -- I'll send you the verdicts of the severe criminal courts in Ankara. And my advice is: I've been called a lot of inspectors, and I've answered them all with their papers. Second issue: If you have such claims, go to justice. They say. I took the coal report, gave it to justice. Even though there was so much open corruption, there was no trial, and then they arrested the person who didn't press charges. They arrested the judge as a prosecutor, but that judge was sent to HSYK, and the Supreme Court as a reward for the corruption of coal. Go to justice. You mean, right? Yes, you're right, let's go to justice. Have you sent your four ministers to justice, have they gone to justice?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0138par0159	It has nothing to do with the statements you just made.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0137par0160	Is he gone? Mrs. Firstnur, I beg you, go to Justice. You say -- we've seen your practice -- have you sent four ministers to justice, since you trust justice so much? And do you think you've left any justice to go on? You know why? This is for your evil. If there was any justice left to go, these vile corruptions wouldn't have gone so far, and take it to justice. You know what you're saying? Do you know who did the operation that these prostitutes were being bribed to do? It was Hanefi Hunter. What happened after Hanefi Hunter did this operation? You took a right-wing police director like Hanefi Avcı, put him in a revolutionary organization called the Revolutionary Headquarters, and you locked him up. Who threw it? Your ex-partners threw it out. You're the last party he needs to talk about justice for. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0139par0164	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Statistical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account The President's Office of the Gate Area [[Continue]] 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) BUILDING BUILDINGS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2015 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Academy of Justice 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2015 Now, the third speaker is Gaziantep MP Akif Ekici. Your time is six minutes, Mr. Ekici, please.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0140par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a commitment to the GAP Administration budget. I salute the General Assembly and the people who watch us at the head of television. My fellow speaker just gave you a very good summation, he explained. Madam President of the AKP Group said, "Go to the judge." In 2010, I was a member of the CIT Commission. No sound in 2010-2016. So it's a classic expression, you know two things, one of them is: go to the judge, go to the prosecutor. Second of all: didn't we get 50 percent of the vote? You don't know anything else, you just say it and pass it on.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0141par0210	You guys go ahead and say it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0140par0211	Dear lawmakers, dear friends, the GAP has been developing in this country's imaginary form for 27 years, but we have to open 1,800,000 hectares as a irrigation site, and we haven't been able to get close to that number. We didn't even get close to that number, let alone catch that number. From 2003 to 2015, 259,000 hectares of irrigation have been opened. So nothing's been done in your era for thirteen years. We've increased the GAP budget. You're saying it's true, you're trying to increase it, but you're transferring the unemployment insurance money to the GAP, but you're not spending it on GAPP. What are you spending it on? You're spending it on jobs that bring construction, double roads, and they've got cash in them. Because that's your general nature. Dear friends, it's not just the GAP, it's not going well in our country. I'm asking the government, I don't know if there's anyone in the government, and these halls are always empty: don't you say to your president, your prime minister, where are we taking this country? Why are we throwing it into the ring of fire? Are these people worthy of this? Why do you see the response? Why don't you say to your headman who gave you the instruction? Dear friends, these things are over, the ministry is over, the legislature is over. We'll live in this country. How will you face your grandchildren tomorrow? Why am I saying this? I'll explain in a minute. Why am I telling you, why am I so full of it?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0142par0213	The General Assembly is this way, General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0140par0214	As a citizen of the state of the Republic of Turkey, I am full of it as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0143par0215	We've had our services.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0140par0216	Don't talk nonsense, don't talk nonsense. I don't talk to people who talk nonsense.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0143par0217	You're talking nonsense. Call the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0144par0218	Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0140par0219	Dear friends, you have emerged as a process of peace, a process of resolution; you have made the PKK, you have set up mobile courts, you have claimed the Habur shows, you have taken the authority to operate from the military, you have told the governors to ignore terrorist activities. During that time, ditchs were dug into cities, bombs, mines were laid, and then we saw the state of the southeast. You told ISIS that he was angry. You said that his bloody actions were rebellious. You had his treatments done in Turkey, you gave him logistics and ammunition support.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0144par0221	Who gave you that paper?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0145par0222	Don't lie and say the wrong thing.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0140par0223	In my city of Gaziantep, you have treated and sent terrorists to fight again.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0144par0224	You didn't translate well.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0140par0225	On July 15th, he threw a bomb at the parliament, rained bullets on his people, and you said that whatever he wanted, the congregation we gave him deceived us. You said, "The government has infiltrated the state." Neither did the congregation deceive you, nor did the government infiltrate you. You put the congregation in the government, you, you planted it. You put the congregation in the government.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0146par0227	The congregation is inside you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0140par0228	See, in the indictment of the roof, the President -- then the Prime Minister -- sends thanks across the ocean; for the 2010 referendum, the organization moved too far within the state. So, in 2010, you gave the state a golden platter to the organization and thanked it. What is this foolishness, my dear friends? If you can't see that, what else can I tell you?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0147par0229	Then why are you clapping for the prisoners?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0148par0230	You still support it, still.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0140par0231	Your assistants, your mayors, your appointed governors, your lawmakers, are said to be your ministers of the Lock.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0147par0232	Tell your supervisor.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0140par0233	You're making a scene because he's a CHP consultant who's been arrested because he's been arrested. Don't be shy. You'll have to tell CHP. How can you be so careless, dear friends?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0149par0234	You say the same thing as a parrot.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0150par0235	When you criticize the president...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0149par0236	Say something new, like a parrot, you're always saying the same thing over there.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0151par0237	The President says for this structure, which you see as one of the different ways going to the same range, what is the same range, my dear friends? What is the same range? What is the same range? Explain, somebody come out, explain. We're going to the same range, we're going to the same range.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0149par0239	Why didn't you throw the party council members out of the party? Why didn't you throw out the members of the party council?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0151par0240	That's the range of the AKP and the range of the AKP, my dear friends. But as long as the CHP exists, you will take no steps to divide this country, no dreams will come true. If you've come to destroy the Republic, it's not going to happen, you know that here, you know that here.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0149par0241	As long as the CHP exists, the opposition will continue. As long as you're in that mindset, you'll go on like this.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0151par0242	My dear friends, why do you say "17-25 miles"? What is 17-25 miles? What were you, all of you before 17-25 miles? Is that what you're admitting?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0152par0244	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0151par0245	What are you saying? What is December 17th-25th? Explain to our people what is December 17th-25th, explain to us. What is December 17th-25th, my dear friends?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0153par0246	There's nothing to explain if you still haven't learned. Haven't you learned yet? Didn't you see what happened? You still haven't seen it?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0151par0247	Answer this, answer this, you can't. Why were you together until December 17th or 25th? When they found out about your corruption, when they found out about your corruption, they started looking at your seat...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0153par0248	The people say you said it. That's what he says.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0151par0249	That's when you showed up, that's when you showed up...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0153par0251	That's what they say.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0151par0252	...you left because of the movement. Now you want to turn this country over to other sects.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0153par0253	You're arm in arm with the guys, you say the same thing.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0151par0254	As long as this country is the Republican People's Party, you will not be able to divide it or surrender it to another cult. Other cults have no chance of living in this country, my dear friends.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0154par0256	Mr. Ekici, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0151par0257	You will know your place, you will know your place.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0155par0258	You know your place.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0151par0259	First of all, I'm going to tell the ministers that you're going to behave yourself.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0155par0260	Learn to speak on the stand.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0151par0261	There's money in the market. There's a lot of money going around, and there's a lot of shopping going around. Whose name did you print it on? You printed it in the name of the person.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0156par0262	Ask the party councilman about all of them. Ask the party councilman.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0151par0263	Look, it says it right here, it says it. It says here, look.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0157par0264	Mr. Ekici...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0151par0265	It's written, my dear friends, that the money is in the market. You'll know your place.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0157par0267	Thank you, Mr. Planter.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0158par0268	Ask the general president's advisor.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0157par0269	Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0159par0270	Mr. President, for the record, The preacher just gave a very provocative speech, specifically saying that we have a problem with the republic. We said at every opportunity that the EC PARTY had no problems with the republic, with the regime, that the regime was called the republic, that there had to be an argument about the system. It is as if we are being made to look as if we are in a position against the unity, unity, unbreakable integrity of this country; even this perception is being carried out willingly. I'd like to point out in particular that we're rejecting all of this. The regime is called the republic; it's a system debate. We don't say one country, one nation, one flag, one state.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0160par0272	There's also a single language there, Mr. Eyüsöz, the only language, don't miss it. Why are you missing the tongue?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0159par0273	Today, the significance of that statement is...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0160par0274	He's not four, he's five, he's not four, he's five, he's five. Why are you missing the tongue?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0159par0275	We've been saying that against those who try to divide Turkey. Representatives of this Parliament must also use the language that controls actions and words to stand behind this statement.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0161par0277	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0162par0278	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0161par0279	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0162par0280	I don't understand any accusation of being an enemy of the Republic to the members of the Justice and Development Party. Because the Republic is everywhere. The Republic is in Iran, there is in Libya, there is everywhere. It's the secular quality of the republic that makes sense to us, and it's the property of the state of law that makes sense to us. And when we look at it like this, we'll find it in the morning if we try to say what some of the founders of the Justice and Development Party say about secularism and the nature of the republic. I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0163par0284	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Now the fourth speaker is Sivas MP Ali Akyıldız. Your time is six minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0164par0289	Mr. President, I salute you all with respect, love, love, love, love. Before I started speaking, last year, when I spoke to Mr. Development Minister about the DAP project in budget talks, I told Mr. Development Minister that it was not right for the Justice and Development Party to remove Sivas On behalf of the people of Sivas, as a representative of the people of Sivas, I thank them for retaking Sivas. Dear lawmakers, we have launched the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian Centres for Attraction, covering 23 provinces as a government, during the budget presentation of our Minister of Finance here. We've split up 12 billion resources. We've been able to fund 10 billion of this resource directly into investments and 2 billion dollars to the real sector, including agriculture, as part of the charm center programme. I also care that the government separates these 23 provinces as the center of attraction and incentives, and I think it will contribute. In this context, it is very important that our Sivas (Sivas) be included in this programme of encouragement, including the fact that our Sivas (Sivas) is similar to 23 as well as the number of migrations and economic indicators given by our Sivas (Sivas), if you can't fully include Sivas (Sivas), at least, the investments and technological investments in the newly established region of Ironag Organised Industry are taken into account. Again, I recommend that our Sivas be taken into consideration from here. Again, I read here exactly what our Minister of Finance said: during our governments, we took special interest in our villages' investments in roads, infrastructure and sewers. For the first time in this period, our previously neglected villages have faced a comprehensive investment move. Now, when I listened to this conversation, I was a little disappointed. I wonder what country he's talking about. It sounds to me like he's talking about the Republic of Turkey, but I'm wondering if there's a Sivas in this country he's talking about. Now, the population of Sivas (Sivas) -- you're always referring to 2002 -- was 75,000 in 2000, and at the point where we came 14 years later, the population of Sivas (Sivas) was reduced to 600,000. A large part of this migration took place in the countryside. Our poet says: "There's no road, there's no water, there's no road, there's no road, if I'm not a doctor, if I'm ignorant, it's the truth. I'm crazy in my village." Now, as the poet said, the inhabitants of the villages of Sivas were considered almost insane. Why? Yeah, no way, no water... since you're not leaving a living environment, Sivas is still migrating. Now, look, I'm going to read official numbers from here, and I'm going to say in official numbers that Sivas is the first place in Turkey as a settlement of 1,846 with 1,233 village centers and 613 merra. Now, there are only 705 villages in Sivas, so the rest of them don't have asphalt; ha, there are a thousand witnesses, there are no roads. I'll give you another number, these are official numbers, your figures: Sivas' total road network, not asphalt, is a total of 7.660 km; the non-alphalt road of Sivas is 4.330 km. So you're always bragging about the road. There's 60 percent of Sivas, we've given up asphalt, there's no way. Is this the path you make, the path you boast about? Now, the total money you sent to Sivas County Special Administration this year is 135 billion. Now, you've devoted only $28,500,000 of this 135 billion to the countryside. What do you think we're gonna do with the money you're saving for this countryside? ▪ We will do drinking water, asphalt, sewers, agricultural irrigation, key hardwood, art structures, healing and repair. Now, I've given up all of this, and with this $28,500,000, you'll only make it 400 kilometers. Put your hand on your conscience, does such a Sivas deserve to be evacuated by a Sivas, which has been destroyed in terms of settlement in Turkey for the 1st and 14th year period of AKP rulings, forced to give migration and because their villages have not been served? I'm out of time, there's a lot to talk about, but it's not enough for six minutes. I suggest you put at least 135 billion more next to the 135 billion dollars you've sent to the government, and you have a conscience, and we'll make a little more way to Sivas. After that, get up and say, "We made our way." Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you're right. Why? Even if you do not serve Sivas, Sivas gives you 70 percent of the vote. You're wrong if you're looking for Sivas' vote in the bag because we get votes and we don't serve. Don't look at the 600,000 population of Sivas. The population of Sivas is over 7 million inhabitants of Turkey. So if you remove Sivas, Sivas will remove you from the chest as soon as possible. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0165par0305	Thank you, Mr. White Star. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, fifth speaker, Edirne MP Mr. Okan Gaytancıoğlu. Your time is six minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0166par0311	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the budget of Turkey's largest irrigation investment after the Gap. I'm curious how many of the AKP's MPs are here. Lift your finger. I'll say, but we're not teachers. And is there any of Niğde, of Nevşehir, of Karaman, of Yozgat?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0167par0313	There's the Minister from Karaman.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0168par0314	Minister Mersin MP, we have nothing to do with Karaman.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0166par0315	Because it covers eight provinces. Where are those MPs? We're having a conversation about them. There's no one here. How many of you are there? 316. How many of you are there now? There's not 20 of you. We're talking about an important irrigation investment, where are you? Anyway... My dear Istanbul MP friend Aykut Erdoğdu has just told me how TEKEL was pulled. I'd like to add something to that. They had $100 million in grapes in stock as they were being sold for a dime, and they were being sold for a dime. I'm gonna have to tell you this, too. Now, this irrigation project is very important. Why? Water is very important to agriculture, we want to change the face of the region. Yes, water is very important to Turkey. Here, there is a confluence of water poured into the Mediterranean Plain, and there is a flow of 700 million cubic metres of water that flows in vain to the Plain of Conium. There's nothing running yet, though. Where's the money going? We all know where the money goes, it goes to a lot of interest. It's a good project, of course we support it because watery agriculture is very important. Look what our farmer's doing. He's opening 36,000 leaky wells in the area to get the water out. That's an official number, but we've been informed that there are 50,55,000 escaped wells. So he wants to drain the water, citizen, we have to end this investment as soon as possible. Other than that, I looked into it, it used to be 15 to 20 years ago, when water was coming out of 20 meters and water was coming out of 200 meters. So water is important to the region. He wants to produce a manufacturer, but you can't get the water out, you don't invest. Speaking of which, we've been through the ages for ten years. You say, "But our farmer, our worker, our pensioner, everyone is leaving the countryside, the countryside is empty." What does the farmer want to do? What the farmer wants is to farm sugar beets. Because sugar beets agriculture is very important to Turkey, very important to the region. The number of sugars in the region is high from what we call beets. Well, let the manufacturer make money, let him. We have good institutions, but what are you doing? You're putting quotas on our own farmer. We imported the white sugar we needed in February this year as 80,000 tons, imported it with zero customs. In particular, in my district, there is one of the first factories of the Republic, the Alpullian Sugar Factory, closed. How can it be closed, why don't you make it? Because you don't have a sugar policy. In 2006, this government didn't even issue a price in sugar beets. Now you're going to say, "We've explained." See what year you've announced, and you don't even know it. You have announced the price of 2017, there is no price in 2016. The elder brother will tell you in a moment. Yeah, you don't have a sugar policy. What's in your sugar policy? There's starch-based sugar. Without the government, you immediately started negotiations in 2002 and gave the sugar quota in Turkey to starch-based sugar quota at 10%. Then you raised it to 15 percent by raising it to 50 percent by the Council of Ministers. I mean, what is it? 15 per cent of every sugar consumed in Turkey will be starch-based sugar. Yeah, look, our citizen, our farmer, he wants to get paid for his hard work, he wants to produce sugar beets. Yesterday we discussed the budget of the Department of Agriculture. Why do we import animals? Here, we're inefficient. You've left our ceremonies to the TOKI, so let's go. So, how are the bait cheap? Let the animals eat melas, let them eat beets and beets, let the sugar factories work. Let's run these factories, not shut them down. Let's open the Alps, and let's really run the Alps. Let's get our other sugar plants to high capacity. Let this country produce, let it create employment when it produces. So, if the purpose of this project is to hire the region, we support this project, but why don't you open up a little bit of your mouth to this project. Stop making your followers rich. You're always supporting big business. Yesterday -- of course, time was not enough, and our questions were not answered -- you say: "We will pass through the age of animalism, we will support businesses over 500. Should small businesses shut down and go away? Have them all migrate from village to town? Should they come to Istanbul? Should they come to Ankara? Should they come to Izmir? Look, I want to tell you something else: there are biscuits factories in Karaman, but where do they get the wheat? In Karaman, wheat farming is not even done enough; it is made from other places all the time. Well, you're always unplanned. And when I say that, you get mad at us. I salute the House.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0169par0327	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. Sixth speaker, Mr. Ugur Bayraktutan of Artvin. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0170par0331	Mr. President, I salute the MPs of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk at the beginning of my words. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I have been promised the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's budget. Once again, I salute your high council. Mr. Secretary, if he puts down the phone and listens to us, I'm going to talk about some interesting things. Look, I'd like to share a few sentences of the Court report on the DOCAP, which says: "The East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration does not have a strategic plan for 2015. Look how interesting: the performance program for performance information has not been available. The 2015 administrative report has not yet been published. (Do I need to tell you anything else, dear friends?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0171par0336	It's all clear.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0170par0337	It's obvious, plain, simple. So there's no way there's corruption. I took seven provinces in the DOCAP, not all of them, including the slap, and I just spoke to our congressman. I've got the figures on Artvin, Rize, Tripoli, Giresun, the Army, and the Silver House. My dear friends, 15 years ago, the population in these provinces was around 3 million,150,000, so there were 3,150,000 people living in this geography when you came to power, Mr. Secretary, we've now lost almost 700,000 people. Who stole them? Someone took it away. There's also a problem with lawmakers in the provinces. What's this? Look, Tripoli had eight deputies in the 2002 elections earlier -- I have friends here who are members of Tripoli -- two of whom are gone, no friends. The army has seven MPs, down to five, and two have gone from there. Dear Bektaşoglu was here, and Giresun had five deputies, and he went down to four. There were seven members of the slap, down to five, my dear friends. We're wondering who took these. So if everything were to go well in the Black Sea, if it were wonderful, Mr. Secretary, we probably wouldn't have to face such a situation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I said something about the Lifeguard Tunnel here last night, dear friends, the Minister gave an interesting answer. On October 29, 2010, I am the mayor of my party, and our current Prime Minister, the Minister of Transport, said: "O Artvinians, we are going to meet Farhad and Shirmut. We are glad that they will meet Borakka and Hopa. He called the contractor, and said, "When will the company meet?" The contractor said, "In 30 months, or 910 days." No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm downloading it for six months. Do you know where he landed it, Mr. Secretary? Twenty-six months. And you know what happened? Seventy-two months passed. We still haven't met. Woe to them for having met in history! Well, well, well, well. There's no such thing. (CHEERING) We couldn't get him to meet. Mr. Secretary, you know, look, one of the things the Black Sea expects most is the railroad, the railroad. Georgia has the Port of Anaklia; China cares deeply about this port in free trade. China is entering into integration with Europe from two different places; one by sea through the Greek part, one is trying to enter through iron through Kazakhstan-Georgia, trying to create a new Silk Road project, and there is no East Black Sea in it. Please have your bureaucrats write that down. Look, there is no railway in the Black Sea, there is such a problem. I believe the Minister will make an assessment. Dear friends, there's an airport between the Army and Giresun. Thank you. You're doing the Artvin-Rize airport, and look, as a local MP, I'm not saying anything good, so thank you. But the airport between Giresun and the Army is between Giresun and the Army. You reach one in thirty-one minutes in twenty-nine minutes. I'll tell you the miles: one of them is 19 and a half kilometers, one of them is 29.2 kilometers. Well, an airport is being built between Artvin (Artvin) and Rize. The distance from Artvin City to Rize Airport is 127 kilometers...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0172par0345	How much for Hopa? How many kilometers to Hopa?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0170par0346	...the distance from Raza is 35 kilometers.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0172par0347	How many kilometers from Hopa?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0173par0348	Look at Arhavi.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0170par0349	Is Artvin another? Is it the province of Georgia? Artvin is the province of Georgia? Look, it's 127 kilometers from one, from the municipality of Artvin, 39 kilometers from Rize, from the airport.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0174par0351	Where should we do it?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0170par0352	May I make a suggestion? Don't build the airport there, do you know where? Do it to the south. Make it to the south, and let it all relax, and don't call it Artvin, my dear friends.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0175par0354	Look, look, he's doing the President a favor.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0170par0355	Now, at the coming point, there's the Green Road Project, there's a real problem, there's a real problem with the Green Road, there's a serious problem with the forest. Look, there's an ecosystem, there's forests, there's trees, there's a project that destroys it. You don't ask the people, you destroy the forest, you do the same thing in Cerattepe, there are no people. You're saying by yourself: I'm going to create a new tourism project. You're opening nature and forests to the public. I was surprised at that at first. Why are they doing this? But now there's a Minister of the Forest, a Minister of the Forest, a civil engineer, who's doing his best to destroy the forests. Mr. Secretary, you do know that this land raised Veysel the Lover? What Veysel the lover was saying was: "My faithful beloved is the land of the land. " Years have passed, and this land has raised another Veysel, and he says: "I have embraced what is called a friend, and my faithful lover is a mine company." We strongly deny it, we don't accept such a fact. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, look, there's another problem: there's another problem with the Sarp Border Gate, Mr. Secretary. Look, I was at the Embassy in Georgia yesterday -- we've been having a serious blockage at the Sarp Border Gate for ten days, and I don't know if you know anything about it. On our side, there's a truck tail that runs to the border with Rize. I asked the ambassador of Georgia, and he said: "We also have a tail of trucks approaching Kutaisi." Why do we have one? You know that, right? You'll say, "Sir, we're renovating the customs building in Sarp. There's no such thing." He's got timing. Look, the traffic between Georgia and Turkey has stopped, Mr. Secretary. So, there's no way we're going to get through with this logic about data. What we're asking is that you don't remember the Black Sea here. You know where you remember the Black Sea. Look, the Black Sea, we don't discuss the values of the Republic, we don't discuss the flag, we don't argue the flag, as Mr. President has said since then: "One flag, one state, one nation." The Black Sea doesn't discuss the Republic and its values, like people all over the country. Do you know when you remember us? Have you ever come to the Black Sea by land? Look at the overpasses, you remember when you named those martyrs' children for the overpasses, and you don't remember any other time. Therefore he says, give true value to the Black Sea and to the Black Sea, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit04spe0176par0363	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0176par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0177par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0176par0006	Mr. Erdoğdu, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0177par0007	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement on my position according to Article 60 of the previous discussion.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0176par0008	When you say the argument just now...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0177par0009	About the document discussion, the slander and the debate of the mufter, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0176par0010	Okay. Sit down, Mr. Erdoğdu, and I promise to give you a statement according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0178par0015	Mr. President, in my earlier speech, regarding the judicial documents, I unfortunately had to tell you on the stand that during this ruling period, prostitutes were bribes, and in exchange for my words, the ruling party spokesman and the MPs said "iftira." Turkish Republic Ankara 11. No. 2008/113 of the High Criminal Court. Lu, 2013/157 decision no. I just put the lu document in your social media account. I'd like these MPs to look at this decision and not call other people the inspector on things they don't know anymore. With all due respect.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0179par0019	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0180par0022	Mr. President, we have nothing to say to that statement just now. Anyway, after that conversation, after the Hatibi's speech, we made a specific statement about him: Velev, even though these were in the court's decision, we said that it was not appropriate for the council to say that the statement was inadmissible here.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0181par0023	What is the declaration of Gayriahlaki? You're welcome, Mrs. Ilkinur!
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0180par0024	Otherwise, we split it up, and I specifically state it. It could be in court decisions, that's one thing.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0181par0025	Sir, you're welcome, what does that mean?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0180par0026	Information, documents, etc., which may be in that court order, we have nothing to say to him, but we have objected that it would not be right to express him here in such a manner. If there are other issues, information and documents may press charges against the prosecutors. Other than that, there's nothing we can recommend. I thank him.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0182par0028	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz. Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0183par0030	Mr. President, look, I'm the first lady to be kind as a lady... but do you call her "gayriahla" as well? You're welcome. I'm being picked on, I want my word.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0184par0031	No, no, look, I don't think it's appropriate for you to tell me what's going on in there.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0183par0032	Well, it's off-limits.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0184par0033	We're especially correcting it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0183par0034	I'm just saying...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0184par0035	No, no, we didn't think it'd be right to explain what happened out there, so we thought it might be in the file. We're fixing it, if that's how it's understood.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0185par0036	I think we got it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0183par0037	Sir, then I'll tell you why I'm telling you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0185par0038	Here, for the record.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0183par0039	If the perpetrators of that illegal incident continue to receive public tenders later and continue in your transfer of the Public Contraction Act and the Turkish Penal Code contrary to the Turkish Penal Code, it must be explained; it must be told to be finished. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0185par0042	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Statistical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account The President's Office of the Gate Area [[Continue]] 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) BUILDING BUILDINGS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2015 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Academy of Justice 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2015 Members of parliament, the seventh speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is Ankara MP Necati Yilmaz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is six minutes, please.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0186par0085	Mr. President, Mr. Court, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Today, the preachers have always made the bards speak. I'd like to start with the poets' opinion. From Sivas, Serdari says: I'll tell you what, my dear sir, It's our inconsistencies. It wouldn't fit in the book if I wanted to. It's our arm that's been cut off from our shoulder. When I thought of the justice of the AKP's rule, which had been dulled, lost its neutrality, its leg cut off, its wretchedness, and I thought of these verses of Serdari, which problem of judgment and justice I should discuss, I came to my mind. Members of parliament, is justice to be done with this budget? The question is no longer important. In 14 years, we have seen that the AKP's relationship with justice was not to establish justice, but to refute justice. The figures reveal the state of justice and judgment. Courts have become a means of income to the state, 51 per cent of the court's operating costs are collected from citizens with court fees. The average stake per capita in the European justice system is 60 euros per person, while Turkey is only 21 euros per person. The AKP's understanding of governance produces crime, criminal and conflict, lawmakers. The number of cases is increasing at a rate above population growth, the trial period is growing, the courts are being crushed under the workload. In the increasing number of prisons, 3 times the capacity, 114,000 prisoners, 86,000 prisoners live and remain in non-human conditions. In the coup investigations, one of the four judges was relieved of his duties, 2,544 judges and prosecutors were arrested. No one has security; at any moment, anyone can be accused of a crime, fired, and arrested. Uncompromising unions, associations, newspapers, TVs are being turned off. The judge and prosecutors can be accused tomorrow of the case they've decided today, or they're working under threat. Just yesterday, we criticised the whip of political power, which has now become an iron fist of power. Let's take a look at the picture from Ankara, my constituency, our capital. There are many problems, not justice in buildings called the justice palace, which turn from hangars, which are rented from the side of the plazas, fire escapes, parking structures, which have no means of access. Without power, all the court courts in Ankara remained in one building. Today the courts are divided into four different districts of Ankara, and are called the fifth. I'm just saying, have a heart. Do lawyers have to put on wings and fly from one courthouse to another to perform their professions? The AKP, dear friends, is incapable of even solving problems in its own time, rather than solving accumulated problems. Members of parliament, in fact, summing up where the judiciary came from, the Supreme Court President said that confidence in the judiciary has descended from 70 per cent to 30 per cent. What's that supposed to mean? Cover it up. It's called death. Congressmans, the power has already forgotten its Copenhagen Criters, has stepped off the democracy train, now eager to fly the African dictator's second-hand plane. With this vision, it sets precedents for illegal practices from despotic regimes and centuries beyond. He is no longer seeking his future in the EU, but in the despotic presidential systems of the Shanghai Five, and he is lost in his compass. We can't expect justice from that understanding, we can't approve. We've seen this understanding in pirate laws. Here came the draft law on good pensions for academic lawmakers, marriage with child molesters, private with individuals, delivery to addresses. We can't expect justice from this outrageous understanding of moral and moral values, dear MPs. Those who seek justice from understanding that abandoned judgment and sovereignty over the Blue Marmara massacre in exchange for bribes from Israel were also wrong, and their expectations failed. The Lighthouse is the biggest corruption of the century, and we can't expect justice from a confused understanding of the compass, which is struggling to save Zarrab. His accomplice, who covered up corruption in December 17th-25th investigations, was sentenced to death in Iran. We can't expect justice from this dark mentality, the prosecutor at the time of the conspiracy cases, his current indictee, who delivered the Supreme Court and State members to the congregation in the house of HSYK Secretary General Mehmet Kaya. Congressmans, we can't expect politics from this multifaceted and unprincipled understanding of the multi-principal and unprincipal understanding that used separate references during the mastery period when he co-directed justice and the state and trained as an apprentice along with it, when he fought and walked into shared ranges alone. The AKP's practices left increasingly decaying justice in the Ministry's name alone. Now this Ministry's practice is not about justice, it's about pleasure, it's about oppression, it's about persecution. We say no to oppression, persecution, and his budget. I salute the General Assembly, my dear friends.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0187par0106	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. The eighth speaker, Ankara MP Ali Haydar Hakverdi. Your time is six minutes, Your Honor. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0188par0111	Mr. President, Mr. Councilman, my friends, the MPs and the employees of our Parliament, I salute you all. We're discussing the budget, so we're going to decide here how much we're going to distribute incomes, taxes, who we're going to divide, how much we're going to divide from our citizens. Actually, the bottom line is, what kind of country do we want to live in, what do we do to our citizens, what do we decide in the budget? The bottom line is that this is actually the place, but I find that the attention is really very small, especially by power, and I'm really sad about it. Now, in 2002, when the AKP came to power, there were 59,429 prisoners and prisoners in prisons, the number is 199,251 today. On October 10th, we released 44,800 people under the Law Code 671. So, what I'm saying is that the 14-year-old AKP government has increased the number of prisoners and prisoners by 400 percent. Of course, the population has increased, but the population has increased by 20 percent. I'm talking about 400 percent. You know what that means? This means that the number of criminals and criminals in the AKP administration is increasing, that the public's peace of mind is getting worse every day, that social peace is getting worse. That's what these numbers show, in concrete terms. Now, there are 362 prisons in our country. The capacity of these prisons is 200.345, which means the prisons are full. Unfortunately, 2,410 children are convicted and under arrest. And then there are 522 other children who are not guilty of anything but staying with them because their mother is in prison. Now, these letters standing in front of me, Mr. Secretary, are from prison letters sent to my side in the last few months. I'm just going to give you a couple of examples of these. Prisoner T. S. He's a convicted felon who's been beaten to death by water and used as a mop in front of the warden. This is done in front of the warden. Also on August 17, 2016, right away in Kırıkkale Type F Prison, there is a 90 per cent visually impaired prisoner H. B gets stripped naked, strip-searched, and blown away. These are all allegations, there are similar things in these letters, there are so many similar events. Minister, I'm going to remind you one thing: a month ago, you said on Tuesday (November 1st) from here: write to me your torture claims, and I will personally investigate them, and we will not look down on you, no matter who they are. And you said: "Everyone in the prison is our trust, everyone in our family's trust." Did you do any of that? It's a bet, but did you do a procedure, a follow-up? It's all in your hands. Is that how you take care of your trust, Mr. Secretary? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, you're saying you're going to build 174 prisons in five years. So, what I understand from here is that crime and crime in this country are going to increase, social peace in this country is going to be further down in five years, and most of this country will be turned into a semi-incarcerated prison. I understand that, and I think you're going the wrong way, and I think you're setting the wrong goals. We know, let our citizens know, and let our people know that no matter how much you spend on the budget, whatever you spend on the budget, you aim for it, you predict it. Then I say, "Come, turn away from this wrong, and let us budget education, and let us make peace together, and let us feed the poor." Then there will be no more crime, no more guilt, no more need to build new prisons. In my beautiful home, children were raped in the parish dorms. In my beautiful home, in the parish dorms, our children burned to death. Let's put a budget on education. Let us invest in education, in the light of science, let our children train in public schools without money; let the state look at our poor children in clean, shiny, safe dorms, and let them study them. Let's not build new prisons, let's put a budget on education. And finally, I'm saying that all the children who were raped in these parish dorms, all the children who were burned to death, are on top of this House.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0189par0124	It's above the government.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0188par0125	This is above the House and above the government most of all. I don't forget, I'm ashamed, lawmakers. Shame on you, Mr. Secretary. Shame on you. I salute your General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0190par0129	Thank you, Mr. Hakver. The ninth speaker is Gaziantep MP Mehmet Gökdağ. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0191par0133	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish Justice Academy budget. I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, the Justice Academy was established in 2003 to comply with the European Union's legislation and practices and meet our need for education in the field of justice. The Justice and Prosecutor's Candidates Training Centre, which previously met the Ministry's need for education, has also been converted into a training centre within the Academy. Members of parliament, the main objective of the Academy is to ensure that judges and prosecutors who will distribute justice to every part of the country are trained and trained. In order for judges and prosecutors to carry out their duties according to neutral, legal state understanding, they must first feel secure, believing that they are under the protection of the judicial and prosecutor's guarantee in Article 139 of our Constitution, they need to internalise that they are free from the influence of political power, that they will not suffer the wrath of power because of their decision. Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu must not enter politics in three places, not politics in the mosque, not politics in the barracks, not politics in the judiciary. If the judiciary becomes political, it is clear that dear friends, judge and prosecutors tend to step out of the process of making decisions independent, impartial, based on their conscience, and therefore decide according to the will of the government. So instead of getting away from the idea of justice, how do I get used to power, how do I get from the country to the center the quickest way to put my understanding of how to come to the center in the first place of professional life? Members of parliament, in order to ensure the belief that justice is being done, as well as the independent and neutral judiciary we are talking about above, the view of the independence and neutrality of the judiciary should be seen openly and clearly by society. The individuals who form society must know that no one can intervene in the last place they will go when they are wronged, that what the law says happens, and the judge decides to rectify injustice according to his own conscience. Any interference to break that thought increases the belief that the decision is not fair, that it is not in accordance with the law. Even if a decision made by a ruling that was thought to be political pressure is legally correct, it will not be viewed as a fair decision by the community. Dear friends, the Supreme Court and Prosecutor's Laws have been changed four times since 2011. All of these changes were made according to the need of political power, with an understanding of designing an appropriate high-judgment for him. Can such judgment be trusted, dear friends?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0192par0139	There is also a saying in Mongolia, my fellowman. Remember, Moğultay.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0191par0140	On the other hand, in critical cases, we have seen over and over again that the court judge and the prosecutor have been changed by sudden decisions and that those who will decide according to the will of the political government have been appointed.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0192par0141	Let us not forget the man who signed the word of Mongolia.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0191par0142	Can you trust such a judgment, friends? For all these reasons, confidence in the judiciary is reduced to 30 percent. In fact, it's clear that while he's still in business, the idea of political power making a proper judgment for him is on a legal basis. After a long time of hard work, those who finish law school take their ideal judge's exam, and they work hard for it, and they face the verbal test, where their efforts have been brutalized before they have yet to experience the joy of winning the written exam. I mean, the people the government wants will be judges and prosecutors. Can you trust such a judgment, friends? Can such a judgment be considered to result in justice? Dear lawmakers, in order for society to have a sense of justice, there must be no obstacle to freedom of rights. It is impossible to speak of justice there if there is an obstacle to the freedom of citizens to seek rights. By using the July 15 coup attempt as an excuse for designing the state according to your own understanding, the rights of those who have been wronged illegally have been taken from them by the State of Emergency decrees against the Constitution, against international contracts. Serious obstacles and restrictions have been brought to the defense, which is one of the three sides of the trial and will not be mentioned without a fair trial. You've recently passed a bill of amendments to the Criminal Code and other laws. According to this, you have imposed a ban on taking the cases under 40,000 TL to the Supreme Court, so the citizens will not be able to appeal to the judiciary in cases whose value is less than 40,000 TL. You make such an arrangement because you see this amount as worthless and insignificant. Congressmans, it is clear how unfair the distribution of income in our country is. There are millions of unemployed, millions of workers living on minimum wage under the hunger line, millions of poor people living on the aid of their lives in our country, 40,000 TL is a huge number for this large number and a fortune. Justice is needed for all, but most of all for the poor, for the weak. The law must protect everyone, but protect the weakest in the environment where the strong can protect themselves under any circumstances. Dear friends, I'd like to finish my talk with a statement from Montesque: If the people in a government are not able to believe in justice, then the government is condemned. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0193par0148	Thank you, Mr. Gökdağ. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the tenth and final speaker is İstanbul MP İlhan Cihaner. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've had a lot of applause, Mr. Cihaner. Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0194par0154	I hope I deserve the applause. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute all judicial workers affected by the budget. I think the HSYK is the most critical institution of the process we've been through. I mean, so much so that the actual institution that actually uses power right now is called HSYK. If we were having this conversation before 2010, it would be possible that we would be talking about how the minister and the undersecretary in the HSYK and how their presence affects judicial independence, neutrality, or, judge, how prosecutors have affected their right to choose HSYK. However, something else happened in Turkey, something else happened. Regarding these structural, historical, and traditional problems of the HSYK, I just want to say that the experiences of each country have historical uniqueness. Every country has to come up with a solution to those historical experiences. In this way, HSYK must be quickly rescinded from its current method of selection. Otherwise, the use of judicial power in this way will lead to total destruction. Today it has been constantly spoken, and the fact that trust in the judiciary has been reduced to almost one number is already one of the greatest indicators of this. In particular, it is not sustainable for HSYK to be ruled, created, and dominated by the entire judicial system, according to criteria such as etnisity, world opinion, and political opinion. Maybe it's not a sustainable structure, although it's seen as a short-term understanding of the legal hell of the 15th of July. As a matter of fact, the suspension of observer status from the HSYK network of European judicial boards should also be considered as a warning for this matter. In this short time, I'd like to close the structural and traditional problems just by referring to the way HSYK members are chosen. Other than that, the main problem is Turkey's legal hell, which was brought to trial by the Fetullahist construction before July 15th, and after July 15th, it is being fought against. After the 2014 HSYK elections, the HSYK prioritized its priority to combat this Fetullahist organisation in the judiciary. This was a strategicly accurate and understandable decision. However, immediately after that, we had serious problems recently, especially because of the extraordinary situation declared after July 15th and the fact that political support -- which should be supported by force -- was presented by power, or directly because the AKP had turned it into an extraordinary state of opportunity. The biggest of these problems is that the agenda of the judiciary, the practice of the judiciary, is directly in line with the agenda of power, with the practice of power. The most striking example of this is the application of judicial components to those who have previously been targeted by power, to groups. One is, you know, the arrest of lawmakers and party co-chairs. This had already been pointed out, and the court almost gave it an order. Similarly, the arrest of some journalists and intellectuals, thinkers, can be assessed in this framework. This illegality must be ended immediately. However, I have handed out $8.5 billion in bribes in Turkey, such as Babek Zencani, which the judiciary, particularly the criminal judiciary, has to investigate. The fact that it has not been taken seriously and investigated by the judiciary so far is a very clear indication that the agenda of the ruling and the judiciary has been covered in some way. So far, the suspended judge, the prosecutor, the discharged judge, the prosecutor, is close to 4,000. The most important problem of the criteria for these suspensions and exports is that the attitudes during the 2014 elections have often been decisive. Furthermore, the fact that administrative measures and criminal measures, such as exports, suspensions, and measures such as arrests, seizure, are not distinguishable from one another can lead to great injustices, unlawfulness. Gene, in the process of reducing the burden of the judiciary -- perhaps it will bring burdens, but -- it is essential that a commission of the Fetullahist organization must be carried out to address the injustices committed during the practice of justice. It's a fact that citizens who can't make their voices heard can still be subjected to these injustices, while those who preach their voices in popular cases are able to obtain these rights with this compensation mechanism. Gene, a number of shadowed events by the Fetullahist judicial process need to be cleared as soon as possible, such as the murder of police officers in Suruç, the killings of Paris. Most importantly, its impact on the overall political approach must also be assessed. I'd like to make a call from here as an ex-Republic Prosecutor, who I once carried with great honor. Judges, prosecutors need to act with courage. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Especially in a state of emergency, the practice of judges and prosecutors means the honor of people, the right to live, the conscience of people. If courage is reduced to the arrest of only great names, the opposite would be injustice, unlawfulness. Let us not forget that in the process that brought Turkey to July 15th, the real problem was that the judiciary failed to carry out the role of the reference that it should have done, and we are experiencing a similar process today. My time is up, but I'd like to remind the Minister here of a problem I consider very important. Mr. Minister, Müjgan Ekin has not been heard from in Ankara for 48 days, and one of our citizens, Taskın Ban, has not been heard from in Diyarbakır for a week. He informed me that they were not in custody, police officers and members of the court. I'd like to invite you to join us on the mission to see the fate of these citizens as soon as possible. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0195par0171	Thank you, Mr. Cihaner. Congressmans, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the speakers are complete. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, I'm going to invite the speakers in order. Mr. Zechariah Birkan is the first speaker. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0196par0178	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2017 budget of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers, as we all know, terrorists in military suits who followed the orders and instructions of the ا have attempted to destroy our country, our country's democracy, and invade our independence on July 15th. But with great heroism, our nation has extinguished this trial as a martyr, a veteran. I hereby remember all our martyrs, especially our citizens who died on the night of July 15th, with mercy and gratitude, and wish our veterans a speedy recovery. Dear lawmakers, we, the EC PARTY government, have sought to improve the standards of democracy and law through every reform we've implemented during our rule of power. In addition to regulations on the development and protection of basic rights and freedoms, it is also important that classes such as law, human rights are included in the secondary school curriculum, the future of our democracy and the awareness of our people against the coups. I'd like to thank the Minister of Justice and the Minister of National Education who's been involved in this exercise. Dear lawmakers, as you know, HSYK is a very, very controversial institution on the agenda at the point of the electoral structure. We must admit that there is also a need for a new regulation on the structure and selection of members of the HSYK, but despite all the discussions on the HSYK, his clear attitude and stance against the July 15 coup attempt is admirable. In the process, members of the HSYK have taken a strong and decisive stand against law and democracy, united in patriotism and the legal denominator of the coup attempt. If today's low impact attempt has been repelled and effective measures have been taken against future coup attempts, the work of HSYK is important. On this occasion, I'd like to thank all members of the HSYK for their attitude towards the coup and their stand on national will. Also, on the night of July 15th, the first arrest was carried out in the early hours of the coup attempt, and I thank our defense attorney and attorney general, because the coup plans came out on the basis of the coup attempt, which was taken into Bursa. Dear MPs, the Justice Department and the HSYK have been the key work of the judge and the prosecutor's office in resolving the deficit. The majority of accepted judges and prosecutors are among our colleagues who have served as lawyers. I think judges and prosecutors with experience will contribute seriously to the point of justice. On this occasion, all the lawyers accepted as judges and prosecutors congratulate our colleagues, and I wish them all the best. Mr. Minister, it is a matter of consideration for the higher level of education, professional experience and culture of our judges and prosecutors. There will be no success in the profession with school knowledge, nor will it be enough to know only professional matters. In addition to continuing updates of professional information at the Justice Department and the HSYK at the point of our judges and prosecutors' education, teaching in areas such as sociology, psychology, and anthropology will be enlightening in the practice of law. Dear lawmakers, along with the training work of the Ministry of Justice and the HSYK, I believe it would be helpful for our judges and prosecutors, especially our high judiciary, to be sent abroad to observe the implementation of the legal mechanism in the countries in which the democratic system is established, the practice of rule, prosecution and law enforcement, and the practice of law enforcement, as well as international law institutions and courts. With this feeling and thinking, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors wishes that the budget of 2017, especially all judges and prosecutors, be good for our justice ministry, all our institutions and our nation, and my respects to our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0197par0187	Thank you, Mr. Birkan. The second speaker is Giresun MP Sabri Ozturk. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0198par0192	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the State Department budget bill in 2017. I salute our beloved nation and the High Council. From 2002, when the EC PARTY governments began their mandate, Turkey's view of foreign policy has changed depending on the past years, becoming increasingly domestic and more national. The Foreign Ministry's budget has also increased simultaneously with our effective foreign policy in recent years. As a sign of this issue, we open our new diplomatic missions each year in various parts of the world. As of the end of 2016, the number of our foreign diplomatic missions, which became 198, rose to 234. This number is intended to be delivered to 257, along with our newly-opened diplomatic missions over the next two years. Congressmans, with this change of perspective in our Foreign Office, these diplomatic missions, which have opened almost everywhere in the world, have given Turkey gains not only in foreign policy, but in many areas from economy to tourism, for our country. With the number of active and multi-dimensional foreign policy-related foreign diplomatic missions followed by our ministry, the Ministry's budget proposal has increased over the years. As a matter of fact, in the 2010 fiscal year, the minister's budget offer was 52 per cent, while it increased over the years to 73 per cent in the fiscal year in 2017. The Foreign Ministry budget, set at $920m, 137K in 2010, is expected to increase by 3 times in 2017 to be $2 billion, 963 million, $645,000. Between 2010 and 2017, the ministry budget averages an increase of 16.54 per cent compared to the previous year. Dear lawmakers, the figures of the State Department budget we've expressed so far are technical issues. Of course, each ministry will have a budget of a little bit less, a little bit more. But in an environment where we talk about foreign affairs, there is one thing that we care more about than numbers, which is that everyone knows about the late Kamran İnan, one of the former ministers of Turkey's leading diplomats. He wrote a book in the 1990s called Turkey, which he could say no to, and I hope everyone read it. Indeed, in this Book, the Kaman (Muhammad SAW) is a sign. One of them, unfortunately, in Turkish diplomacy, there is no word for "no" -- the 1990s -- no matter how painful, expensive, or even disturbing his honor, the answer is, 'Yes, it is. Our people long to hear the loud voice of Turkey. I've been in pain for years. The foreign forces take the courage from Ankara's surrender, from its mastership. I invite our young people to say "No" in and out in and out of the proper situations. Our people are thirsty for it. The power to say no is available in the Turkish nation. "Kamran İnan," says Kamran. In the past years, this book, reflecting the sad state of Turkish diplomacy, also expressed the longing of our nation by the name of Turkey, who could say no. However, the effective and self-reliance foreign policy approach, conducted by the EC PARTY governments, has begun to satisfy our nation's yearning. Turkey has established its position in alliances, and has begun to make its own way as a quarterback in foreign policy, rather than the choices that have been made by other actors in the past. Turkey's self - confidence, footless policies have been the hope of the world's oppressed, unfair countries as much as it pleases our nation. This is the best example of the missed foreign policy approach. In summary, Turkish politics has carried out the longings of all political trends by the government of the AK PARTI, where the left-wing Turkish government has expressed the slogans of conservative politicians in the past, with the slogans of private foreign policy. I wish the budget of 2017 to be good for our country and our nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0199par0200	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Third speaker, İstanbul MP Azmi Akci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0200par0204	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group regarding the budget of the 2017 State Department. I hereby salute the General Assembly. From the last quarter of the 20th century, the U.S.-based West decided to redesign, change, redesign the world's structure through the end of history, the New World Order, and the conflict of Civilities. The West, which saw Islam and Muslims as its biggest obstacle after the Soviet dissolution, initiated a multi-directional war plan in Islamic geography to overcome this barrier. With concepts and ideology, such as cultism, fundamentalist religionism, radical Islam, political Islam and Islamism, which they exported in the Orientist kitchens, they have also broken Islam into Islam with the experience of al-Qaeda, which they used in Afghanistan, through the experience they had used in Afghanistan, through the past few days. With terrorist organizations such as the PKK, YPG and PJAK, whom they have evolved from racist and fascist ideology, they have also seeded ethnic and ideological hostility. They sent warriors from many countries, including themselves, to promote Islamophobia simultaneously in the West, with support from air and land. So they wiped out their country, and on the other hand, they destroyed potential resistance in the region and made it ready for Western intervention. The West aims to create ethnic and ideological conflicts in the micro-plan, creating a Shia and Sunni war in the macro-plan Islamic geography. In the 1980s, he launched the Iranian-Iraq war and carried out the September 12 coup in Turkey and brought the PKK into circulation. In the 1990s, while making the second Gulf War/making, Ozal and his team tried to enter Mosul in Turkey, provoked secularism and anti-ethnicism, assassinations, unknowns, Sivas, Gazi events, and the 28th February, he had the Apo dominating and taking over. In the 2000s, during the second Gulf War, they carried out preparations for coups in Turkey, prosecutorial attacks, Republican rallies, 367 freaks, April 27th ward and closing cases. Western and collaborators who used the Arab Spring to destabilize the region in the 2010s have also conspired and continued to plot MIT operations in Turkey, travel initiatives, December 17-25 coups, Kobani traps, alliances, coalition sanctions, pothole politics, breaking notes and raising interest. Turkey is the only country that stands firm against open war, traps, and oppression, and not only delays the goal of Western new world order, but signs the openings that will nullify it. The West and its collaborators, who did not take the necessary lessons from the nation's responses in 11 democratic lessons, sought the last resort in a low coup attempt on July 15th. But in response to his leader's call, if necessary, to defend democracy and national will, this nation has committed a revolution against the coup this time. Recep Tabip Erdogan, who wore his shroud and stood in front of the public, once again wrote that civil will is the national revolution, the local and honorable leader and symbol. The nation has saved the nation, the state, and the flag Rabiasa, from custody, traitors, and false saviors. The curtains were drawn, red-handed, and they were attacked from defense against all of them. Those who stand here and do potty politics, who enter the cover of religion, service and soldiers and betray them, will be condemned to loneliness by the low-down collaborators, who, knowing or not, will be covered by the Apostle of equality, justice, freedom and democracy, and will threaten the process with street and blood. Those who can't bend the wrist of every crusader-spirited native and foreign hand and tongs that reach our future will soon witness the collapse of the euro and dollar empire in this land. The nation has decided to build a role model Turkey in the region and in the world, with the civil constitution and the presidency system, which it will make and name the Ankara criteria. On July 15th, this nation, which made it clear that nothing will ever be the same again in the country and in the world, is determined to make Turkey a state that is not defined by domestic and foreign policy. I wish our State Department's 2017 budget, which will carry out these decisions that have been made by the nation, is already in good hands, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0201par0209	Thank you, Mr. Sower. Fourth speaker, Samsun MP Ahmet Demircan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Demircan. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0202par0214	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the budget budget for the Ministry of Development of the 2017 Centre Management Budget Act. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, it is possible to describe development as all the activities of a person to live happily and prosperously, and it is their attempt to improve the social and economic structure of our country, to build it on developed, modern countries. In the past years, our country has worked before the republic to close its distance from other countries and to solve its existing problem in this area, but together with the republic, it has been able to take important steps, despite the fatigue of long wars. In the early years of the Republic (1923-1933), a liberal economic policy was followed based on private initiative. In 1933, the industrialisation policy was adopted through stateism, followed by the economic model of dissolution and co-operation in the 1950s, and was set up in 1960 by the Undersecretary of the State Planning Agency, the planned development, the five-year development plan. It was restructured as the Ministry of Development under the Law of 641 issued in 2011. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, why do we have to get up? To live as a happy, prosperous society, to fulfill our responsibilities to other people, to protect our freedom, to protect our independence, in short, to live in this country, to live in this geography, in a way worthy of human dignity. Dear lawmakers, there are factors that affect development. These factors, if possible, are our geography at first. The negative conditions that our geography imposes are obvious. The occupations, wars, terrorist organizations attacking inside and out of our region are, of course, a negative burden on our development adventure. Only PKK separatist terrorism costs our country hundreds of billion liras, the migration of our Syrian brothers, all of this is a heavy burden on our development. The second factor is our natural resources. Of course, our country has no resources as rich as natural gas, such as oil, which can be produced very easily. We have subterranean and subterranean wealth, but it wants effort and it wants to work. Our efforts to reach local resources in the EC PARTY government have continued successfully and will continue. Our third value is our human resource, which is actually our primary value, which is effective on development. Praise be to God, we have a population of 80 million, and our population is largely made up of young people. Our educational system needs to be able to grow people who produce information, produce technology, and we need to do everything we can to get it to come. The share of education in the budget is the strongest evidence. Members of parliament, the fourth important issue that affects development is our management system. Unfortunately, a democracy that has been interrupted by coups, custody system, seven coups and one coup attempt in sixty years... Alhamdulillah, our nation, led by its leader, with all political parties, led by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has declared this treacherous attempt at coup. Of course, each blow has created a major obstacle to the development of the country, pushing it backwards from its position. But now there's a chance to make it go away. The hybrid system of the coup period will now be lifted, with the free will of our nation's current system, the corrupt system, the presidency, and will have a new legal situation in the most appropriate way to our nation's reality, its needs. This system change will gain the desired momentum in the country's development. Dear lawmakers, development is not just the economy, it has environmental dimensions, it has social dimensions, and it has to be human-oriented. The AK PARTY is still on its way, so that the government can live. It's on its way with understanding, and our development is human-focused. We're still making moves to eliminate the difference between regional balances. May our budget be good for our nation, for our country. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0203par0226	Thank you, Mr. Demircan. The fifth speaker is Erzurum MP Zehra Taşkesenlioğlu. Mr. Taşkesenlioğlu, your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0204par0231	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Development budget in 2017. I salute you all. In the framework of the government's philosophy and the government's understanding of governance, the government's long-term sustainable growth and balanced growth, and the idea of spreading between all sectors and all regions, continued funding from rural to metropole has been supported, from human capital to substructure. Despite the recession and recession of the world in 2016, the country has shown the vision and state of a country that has improved both in its region and in its world growth by growing 4.7 in the first quarter and 3.1 in the second quarter. As a result of the 2008 economic crisis, Turkey is the only period of power in the period of the AK PARTI, which has been growing for 54 quarters and continuing its developmental move in the eighty-five-year Republic, except for the reduction in 2009. Despite its expectations of demand for Treasury bonds made on October 27, 2016, despite the shadow of others, it was the result of a worldwide trust in Turkey's economy, which, despite all negative scenarios, was a debt of 10 billion 483m euros. Congressmans, as a result of some global games in exchange, unfortunately, we all watch a number of increases day by day. However, the statements made by our President and then by our government have been internalized and accepted by our people, and are more popular with TL-based transactions, and break the game. By supporting the campaign, this is the nation's pride of standing together, hard, but alive, like the evening of July 15th, in the face of the economic move against our country. Of course, as a country with international open integration, we do some of our transactions by borrowing in terms of foreign currency, but when we look at the debt that we have made under foreign money, only 23 percent of our companies -- the vast surplus of our firms -- are exported, importing companies -- in this sense, only 13 percent of our companies have been in debt. As a country, the development that we, the EC PARTI government have made so far, has not only been done as general development, but also as regional development. In 2008, despite some controversy, 15,000 approved projects were carried out along with the development agencies we established, and 3 billion euros of funding were provided. Other than that, regional development agencies such as DAP, GAP, KOP are also targeted for regional development. The Charming Centers Programme, which has recently been announced by our Prime Minister, covers 23 provinces, and the 12 billion-dollar investment budget has been transferred only to this 23 to show what regional development really is, not in the so-called sense. This growth will be aimed at not only in a particular sector, but in an inter-investigative integration, it will be designed to improve the investment environment, boost employment, direct innovative areas, weigh RD studies, and to ensure that some of its objectives will be done as well. Congressmans, as a country, we do all our success with the nation and for the nation. THE AK PARTY authorities have overcome all problems so far, trying to take the country further by turning every problem into an opportunity. Without a doubt, the entire success belongs to our nation, and we are only servants of our nation. I give my deepest thanks to the President and to all the EC PARTY authorities who have led us to the country's development move, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0205par0240	Thank you, Mr. Taşkesenlioğlu. Sixth speaker, Kütahya MP Mustafa Şükrü Nazlı. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0206par0245	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group regarding the budget of the Turkish Statistical Agency. At the beginning of my words, I salute our beloved nation and your grand delegation. Before we discuss the Turkish Statistical Foundation budget, I'd like to start with Aleppo (Aleppo), who has been breaking our hearts for days. From the ancient cities of our civilization, Aleppo returns to the ghost city. Innocent children die in Aleppo, women die. The beginning of the Human Rights Week declared by the United Nations tomorrow (December 10th). From here I ask: Are the people who live in Aleppo, as has been in Bosnia, Gaza, and Mosul, and Aleppo, not being sensitive to the United Nations, not the people who live in Aleppo, who have no rights in this world, or are they simply to be Muslims? As for my views on the Turkish Statistical Institution budget: one of the most important factors for determining the right policies for the development of a country is to have accurate and timely information. Without reliable statistics, with scientific methods, it is unthinkable to make good decisions, short or long-term plans. In every decision on social and economic issues and in every investment, the importance of statistical information is undeniable. It is important for our country today and for its future to provide the information needed to make the right and quick decision and to be open to innovation and development, a strong statistical and information system infrastructure that is essential to the age of knowledge. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are a comprehensive process that requires a planned work of statistics, demanding knowledge and experience. It begins with a need-setting process, and it consists of the entire process until the end user gets its hands on it. In this context, the TİİK, which is driven by its vision of establishing a user-based and sustainable statistical system in international standards, has moved to a multi-year programming period for the planned statistical production process in terms of strengthening and integration of our statistical system. The 3rd and 5th annual Official Statistical Programme covering 2017-2021 has been prepared. The Turkish statistical system has been renewed as part of the European Union's integration into the statistical system, and Turkey's Statistical Law, issued in 2015, has brought with it many innovations. The planned statistical production process, as predicted by the Turkish Statistical Law, has been defined as the location of other institutions in the statistical production process and has been co-ordinated from a single centre of these institutions. In addition, the time and quality of statistical data has been increased, and repeated data production has been tried to prevent. In statistics production today, international, professional and ethical boards also apply and apply in our country. TÜİK is invited to pass on experience and knowledge to international organisations, contributing to international technical support projects for third countries. TÜİK experts are specifically consultants in the statistical offices of Central Asia, Caucasus, Balkans and North African countries, teaching experts in almost every aspect of official statistics. TİİK, the producer and co-ordinator of our country's official statistics, continues to work on the mission of producing quality, current, reliable, consistent, objective, international standards, to provide use, to present and to provide co-direction among institutions involved in the process of formal statistical production, taking into account the needs and priorities of national and international users. With the support of our Ministry of Development in light of the TÜİK data, we enter 2017 with a Kütahya (Kütahya) that brings to light the values of the foundations of Anatolia, which are improving, increasing the level of prosperity. With its seven thousand years of history, art, culture, mineral and thermal city Kütahya, Murat Mt. Termal and Ski Center, the tourism of Aizanoi Ancient City, the establishment of a victory-organised industrial zone and a major city with city hospital projects. I'd like to ask that the 2017 budget bring blessings to our Kütahya and our country in the first place, and salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0207par0252	Thank you, Mr. Nazli. The seventh speaker is Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Halil Yıldız. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0208par0257	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the GAP Regional Development Administration budget for 2017. I hereby salute your high council. The Southeast Anatolian Region is a comprehensive regional development programme that has transformed the region's potential into prosperity, providing concrete contribution to the economy of our country and to the living conditions of our people in the region. The GAP is not limited to just dams, hydropower plants, irrigation structures, but includes investments and activities for the development of socioeconomic sectors such as agricultural development, industrial, urban and rural infrastructure, communication, education, health, culture, tourism and other social services. There have been major improvements in irrigation, land collection, energy production and basic infrastructure investments, and improvements that will be the basis for the region's development move. The new GAP Action Plan is seen to have economic development, social development has been strengthened, urban habitability has increased, infrastructure and institutional capacity improved. The amount of waterable land in the GAP is 1,800,000 hectares - about 18 million acres of land. When we look at our province of Şanlıurfa, the GAP Action Plan in Şanlıurfa is prepared to water 7 million 640,000 acres of land. At the moment, some 3.5 million acres of land are being watered in our Şanlıurfa province. Between 2017 and 2019, 1,800,000 acres will be opened to water. Suruç Plain was our plain, which produced the best cotton in Turkey until the 1970s and 1980s. Sadly, after the 1980s, the underground waters withdrew, and Suruç Plain was dehydrated. Although Suruç Plain had the Ataturk Dam right under his nose, he could not find water to drink, let alone water to water it. Every time the political parties of the period came to Urbana, Suruç, they would gather and ask the political parties for help with the Suruç Watering Project. The political parties did not turn their backs every semester after promising Suruç to bring water to Suruç. In fact, before an election, water pipes were placed in the entrance of Suruç, and after the election, they took the water pipes away. But people wanted to believe now. Even though they knew that water could not come with those water pipes, they were waiting for a ray of hope. After the elections were over, our Suruç brothers were either migrating from Suruç (as a seasonal worker), or moving to Çukurova, Anatolia, the Black Sea, and Aegean as seasonal workers, a journey of hope was beginning behind them; some could return to Suruç, and some would lose their lives on the road after seasonal labor was over. This was not Suruç's destiny, but one day a leader would come to this country, and he would listen to the voice of the Suruçites. A faithful, honest, righteous leader came to Turkey, this country. This was Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. (AK PARTY) During our President's visit to Şanlıurfa, Suruçlar blocked the road. Our president stops the bus when our leader sees the letter written on a rag and listens to Surulus there. How can there be no water here, even though the President is at the bottom of your nose? "Don't worry, when I return to Ankara, my first job is to bring water to Suruç. When he comes to Ankara, he immediately asks for the Suruç Watering Project's file and instructs.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0209par0261	Remember Solomon Demirel with mercy, for he has also laboured in it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0208par0262	This is our work. For years, land longs for water meets water. The world's 5th largest irrigation tunnel has been built for Suruç.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0210par0263	Don't forget the GAP, the GAP.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0211par0264	We know the Cevheri, and we know no other; we know the Cevheri.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0208par0265	Our Suruç brothers have begun to sow their land.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0212par0266	Who built the dam, too?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0208par0267	The happiness in these people's eyes, I guess, you can't see it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0212par0268	Tell me who built the dam.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0213par0269	We know Cevheri, we don't know anyone else, we know Cevheri.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0208par0270	In Suruç, the homesick land met with water, and the Suruçians now produce the white gold themselves, contributing to this country.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0213par0271	We know Nejmudtin Cevheri.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0214par0272	Who built the dam, why don't you tell me? Why don't you tell me who built the dam?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0208par0273	This project, which provides employment for about 190,000 people, has been implemented.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0214par0274	Who built that dam and made him President, too?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0215par0275	You thank everyone who puts in a lot of work.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0208par0276	I want you to know that every penny you spend on the budget will return to people as a life.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0216par0277	He has the signature of Nejmudtin Cevheri. No one else has it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0208par0278	I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0217par0280	You thank the old ones, too, the old ones.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0218par0281	Thank Demirel, Demirel.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0219par0282	Thank you, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0220par0283	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0219par0284	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0220par0285	I take it with respect and understanding that Mr. Hatti's party praises the founding leader. However, it is in its own discretion to question the faith, integrity and integrity of past prime ministers and presidents who rule Turkey. I don't think all past leaders should be debated about faith, honesty and integrity.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0219par0286	Well, thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0221par0287	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0222par0288	Mr. President, he needs to make a correction.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0221par0289	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0223par0290	Mr. Star, you need to make a statement. If you'd like to sit down, Mr. Star, we'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0221par0293	Mr. President, I didn't mean anyone here. Thank you all for passing the service. But no one has looked back at Suruç, even though our Suruç district has been writhing for years, so I want to tell you the truth here. By the leadership of our president, water has arrived, and some 550,000 acres of land are now watering in Suruç.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0224par0294	Thanks to Solomon Demirel, and to Solomon Demirel.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0221par0295	In the next year, I believe this will be 900,000 acres. I'd like to thank everyone for their hard work on this project.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0225par0297	Thank you, Mr. Star. 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Statistical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account The President's Office of the Gate Area [[Continue]] 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) BUILDING BUILDINGS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2015 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Academy of Justice 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2015 The eighth speaker is again Şanlıurfa MP Mehmet Ali Cevheri. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0226par0341	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my esteemed lawmakers, my predecessor, the orator, have expressed it beautifully. Of course, on April 3, 1977, the foundation was laid. It was our dream. We called her seven earrings. We have joined the plains of the Tigris. From April 3, 1977 to all the precious statesmen who have worked so far, from the construction workers to the statesmen, I express my gratitude as a Glorious One.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0227par0344	The friend wasn't born on that date, so he couldn't...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0228par0345	We congratulate you, Mr. Cevheri.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0226par0346	Yes, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on behalf of the 2017 budget of the GAP Regional Administration's Ministry of Development. The GAP, our country's first national regional project, is also a model project for other parts of our country, which has led to the creation of projects such as KOP, DAP, DOKAP. The GAP project includes regions in the arms of the fertile crescent in northern Mesopotamia. The first agriculture was built in this region, and the three heavenly religions were respected in this region, and many peoples lived in this region as brothers. The GAP aims to improve the quality of life by considering human and natural resources owned by the Southeast Anatolian region, increasing our human income level and prosperity. The GAP is a project that contributes to social peace, peace, and political stability and unity as well as economic goals. In short, the Gap is the insurance of the Southeastern Anatolian region. The GAP is also a national project that brands our country in the international arena, not only regional, but national. This project covers the provinces of Adıyaman, Batman, Diyarbakır, Gaziantep, Kilis, Mardin, Siirt, Şırnak and Şanlıurfa. The nine counties, based on the project, form about 10 per cent of our country in terms of geographical space and population. The 1989 GAP Master Plan was designed to build 22 dams, 19 hydropower plants and irrigation networks in the region. The completion of the GAP is envisioned for the production of 27 billion kilowatts per year of hydroelectric energy and a large portion of the country's energy needs. 13 hydropower plants have been completed as part of the GAP. By the end of 2015, 416.2 billion kilowatts of electricity were produced from the adoption of 13 HES. The money value of this energy was 25 billion dollars. When we evaluate the GAP project in terms of irrigation, the water potential of the Firat and Dicle who passed through the region constitutes 28% of Turkey's water potential. In addition, 20 per cent of irrigable land in Turkey is located in the GAP region. With the completion of the GAP, 1,822,000 hectares of land will be watered. The area opened in 2002 was 198,854 hectares, reaching 488,160 hectares as of 2016. About 71 per cent of the watering sites were in Şanlıurfa, and were opened to water 345,675 hectares in Şanlıurfa. Another 170,051 hectares are scheduled to be watered by the end of 2014-2018. Thanks to investments in the region and the private sector related to it, industry based on agriculture and agriculture has developed in the GAP region, and its reflection in exports has been very positive. Exports, which were $503m in the GAP region in 2000, reached $8.8 billion in 2015. The total exports in the GAP region rose from 1.8 per cent in 2000 to 6.1 per cent in 2015. Exports per capita increased from 76.2 dollars in 2000 to $1,117 in 2014. The region is ranked fourth after Istanbul, East Marmara and West Anatolia, with its share of exports. There have been significant developments in transport infrastructure in the GAP region. As of 2015, the territorial network in the region reached 6,350km, the highway network reached 294km, and the divided road network reached 2,183km. The 8 airports have provided air travel to all provinces. Besides, colleges have been established in all of our provinces. The number of organised industrial districts in the region has risen to 17, while the small organised industry has risen to 36. In addition, when we look at the benefits of the Gap, watering benefit is $2.1 billion a year, energy benefit is $2.2 billion, contribution to the national economy is $17.1 billion a year... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...accessibility of employment will be 3.8 million, increase in income per person by 209 per cent. As I end my words, I express my gratitude to the GAP administration, our Ministry, our government, all the people, all the people.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0229par0358	Thank you, Mr. Cevheri. The ninth speaker is Elazığ MP Tahir Ozturk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0230par0362	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group to express my thoughts on the East Anatolia Project in the Central Budget Bill of 2017 talks, with respect to the High Assembly. The head of the East Anatolian Region Development Administration was adopted on June 8, 2011 and under a decree issued in the official newspaper. On August 17th, the foundations for the action plan were redesigned. Ağrı, Ardahan, Bingol, Bitlis, Elaziğ, Erzincan, Erzurum, Hakkari, İğdır, Kars, Malatya, Mush, Tunceli and Van. The center is Erzurum. The head of the DAP Regional Development Administration is currently operating with 1 President, 2 Vice Presidents, 56 personnel. 1) To prepare action plans to speed up the development of the region, to coordinate, monitor, and assess the implementation of them. 2) To prepare investment proposals in cooperation with relevant institutions and organisations, make them a priority, and to send them to the Ministry of Development concerning institutions. 3) Watch and evaluate investment projects in the region. 4) Research, study, project and study of the region's development potential, problems, resources. The main principles of the DAP Administration are innovation, openness to co-operation, participation, transparency and accountability, credibility, human focus, sustainability, service focus, openness to change, sensitivity to cultural values. DAP Action Plan: The 2014-2018 DAP Action Plan for the DAP Administration co-ordinating was approved by the Regional Development High Council on 30 December 2014 and announced on 25 June 2015. The DAP Action Plan has adopted the vision of the Eastern Anatolian Region to be a high-profile agricultural and livestock centre. The 5 main development axis defined in this frame: 1) Increase efficiency and added value in food, agricultural sectors; 2) Reinforcement in industry and services; 3) Infrastructure, urbanization and environmental protection; 4) Enhancing human-social capital and social infrastructure; 5) Enhancing institutional capacity. As part of the DAP Action Plan, the plan, conducted with 52 responsible organisations, envisions the use of about 21 billion resources for 126 actions. The main activities, as of February 2016, are: between 2013 and 2013, the DAP Small-Size Agricultural Watering Programme was earmarked for 208 million grants for small-scale agricultural irrigation projects of public administrations. The goal of the project is to build irrigation infrastructure for the low-income regional producer, to get them back into agricultural production, to increase productivity in agriculture. The project will continue until 2018. As part of projects to develop animal infrastructure in the DAP region, animal drinking water ponds, plaster production, the establishment of licensed animal market markets and development of sheeping. A $65m grant has been earmarked to support universities' research and practice units. This way, 16 new animal markets were established in 2016. The number of projects supported by the DAP Administration for Elizıg is 80, and 50 are tied to the contract. The grant for these projects is 32 million. So far, $20 million has been spent. Example projects related to Elaziğ: The Small-Sized Agricultural Water Project, Animal Drinking Projects, the Development of the Petting Substructure Project, Energy Sector Opposition Projects. In the next year, and in 2017, hopefully, Elazig will continue to invest in GES (e.g., GES) because he is one of our most important provinces in solar energy efficiency. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have been earmarked 6 million funds for the solar energy system in order to uncover the renewable energy potential of the DAP region. 18 million dollars have been spent in 2016 to address social, cultural problems in the border districts. In 2012-2016, 317 million dollars were spent and 265 million have been spent so far. In 2017, 162 million will be spent. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, while our Minister of Development Lütfi is paying my respects to Elvan. I congratulate the DAP Administration on its successful work, and wish the 2017 budget to be a blessing. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0231par0389	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. The tenth speaker is Konya MP Mehmet Babaoğlu. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0232par0394	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Office of Regional Development Management Project, and I salute the General Assembly. The KOP Administration was located in Aksaray, Karaman, Konya and Niğde. This year our government expanded Kırıkkale, Kırşehir, Nevşehir, and Yozgat, including our provinces. Thus, a new KOP region reached 12.2 per cent of Turkey as an area. I wish this expansion to be a blessing to our new provinces, to our region and to our country. Thus, most of them lived in Seljuk and remained universally, and became a cultural basin, with the addition of our values, such as Haci Bektas Veli, Ahi Evran, Nasreddin Hoxha, Sadreddin Konevi, Somuncu Baba, Karamanoglu Mehmet Bey. Mr. President, in the co-ordination of our Ministry of Development, our COP administration carried out a five-year KOP Action Plan worth $9.9 billion in 2014. The plan includes 243 projects in 92 actions, distributed to our ministries. KOP investments in 2017 were envisioned for $2.4 billion. The KOP Action Plan is primarily upgraded to agricultural substructure, and irrigation projects are being implemented. Besides, a number of projects are being implemented for other sectors. Due to the participation of our new provinces, the KOP investment budget is expected to increase further. Annual investments in the region should not be mixed under the KOP Administration's corporate budget and the KOP Action Plan. It's the corporate budget of the administration we're interviewing here. The KOP Administration's own institutional budget reached 133m liras in 2016, while the 2017 budget was offered at $184.7m with a 72 per cent increase. Of course, it's also been effective here that our new provinces participate. As part of the KOP Action Plan, our ministry's KOP projects, as well as our COP Administration, are implementing many projects with its own budget. This is a good example of the Small Scale Waterworks Program, which has stopped migration by increasing the income levels of small farmers in rural rural areas, and is well done in Niğde Province. So far, using $448 million grants, 550 of our ponds and closed irrigation systems, and our farmers have increased income levels by 5-6 times as high as strawberries and cherries, and they have continued to migrate in villages where this project has been implemented. This way, 95,000 hectares are watered. In addition to co-ordinating the KOP Administration KOP Action Plan, the International Data Centres International Research Project, which attracts the attention of the world's IT firms has completed its task. Meanwhile, a series of projects such as the Iconian, Karaman, Aksaray and Niğde provinces continue to run an industrial and trade corridor project, the COP youth studies, the study of solar cells to be produced in our country -- which is particularly concentrated in Niğde -- such as the KOP Social Development Programme. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, as the EC PARTI, we have implemented regional development plans and reformal efforts to strengthen rural areas, such as the Metropolitan Law. Of course, we need to reinforce these action plans, strengthen the Metropolitan Law even more. The Marmara region must lighten its burden, and we must make new Marmaras. In this sense, it is clear that a new cone-based power centre is needed because the strengthening of the east and southeast is the strengthening of Central Anatolia. In addition, new water supply projects in the KOP area must be carried out with urgency. In addition to railway energy projects, a technical university in the province of Iconia is important for the region to have a technical university. Finally, we wish the 2017 budget to be auspicious; we expect all of you on the 17th after budget -- we may not be able to go for the Sheb-i Arus ceremonies -- because of the budget.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0233par0404	Thank you, Mr. Babason. 11th Speaker Giresun MP Cemal Özturk. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0234par0409	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2017 budget of the East Black Sea Project (DOKAP) Regional Development Management Administration. I salute the General Assembly and my fellow saints. DOKAP, the capital city of Giresun, was founded in June 2011, and began operating in April 2012. The service area was originally identified as Artvin, Bayburt, Giresun, Silverhouse, Army, Rize, Samsun and Tripoli, and was released with 9 with the addition of our Tokat province in September 2016. The DOKAP aims to coordinate the implementation of the East Black Sea Project, and to speed up the development of the region by fulfilling the services required by investments in the provinces in which the development project is implemented. The presidency first implemented the 10 billion $400m Turkish-funded DOCAP Action Plan. The plan was built on five basic axes -- tourism and environmental sustainability, economic development, infrastructure and urban development, social development, development of institutional capacities at the local level. In addition to the plan, rural infrastructure problems under the Green Road projects have been designed to improve road improvement and road construction, development of tourism centres, improvement of the quality of tea and nuts, development of beekeeping, development of the Investment Island Project, support of regional shipyards, the development of active use strategies of ports in the region, resolving rural infrastructure issues, boosting recreation areas in cities, completion of integrated solid waste management projects, completing infrastructure and capacity of schools in the region. Studies have been completed in most of the betting areas and 7.4 billion Turkish dollars in public investments as of the third quarter of 2016. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the projects run by the DOCAP Regional Development Administration and closely monitored by the public is Project Green Road. The Green Road Project, which will lead to the development of the region in tourism, is a project that aims to improve by protecting nature. The Green Path Project's main theme is to improve its path with the current bow. In this scope, about a thousandkm of the distance of 2,600km, described as the first priority of the green road, are the current roads of the General Directorate of Highways. The remaining 1,600km are the current bowways used by our citizens on the local scale. The project aims to build roads that are in harmony with nature, in line with the beauty of our tourism-based plateaus. The Green Road Project was earmarked for 176m Turkish liras by DOKAP in 2013-2016, to be used by its special administrations and urban municipalities. Most of the project will be completed by the end of 2018. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, your work in any sector you've chosen is a very comprehensive concept, and unless it's integrated with many sectors, the desired conclusion cannot be reached. Therefore, outside the DOKAP Green Road Project, he has implemented and implemented projects and activities in many areas that will provide infrastructure for both the tourism sector and integration with other sectors. Despite its new creation, we are pleased to see the DOCAP (DOCAP) conducting important work in the region. I would like to express our gratitude to our Prime Minister, Minister of Development and all concerned parties, especially Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who was the cause of the admittance of the DOKAP. And because of his valuable work, we're going to need to get our DOC president and all his employees... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...congratulations, I hope our budget is a blessing.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0235par0420	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. The 12th speaker is İstanbul MP Mürteza Rich. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0236par0425	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Justice Department budget. As in the past, I salute the great assembly, which will rule the kingdom and the will, as in this day. Honourable MPs, the Qur'an sent by God to guide mankind. God commands justice, kindness, and the help of relatives. And forbids indecency and inordinacy. He advises you so that you may take heed. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, where there is justice, there is no place for a weapon. If guns are throwing up death all over the world today, justice is at stake. Even Timurlenk has shown the way out, saying: "The land is taken by the sword, but it is protected by justice." This way, as Sultan Süleyman of the Law said, makes justice what the sword cannot. Now this injustice in the world must be brought to justice. How would our Stable Poet, who spoke to Omer in Hazreti Ömer, if a wolf crossed a sheep in Tigris, would rebel if he heard the atrocities that took place today in Aleppo? Mr. President, the Justice Department is not just an institution that builds buildings and operates the personnel' essence process. The organisation of the terrorist organization in the justice community has shown that the institution, which needs to resolve conflicts in society with justice, has become the source of problems itself. That would undermine his trust in justice. The regimes, where there is no independence of the judiciary, where the right to property is at stake, cannot ensure stability and trust. And I must also point out that the practice of not giving indictments to arrested defendants must be reconsidered. Justice, as it is known, is one of the most important social services distributed within the judge, prosecutor and lawyer. Unfortunately, the early warning system didn't work in our country because the law enforcement agency wasn't activated enough. Today, however, there has been a great opportunity to address the negative because of new constitutional studies. The Justice Department is in the position to contribute the most because of its own acquish. On the night of July 15th, our nation claimed democracy with its life, with its blood, and wrote the first unwritten article of the Constitution with its own hands. In fact, aren't the constitutions written on human skin in the historical process? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I must say that the greatest struggle for freedom, by the way, is opposed to what we call the institution, which is called the king, queen, ruler, king, king, and president. The reason for this is that, as it is known, all forces, originally referred to as legislation, execution and judgment, were gathered in the head of state. First, the judgment, then the living, and finally the power to govern are pieces torn from the power of the ruler. The laws of physics of politics have expressed this situation as follows: It is consistent with ephelical experience that all those who possess power tend to abuse it and continue to abuse it until they meet a limit. Even virtue needs to be limited. The force must be arranged in such a way that the force will not be misused so that the force will stop the force. I would also like to remember the Salihite Delegate Zahid Molla, who came up with this basic principle in 1919, without ever hearing the name of Montesquieu. In the Alaşehir Congress, he said: "Everything in the world is in order, the law of balance. From this account, the purpose is to build a convention, a regular facility on the public commanders. Anyone who takes power will abuse it by means of human nature, not by means of it, but by means of it. Dear lawmakers, the principle of the separation of forces in the classical sense has become ineffective in the face of the political party's reality. In this sentence, the president of a constitutional body of one person in our country was given a new position and function with the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey of 1982. The president has been accepted as head of state and administration. The moral role imposed on the president by the positive constitution, the placement of state institutions at the top, and the choice of the party's rule to be limited to state power, has greatly increased the importance of this office. In terms of basic rights and freedoms, the new powers of the presidency mean loss of public rights. However, given the fact of the world and political party, the need for more effective governance has been born. As a result, Westerners build Turks but can't fix them. Can they override their judgment for the first time at the point of constitutional change? In addition, a historical consensus has been established on our Constitutional tradition, along with the positive contributions and guidance warnings of Mr. Doctor State Garden, the esteemed chairman of the National Movement Party. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0237par0435	Thank you, Mr. Rich. The thirteenth speaker is Kayseri MP Hülya Nergis. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0238par0440	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Justice Department budget of 2016. I salute our holy nation and your high council. In the EC PARTY period, reforms and radical changes have been signed in the field of justice as well as in other areas; the right-seeking methods have been increased, the path to individual application to the Constitutional Court has been opened, the right to obtain information and to apply to the public auditor. One of the most important historical reforms in the area of the judiciary, the law was adopted on July 20, 2016. The need for the establishment of many years of law enforcement has not been enforced, although the law has been drafted nine times; it has been given to us again to take this historic step. The charge of the judicial court was legalised in 2004, as well as in administrative judiciary in 2014, while it was actually carried out on July 20, 2016. With the execution of the law courts, the two-degree judicial system has been adopted, the right-seeking ways have increased, the legal assurances of individuals have increased, the review of evidence has been made possible, the hearing has been made, if necessary; instead of coming to Ankara to investigate the appeals of our citizens, it has now been given the opportunity to address the problem at the local level. The Supreme Court and the State's workload has been reduced and the way to become a real court of law has been opened. In order to ensure efficiency and efficiency in the integration of the application union, in the first place, there were seven law enforcement courts in seven different regions. Although the courts have served for four months, a total of 11,062 cases -- 6,924 sentences and 4,138 laws -- have been seen. The total finish rate of the criminal agencies was 72 per cent, while the legal offices were 74 per cent. Another arrangement that we believe will greatly ease the burden of judgment is the mediation agency. Intermediation institution 6325 has been adopted into our country as a law reform in the AK PARTY administration. Intermediators are officially on duty. As of now, there are more than 3,314 ▪ mediators registered on the record. 31 educational institutions, including the Turkish Association of Bar Association and Turkey's Justice Academy, have been granted accession training, and mediation training is under way. The agreement has been reached on 5,201 incompatible, 4,967. The number is 96%. The dissolution of intermediary practices is the first in disputes between workers and workers. The draft draft of the Business Courts Act, which stipulated an application to the mediator before a lawsuit was filed in labour-employee conflicts, was presented to the opinion of relevant institutions on 23/3/2016. Thus, it will be possible for business courts to resolve some 400,000 discrepancies in the field of duty through mediation. In an effort to ensure co-ordination by the Ministry of Justice and to make mediation easier to reach, our 59 courts have been established and activated. Beşiktaş Municipality, Ankara Chamber of Industry, the Bursa Chamber of Commerce and Industry have established mediation centers within its own body. All these studies by the Justice Department will contribute greatly to the country's economy, and will also be effective in providing justice with the early solution of judicial conflicts. I salute you all, and wish you all the blessings of the 2017 budget for our beloved nation.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0239par0449	Thank you, Mr. Nargis. The 14th speaker, Congressman Cahit Özkan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0240par0453	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the Justice Department budget, including the Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Prisons Employment Institution 2017. I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly. Today, our Ministry of Justice serves in the area of the execution institution, which directly affects 100,000 people, including about 200,000 prisoners and prisoners, 395 thousand probationary prisoners, 52,000 prison-controlled prisoners, and 52,000 prison sentences for the protection of execution. As an EC PARTY, we have made the penal institutions fit the standards set by international contracts, particularly the European Convention on Human Rights. We've taken every necessary precaution in the criminal execution system to protect the rights of prisoners and prisoners. That's why the European Court of Human Rights, which has embarrassed our country in the past, is now history. In this framework, we've closed down 276 criminal execution institutions that don't meet standards. We've deployed 149 new penal institutions in accordance with their modern execution procedures. In 2002, we increased the number of employees with 20,000 to 52 thousand in need. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Criminal and Execution Institutions of Prisons, and the Department of Businesses of Prisons, are successful in their 277 workhouses, established in accordance with the criminal trial and criminal execution law, to protect and improve the profession and the arts of prisoners, to make a profession available to non-employees, to make their time useful to the economy, to prevent the re-criminals, to regain their economic freedoms. 50,000 prisoners and prisoners have worked in these institutions, and as the law states, these prisoners have learned trade and art, earned an insurance profit, and have taken a share of the profits. Business housing, on the other hand, serves to transfer traditional crafts from generation to generation, with the profession and art they teach. They also contribute greatly to the country's economy by investing in agriculture and livestock. Professional activities and art products have acquired a great deal of appreciation at foreign or domestic fairs. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in addition to these activities, our government, in accordance with the modern methods of execution, has given the institution of supervised freedom into our execution system in 2012. With the institution of supervised freedom brought in, prisoners can be released on certain conditions of supervision two years before their parole. Two important regulations for those convicted of some crimes committed on July 1, 2016 have been brought under the Law of 671. First, a year in the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Security Measures has been extended to two years in terms of some crimes. According to this, two years away from their parole, good-looking convicts can benefit from probation. The second arrangement is related to a conditional release in the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Security Measures. In the previous arrangement, those sentenced to permanent prison sentences were able to benefit from a conditional release if they were to serve two-thirds of their sentences at execution institutions. The arrangement reduced the number of two-thirds for some crimes by half. As of October 10, 2016, 44,800 people were released on the basis of these arrangements. It was intended for the prisoners to be brought into the community through a gradual execution and evacuation process, while relief was provided in prisons with KHK No. 671. In our country, the concentration of criminal execution institutions is far below the European average. According to the capacity of criminal execution institutions, the proportion of capacity in France is 114% in France, 111 per cent in England, 130 per cent in Hungary, and only 104 per cent in Turkey. 143 criminal execution institutions were planned to be opened by the end of 2020, and 131 criminal execution institutions were also closed. That way, the hailing rate will go even lower. Again, everyone knows that the prisons, which witnessed executions and inmate riots, were also converted into museums during the AK PARTI period, where the years of the coup took place. With these thoughts, I wish our 2017 budget to be a blessing to our entire country, to be the cause of good service, and to salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0241par0467	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. The fifteenth speaker is İstanbul MP Yıldız Seferinoğlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0242par0471	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Turkish Justice Academy in our Ministry of Justice. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Turkey's Justice Academy is a public institution founded in 2003 with a corporate personality, a special budget with scientific, administrative and financial autonomy. The training centre carried out training for 3,772 judges and prosecutors in 2016. In this case, Europe is the largest judicial academy. Mr. President, good lawmakers, it's one of the main duties of the state to ensure justice. Therefore, the healthy conduct of services in this area, the quick and right conduct of fast, is proportional to the professional qualifications of our judges and prosecutors who provide justice. The education of judges, prosecutors and candidates is very important in this regard. Turkey's Justice Academy, whose mission is to submit solution proposals in scientific and international ways through vocational training, consultation, research and publication activities in the field of justice and law, plans the legal developments in our country and internationally, to monitor the current legal developments of judges and prosecutors' pre-professional and professional training. He also conducts the training with students with professional experience from within the practice. We have been given a wide view of education, including the foreign language, and we have been given the opportunity to pursue academic careers, including foreign languages. As a result, it has been established that our members of the judiciary will serve in international institutions. In this way, the number of people in the field is constantly increasing. As of today, we have judges and prosecutors serving with the European Court of Human Rights, the permanent representative of the Council of Europe and other international organisations. In this context, 3,772 judges and prosecutors were given vocational training at the Justice Academy during the training period of 2016, while 2,854 judges were given vocational training, and 3,934 people were trained in service. In vocational educational activities, the fight against organised crime, cadastro law enforcement, crimes against life and body immunity, conflicts stemming from customs and legislation, coherence basic education, fraud and fraud, increasing the effectiveness of the institution of reconciliation, and prevention of violence against women, and training in the implementation of practical problems stemming from the customs and body immunity. I'd like to point out right away that in the training of the academy, the methods of education are used to be effective and efficient in accordance with the needs of the age. In addition, projects are developed, working with local and foreign experts to improve the education curriculum. The video conference system established between the European Court of Human Rights and the Academy began to teach candidates directly about human rights and court practices by experts in the European Court of Human Rights. In addition to judges and prosecutors, the Turkish Justice Academy also provides training of lawyers, notary, court staff and other institutions for legal advisers, inspectors and inspectors. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are seeking to address various operational problems in the functioning of our legal and judicial system with national and international symposiums and workshops organised by the Turkish Justice Academy within the framework of scientific studies and activities. To this end, he conducted 15 national and international programmes in 2015-2016. The programmes were attended by judges from abroad, prosecutors, experts, representatives of NGOs; members of judges, prosecutors, lawyers and NGOs from Turkey. Dear MPs, I hereby salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0243par0478	Thank you, Mr. Seferinoglu. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the 16th and final speaker is Mardin MP Ceyda Çankırı. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0244par0482	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Turkish Justice Academy, which is the relevant organisation of our Justice Ministry. I hereby salute our beloved nation, who follow us in front of the General Assembly and its screens. Turkey's Justice Academy, which has soon achieved many achievements from its establishment, also provides training services to judges and prosecutor candidates, lawyers, notaries, court staff and other institutions' legal advisers, inspectors and auditors. In addition to training activities at the Turkish Academy of Justice, studies are being made to improve the social and cultural values of candidates. In such areas as cinema, theatre, music, literature, history, they organise interviews and conferences with the elite intellectuals of Turkey. Similarly, they organise ebru, binding, photography, ney, drama, diction, Ottomanian, Quran and tecvit courses as part of art, hobbies and sports activities. Turkey's Justice Academy is also an ambitious institution in the field of broadcasting and documenting. In order to contribute to the need for information in the field of law and justice, it has produced numerous long-term publications that have been scanned in refereed and international indexes. The International Judgement Law and Justice Review, which is published four times a year in Turkish; International Judgement Law and Justice Review, English, French, German; Human Rights Review with international arbitration in English, French, German; Global Review of Languages, where judges and prosecutors can express themselves on different issues in the field of human rights; in the field of culture, literature, art and social life; in the area of culture and literature published in six months; in the field of literature and literature published on the platform; in six months. In addition, Turkey's Justice Academy serves with its current library of more than 28,000 sources in the field of law and justice. In order to make this treasure of information one of Turkey's major and efficient libraries, the archive and resource work continue without delay. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have co-operated with 97 countries in the field of law and justice, including the International Court of Human Rights, the Council of Europe, the European Union, the United Nations, the European Court of Human Rights. In this context, the United States, including the European Union, organises training programmes for judges and prosecutors from the United States to Afghanistan, from Azerbaijan to Indonesia, from South Korea to Saudi Arabia. Turkey's Justice Academy provided around 3,000 judges and republican prosecutors with vocational training in 2016. In addition, 2,000 foreign judges and prosecutors were trained within the academy. Again, with other countries, sharing information and experience has been conducted by organising seminars, symposiums and workshops in the field of national and international law. Turkey's Justice Academy is currently conducting a European Union project under freedom of expression and supports four projects in the areas of interest. Many projects that have been programmed over the next few years and have been signed an international financing agreement include a direct or supportive institution. On this occasion, technical and administrative authorities are constantly strengthening their academic capacity. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are continuing their efforts to fulfill the duties and responsibilities of Turkey's Justice Academy in our country, which is an honorable, respected member of the international community, in order to develop liberal democracy, strengthen basic rights and freedoms, rule the universal values of law. With these thoughts, I wish the Turkish Justice Academy, which is one of our key institutions in the field of justice, to have the best budget of 2017, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0245par0491	Thank you, Mr. Çankırı. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are complete. Hatay MP Fevzi Şanverdi will now speak on behalf of the individuals. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0246par0497	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We are witnessing a period of comprehensive political, economic, social changes in the international system. These developments at regional and global levels that will lead to a change in balance are happening in our geography, where we are part of it. The risks and tests caused by this process have become more evident in recent years, and limited crises have become a part of everyday life. Of course, Syria lives in every dimension of these crises. The crisis in Syria over the past six years has left the political dimension aside from the fact that human, economic, and even cultural scars have been extensive. Although the civil war of the Syrian people is over, it is clear that this human situation will continue for a while. Respected MPs, it is sufficient to look at Aleppo to understand the depression of our geography. It is not possible to find words to explain the situation in Aleppo today. The regime and its supporters, Aleppo, have committed almost a human crime against the people. There is not a single hospital left in Aleppo. As if the human drama of the Syrian brothers and sisters we have already hosted in our country was not enough, some 300,000 brothers today in East Aleppo are in urgent need of humanitarian help. A people is forced by mass death before the eyes of the world. However, the regime is encouraged by the silence and lack of action of the international community, continuing its attacks on innocent civilians by disregarding their lives. The United Nations is not beyond collecting statistical data. Humanity was almost mute and helpless in Syria. Every bomb thrown at innocent people in Syria, every bullet fired at us, our consciences, our humanity. There's no way the world's gonna be able to handle this drama. Members of parliament, it appears that the fall of Aleppo will not end Syria's conflict. The risks, including terrorism and extremism, are a threat not only to us, but also to international security. Our attitude as EC PARTY governments has been clear and clear from the beginning of the process. Aleppo would first need to stop bombings and provide human access. However, unfortunately, Russia and China have vetoed the latest call on this subject once again. Every veto on Syria is actually a death sentence for civilians and innocent people. That's why our President, as he shouts out, insists that the world is greater than five. Because as long as the world is ruled by five countries, suffering and death will continue. Turkey has tried its best not to come to this point. In Lausanne, we made constructive suggestions in the context of human access and political solutions, but we found that the regime could not even tolerate this human approach. He continues to viciously attack the opposition, and these attacks target not only civilians but also the infrastructure that civilians carry out their lives. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are essential to the political resolution of the conflict in Syria, the re-establishment of stability in this country, the effective fight against DAEŞ and other terrorist organisations. Sadly, we see that the facts are distorted by some environments. Again, I regret to inform you that some of our friends who work with us under the roof of this great House are also involved in these distortions. However, if the Syrian crisis has not turned into a global humanitarian crisis, if the conflict has not moved out of Syria, one of the biggest share of it is the careful foreign policy followed by our country. Dear MPs, as Turkey, we aim to establish lasting peace and stability in our region and beyond, spreading prosperity. Because the main approach of EC PARTY governments in foreign policy is to solve problems through dialogue. No matter what anyone says, no matter what black propaganda they do, and no one... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that we, the AK PARTI, will continue to stand by the oppressed. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish our budget talks were a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit05spe0247par0507	Thank you, Mr. Shanverdi. Congressmans, I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0247par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on behalf of the government, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Mevlüt Sargeglu will speak first. Mr. Secretary, your time is 25 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0248par0008	Thank you very much. Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm here on the basis of the meeting of my ministry's fiscal budget in our great Parliament in 2017. I listened carefully to the valuable views of previous speakers, our friends speaking on behalf of the groups, and we took notes, and very constructive reviews came, and warnings came. I thank all our friends from the bottom of my heart. Now, if you'll excuse me, as I've been trying to explain before in negotiations with the Commission, I'd like to share with you the principles and priorities of our foreign policy. Of course, if our friends have questions in the QA, I'd be happy to answer them. Of course, one of the priorities of our foreign policy, especially after the July 15 coup attempt, has been to fight outside as well as to the inside, and our ministry has declared mobilisation in the fight against ا. In all our contacts abroad, we explained in our studies how dangerous this organization was to those countries as the terrorist group attempted a traitorous coup in Turkey. In fact, our Veteran Assembly, the target of the Gazi Assembly, has also given us great support for our efforts. The leaders of international parliaments, parliaments, representatives of the High Council President's Democracy and Solidarity Summit have shown solidarity by coming to Ankara. In fact, foreign ministers, general secretaries and representatives of international organisations who came to Ankara visited our Grand Assembly and saw with their own eyes how traitors bombed our Veteran Assembly on the night of the coup on July 15th. In addition, our fellow MPs have formed delegations from different parties, going to different countries to tell them about the organization and what happened that night. That's what we talk about at all our bilateral meetings with our friends at international platforms. So far, our foreign diplomatic missions have made 74 at the President level, 101 at the Prime Minister level, 729 at the minister level, 1.568 official initiatives at the MP level, and counting other NGOs, the total is 9,009. We're getting weekly reports from our friends, and we're going to continue this work without a break. We're getting results from our initiatives. First, the Gulf Co-operation Council has declared the foreign ministers of the terrorist organization Riyad. Right after that, 57 members of the Islamic Co-operation Organization, where 56 countries are members, are currently suspended from Syria's membership -- foreign ministers have declared it a terrorist organisation again. In the past week, Asia's Parliament Assembly also declared it a terrorist organization. I especially thank my friends here of the Asian Parliament Assembly of the Turkish delegation and our Deputy Speaker Ahmet Aydın Bey for his efforts. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] And so far, from Azerbaijan to Pakistan, Senegal, from Africa to Europe, from the Balkans, we've either shut down 69 organizations in many countries, or we've secured the transfer. Our Maarif Foundation is now in operation, and in many countries, our Maarif Foundation is taking over schools belonging to our own. If he wants to rule for himself, we give them all kinds of support. Again, within the scope of our efforts, we have taken back some members of the PKK from different countries. We may not be able to explain all of it as part of our agreements with the countries, but we've also taken a significant number of members into our country so far. We'll continue, we'll follow, we'll follow, we'll follow, we'll follow, we'll follow, we'll follow, we'll follow, we'll follow, we'll follow, and we'll tell our people, we'll tell our nation, we'll keep asking for them, to the end, we'll keep asking for them everywhere. Again, we continue to work with our Minister of Justice to bring the traitoral leader to Turkey. We will follow, and we hope that the new administration will understand our sensitivities better, and we convey our expectations to them. Of course, as with every institution, my ministry has been infiltrated, and so far we've cut off 440 people from our Ministry, some of our investigations are ongoing. We take every objection carefully so we don't make mistakes. But the terrorist organization is not the only one we're fighting. Again, we are fighting terrorist organisations abroad, such as PKK, DHKP-C. We're taking initiatives with all our friends, especially in order to prevent their activities abroad, and we're transmitting our demands, and we're going to continue to pursue them. Dear friends, of course, we continue to implement our human foreign policy very successfully as a nation, as a nation that can't digest self-inflicted sleeping while its neighbour is starving while fighting other terrorist organizations. We've shared the amount of humanitarian aid and development assistance in our previous meetings with you. These numbers are increasing day by day. The amount of humanitarian aid we did last year is $3.2 billion. Again, our development assistance is at a total of 3.9 billion dollars. So when we add them up, we are now, thankfully, the world's 1st country, which will continue to increase as our economy grows. Again, within the framework of our human-oriented foreign policy, we also bring the problems of the oppressed, the oppressed, to the international agenda, and therefore we held important meetings last year and this year in Turkey. This year, we held two very important meetings in May; we hosted the United Nations World Humanitarian Summit, which was the first time in the world, and a week later, we held the meeting of the Less Advanced Countries in our country. The number of summits that we have held within a year, which began with the G20. The number of summits that began with NATO is indeed 10 with the Islamic Summit and the World Energy Congress. On the other hand, we have other issues to deal with. In particular, we are dealing with problems such as intolerance, alien hostility, Islamophobia, which are the main problem of Europe today, which is the main problem of Europe and Europe, which concerns our citizens living abroad, and we will continue to deal with and continue to deal with problems such as Islamophobia. In particular, it is our responsibility to deal with this serious excess in Western Europe, and we remind the politicians in Europe of that. Not only the target immigrants, not the Muslims, but the common values of Europe have also begun to wear down, and as I told you before, the current painting in Europe reminds us of the pre-World War II painting. I'm afraid, if the measures are not taken, I'm afraid we're at risk of returning to those days. Again, another message to the Europeans is our relations with the European Union. Unfortunately, today, the European Union looks at the relations of Turkey-European Union from a barren perspective from its internal policy framework, looking at them from a loop. This is extremely unhealthy, wrong, and is not an appropriate approach to Turkey-European Union relations. That's what we said in Brussels when we met with the European Union, Timmermans and Avramopoulos, in Brussels, where I went for the NATO Foreign Minister's Meeting. But recently, we see a softness; we see a European person starting to understand the reality of Turkey again. That's basically good. That's what we want. We don't ask for privileges from them, but they also have to see Turkey as an equal partner; let's be a member, not a member. They're the 1st grade, we're not the 2nd grade; we remind them of that. In order to maintain a healthy relationship with Turkey, they must view us as an equal partner. Their standards may be advanced, they may be backward; there are also differences among European Union member states, but none of them require that a country be superior and a country be inferior. Our nation rejects such an understanding.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0249par0025	Mr. Secretary, what are we going to do about the execution?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0248par0026	So, if we want to maintain a healthy relationship with the European Union in the coming process, that should be understanding. Our Minister of the European Union will certainly tell you during the budget meeting. We're ready to open any chapter, and that chapter doesn't matter -- Mr. Volkan was among us, and he was always saying -- so let's do what we want with a lottery, and we're ready to do the opening and closing criteria, as long as there are no political barriers.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0249par0027	Mr. Secretary, what are we going to do about the execution? What are we going to do about the execution, Minister?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0248par0028	The Clave will assess the execution, and you will evaluate it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0249par0029	Of course, of course.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0250par0030	Mr. Secretary versus execution.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0248par0031	This is the representative of the people.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0249par0032	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0248par0033	This place considers the execution, makes up its mind.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0249par0034	I thought you were going to say "registership manager."
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0248par0035	This is where the will of the people is represented.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0251par0036	Mr. Secretary versus execution.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0249par0037	Sure. I thought you'd say Tapu is a record manager.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0248par0038	Now, of course, one of the things that is on the agenda in our foreign policy is Cyprus. Republican People's Party (CHP) Vice President Ozturk Yilmaz Bey has also made a long talk about Cyprus today. Basically, in a time when negotiations are concentrated and we are on our way to the end, the developments in Cyprus do not work quietly; in a very transparent way, we are in constant contact with the KKTC administration. Again, the last time I visited, we met not only with the President and the negotiator, but with the government's two partners; then the two opposition parties joined. There's a concept on the Turkish side about the framework of the negotiation and its commitment to the calendar, and there's no problem with that. The content of the debate is clear, negotiations continue under the joint statement released on 11 February 2014. Again, Mr. Vice President, as our vice president said, there is a comprehensive solution based on political equality, but a comprehensive solution based on political equality does not mean Turkey or the KKTC to compromise its principles. You've given some fair warning; it's true, we're sensitive about these warnings, and some of those things you say are the demands of the opposing party, some of which are essentially the demands of them, but the Turkish side didn't say yes. Since the Turkish side did not say yes, 2 times -- the Greek side asked for a break in Mont Cape, and the second time they left the table. After seeing the Turkish side's determination, a positive approach has been made to return to the table, and it is clear, indeed, the Turkish side's position here, especially at Mont Cape. We've been on the phone all the time. But we're sensitive to all the things you're sensitive about, and we want you to know that. The Greek side may want something to do with Karpaz (Karpaz) or say it's a federal state, but that doesn't mean that we accept it or that the Turkish side accepts it. Now, it's also important to connect to the calendar. Why is it important to connect to the calendar? There will be no negotiations in this framework forever. It's started, it's timed, but it's going to be connected to a calendar, whether it's going to be there or not, it's going to have to be seen in front of everyone. I mean, it's not a rush, but it's not possible to continue negotiations with a clear end. After that, there's an election atmosphere on the Greek side; other issues arise, and it stays in motion again. Therefore, it is important to set the date of the Five Conference, which will begin on January 12th. The two sides will continue their talks until January 12th. There's open issues, there's sensitive issues. Again, three days before the Five Conference, and on January 9th to 11th, they will hold intense talks among themselves. There are no concessions in particular about security and guarantees here. Others may say something, demand it, dream it, but in today's circumstances, you know very well the extent of the threats in the Eastern Mediterranean. Today, especially for gas and oil reserves, not everyone has their eyes on it, but all the great forces are there. There's the situation in Syria, there's the Middle East problem; there's DAESS, there's El Nusra, there's other terrorist organizations; there's a danger of migration. So the threat to Cyprus is not only from the problem of one another, but also from the developments around it. In such a situation, who will guarantee the Turkish Cypriot people? Of course it will be the Republic of Turkey. Therefore, we must tell all of our colleagues about the extent of this threat and guarantee that... yes, the concerns of both parties should be met, but the concerns and demands of the Turkish Cypriot people are the criteria for us. I mean, there's no way we're making any compromises, even if it's the last conference on these matters. And this process, as you say, in an intimate environment... has to be sincere to the other side to get results. We sincerely support the process to get results in Cyprus, yes, but within the framework of principles, within the framework of negotiations and within the right demands of the Turkish Cypriot people, we want to reach a solution in Cyprus, but if the other side wants to. I want to thank you again for your warnings and for your opinions. Dear friends, of course, we said we're fighting all kinds of terror, not just inside. The purpose of Operation Firat Shield is essentially to fight the DAESS terrorist organization on the other side of our border. And we're doing it successfully. At the moment, the Free Syrian Army has approached El Bab (also) with our support, and the operation is expected to be completed shortly.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0252par0041	Is he gonna buy it?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0248par0042	And where will he go after El Bab, how will he be? To the east, to the Menbic. We sent a team of American soldiers and experts to Menbic, a team of experts, and they're here to investigate. Our efforts will continue until we know that the YPG (YPG) has crossed east of Fırat, and in the coming days the place you call yellow will turn green, hopefully, and our determination in this matter will be complete. We think that if we can create a safe zone for the Syrians, hopefully, we can make sure that our brothers and sisters who live in difficult conditions in Syria live here. But -- this is just an operation against terrorism -- Syria's problem is not only solved by this operation, it's not only by defeating DAİSİŞ. For a comprehensive solution, the political solution is important for a permanent solution. The best solution is the political solution. Therefore, our resolve on the political solution is clear. So far we've been seeing different formats -- three years, four years in terms of political solutions -- and tomorrow morning we'll meet as intellectual countries in Paris -- and there's never been another country that offers as much concrete advice as we do. What kind of Syria do we want to see about the political solution, about the ceasefire, about humanitarian aid, about political transition? Others may have different agendas, they may want to divide them, but we support Syrian border integrity, territorial integrity. The new regime must also be an inclusive regime. Everyone's faith and thinking need to be protected because Syria is a multiethnic, multi-religious country, just like us. That's what we think. We also discuss all the details of this on international platforms, but we also have efforts on a bilateral level. We met with Iran four times, but only ten days ago I was in Tehran. Russia and I meet on all levels. Our president is always in contact with Putin, and our experts are meeting with him. Our Prime Minister was just in Russia. We have hosted Lavrov in the field, and at the bilateral level around here, we are pondering how to reach a truce, how to stop tears in Aleppo. We don't have another agenda. We don't have different ideas or plans here, like everyone else. Of course, we have to prevent any threats against us here. We don't want a canton of terror here either. We have no problems with our Kurdish brothers, not in Turkey, not in Iraq. Today, we are the most supportive of the Kurdish Regional Government of Iraq. Neither is Syria. We also welcome Kurds who fled from the persecution of the YPG -- YGP and PKK -- in Syria. Those who went to Europe also return and ask for our help. We don't have a problem with our Kurdish citizens. We have a problem with terrorism and terrorists. (AC PARTY) So here, we will not allow a threat to be made against us, nor will we allow it to happen. The same is true of brother Iraq. Iraq's safety, stability, our safety, our stability. It is our duty to solve the problems of Iraq, and we must help them. And the Mosul operation is going as planned, but it's slowed down. Why? The trust of the Musul people has not yet been earned. No Hashi Shabi enters, no Shabi enters, no one enters, and the people of Mosul are in a panic. Therefore, the people of Mosul must also be guaranteed here. Our thinking here is clear, and we are not insensitive to our Turkmen brothers who live here, who have to leave Telafer. We provide them with all kinds of help, and we are very closely monitoring the situation of the Turkmen who have to leave Telafer, along with our AFAD, and we have close cooperation with our Turkishmen brothers -- including all their associations -- in Turkey, Syria and Iraq, and of course our cooperation will continue. Of course, it is our duty to solve problems, to improve relationships. Our Prime Minister feels the same way, and our President feels the same way. Just a moment ago, Mr. Hishyar, the President of the Republic has set foreign policy." he said. Of course he will. The President was elected by the people's votes, and the President is our leader, the leader of our President, Turkey. Turkey's leader will have as much influence in foreign policy as he does in everything. We're working day and night to make our foreign policy work successfully under his leadership. We normalized our relations with Israel; they sent his ambassador, and we sent him.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0253par0045	They were murderers.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0248par0046	Again, we normalized our relations with Russia. But it does not mean that we should give up our principles by fixing our relations with Israel or Russia. Our position on Crimea is clear, our position on Assad is clear, our position on Gaza and the Palestinian people is clear, and it will never change, and they know it very well, and we have to continue our primitive foreign policy in this way. Of course the neighbors are important, but it's not just the neighbors, we have to go out into the world with vision. So, our friend, Mr. Ekmeleddin, who spoke for MHP, spoke for Africa, is very nice, and we've carried on with it. Our 12 embassies have risen to 39. Our foreign trade volume, 2.9 billion, is up to $30 billion, and it needs to go up. In fact, if we calculate 2050 years, it's about $49 quadrillion that Africa can contribute to the world economy. So while we're doing this, we should definitely improve our volume of bilateral trade with the winning formula. As we develop our bilateral relationships, we apply economically weighted foreign policy with our friends. We have economic advisors, but every ambassador I have works like an economic advisor, works like a tourism consultant, and has to work because we're all going to defend our country's interests in cooperation. It's our duty to defend the rights and laws of our citizens abroad, and we do that very well, thank God. Not only our citizens, but our relatives and relatives no longer feel alone because of strong Turkey. Only our call center serves in seven days and 24 hours and 5 languages. We serve our citizens 24 hours from Australia to the United States, we are sensitive to all their problems, and we will not leave our citizens alone anywhere. Of course, there are a lot of issues, and we're running out of time. We need a budget to maintain our foreign policy more effectively. Yes, we have a budget of around 2.9 billion. It covers 73 percent of our expectations. I believe that as our economy grows, so will it. I was in Germany yesterday, and I asked, how much is the German Foreign Ministry's budget? 5 billion euros -- $18 billion -- but we're doing 18 billion with 2.9 billion -- and we're going to keep doing it. (EC PARTY Applause) So I thank my staff very much, very much, very much, and very much to my dedicated staff. We have martyrs, our diplomatic martyrs, as a result of the attack of ASALA, who were martyrs in our ministry, I ask God's mercy on our staff and all our martyrs. I thank you all so much for your support, so much for your support.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0254par0054	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0255par0055	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0254par0056	Mr. Ozsoy...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0255par0057	I'd like to make a brief statement, not a taunt, but a brief explanation.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0254par0058	Of course. Here, take your seat, I'll turn on your microphone. Your name came up. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0255par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I felt obliged to explain my opinion of the President with a reference to my name. What I just said was that the president is at a certain point in this country's foreign policy, but there may be serious tensions between the President's rhetoric and the work that our Minister has witnessed in particular in Europe. I pointed out two examples, one of which is the death penalty. I know you're against the death penalty, but there's a debate. Second, it's Hans-George. Maybe the President doesn't have to deal with them very much, but it's basically your job to talk to them, to talk to them. That's what my criticism was about, and I felt I had to make a statement about it. So I made that statement not to deny Mr. President's authority on this matter, his responsibility, but to say that I saw him much more strict, much more populist, much more reactive. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0256par0066	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy. 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Statistical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account The President's Office of the Gate Area [[Continue]] 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) BUILDING BUILDINGS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2015 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Academy of Justice 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2015 Congressmans, on behalf of the government, the second speaker is Mr. Lütfi Elvan, Minister of Development. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 25 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0110	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all, and wish you all the blessings of the budget talks. The Ministry of Development, Turkey's Statistical Institution, GAP, DAP, KOP, DOKAP district development administrations have been promised on the basis of budget talks for 2017. I wish all of our institutions to have a good budget, and I thank all those who have worked hard. Today, some views and criticism have been voiced, especially for our Ministry of Development. Of course, there was more criticism. But let me put it this way: As the Ministry of Development, we have begun a study that carried our vision of 2023 to 2035. On the other hand, starting in 2017, we will begin work on the 11th development plan. In particular, I would like to express from here that we will seriously consider the opinions and suggestions of the critics. Another important thing, dear friends, is to turn the Undersecretary of State Planning into the Ministry of Development. This is often said; last year it was said, and this year it was brought up in the Plan and Budget Commission and in our Parliamentary General Assembly. I want to make this clear. What was the job of the Undersecretary of State Planning? Number one: counseling the government. Another mission was to prepare long-term plans, schedules, draft sector-based strategies and ensure that they were implemented by relevant public institutions and organisations. Well, when we ask what the Ministry of Development's job is today, it's the Ministry of Development's job to do exactly what the Undersecretary of State Planning does. On the contrary, it has been upgraded from the position of Undersecretary to the Ministry of Development. In fact, the job of the Undersecretary of the State Planning Agency and the Ministry of Development is development. We may be different from other ministries, but we have a mission that cuts through all ministries. So no matter what ministry mission you look at, it has a structure that corresponds to the Ministry of Development's mission. In that respect, I want to make it clear that I don't think there's a significant difference between his name being Undersecretary of State Planning and the Ministry of Development. On the contrary, I think it's important that the actual business of development is given to him as the ministry, given under the name of the Ministry of Development. Our highly valued lawmakers, I would like to express in particular: there have been significant changes in our development approach, especially during the AK PARTY administrations. In fact, this was not discussed in detail by the public or by our MPs. So, what was the change? What a process of change has been entered into in the field of development. In fact, I think the opposition should ask the question: I think that the government of the Justice and Development Party should ask a question as to why it's being supported so strongly. So, one of the most important reasons underlying that -- and I'm going to explain now -- is the change in our development approach. What is this change? Prior to the EC PARTY governments, there was an approach: Central government plans and programmes and they were implemented by relevant ministries. So, what did we bring? We brought in the land, we brought in our provinces, we brought in our NGOs. See, the Tenth Development Plan has provided over 7,000 participants from local organisations and provinces. A mechanism has been created that transmits the local opinion and opinion to central management. So, what kind of problems did the locals have? I'm asking you before the AK PARTY: What kind of problems did we have? First of all, the institutional capacity wasn't enough. The human infrastructure was very weak. There were no cities that produced projects, no vision of the provinces. When asked how and how do you want this province to develop when you go with anyone, you could not answer that question? So, what did the Department of Development do? Yes, as the Development Ministry, we've established development agencies, established regional development management, such as SODES, SOCAP, and SODES, we've started plans and programs that the locals are involved in.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0258par0117	Is it all about the provinces?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0118	What's that got to do with it? First, it created a powerful capacity in the local area. Our institutions have grown stronger. Our NGOs are getting stronger. Please compare. Are the structures of the NGOs 14 or 15 years ago and the structure of today's NGOs the same?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0259par0119	I don't have any left. Half the NGOs are gone.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0120	Our NGOs are much stronger. Look, I'll leave the private cut aside, for the public sake. Prior to the AK PARTY administrations, the ministry from the county departments did not even receive a project proposal, especially in the East and Southeast Anatolian and Black Sea region, dear friends. What was the central government doing then? Those projects were being put into practice, whatever decisions were made at the center. But now it's the way? It's not like that. We see that the local is involved in project preparation, project monitoring, project assessment. See, over the last decade, we've had over 50,000 projects offered to our local development agencies, 55,000 projects offered. Was there such a civil society infrastructure in the past? Who's offering these? It's mostly NGOs. There's a serious capacity in the area. Not just the resources provided by the central administration, but the resources provided by the European Union. You know, we've established the European Union Centre for Education and Youth, and a lot of different programs have been launched in this framework, and there has been serious funding transfer in the framework of these programs. When you went with anyone, you saw the difference, when you met with the industrialists and businessmen in that province, they told you that this was our 2023 year goal for exports. No matter what you go with, NGOs, public institutions and corporations in that province have set a target for themselves. So, we, the AK PARTY governments, have focused on one goal in these fourteen, fifteen years, and that's the vision of 2023. And our entire nation focused on that goal. We are continuing our work intensively towards this goal. Look, dear friends, before the AK PARTY governments, this country had no regional strategy. We didn't have the slightest strategy document on how or how local and regional development would be done. Today we have prepared our national strategy at the regional level. Let's put that aside, at the local level, there are regional plans in each area.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0260par0125	Minister, there was no airport in Ankara.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0127	It is clear how and where this region will go after ten years, after twenty years. Yes, look at Artvin. Look at the roads you've been on, you've been down those pits. Now the citizen says: I'm going through the kind of road I'm going through. You say that, too. But you don't say it when you get here. When you're talking to each other, you say, "Helal did this AK PARTI thing like skiing." But when you come here, you don't talk about it. Look, it's just...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0261par0130	The factories are closing, Mr. Secretary, the factories are closing, leave the way.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0262par0131	Minister, there was no airport in Ankara until you arrived.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0133	I'll say it, I'll say it, let me. If you'll excuse me, I'll come to them, my dear friends. See, the Southeast Anatolia Project was mentioned; it was not invested, it was not given sufficient funds.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0263par0135	Tell me about the creamy bids.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0264par0136	How many factories have you built, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0137	I'll say that, too.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0264par0138	You've always sold it, but you've never done it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0139	In the past 14 years, the amount of divided roads has increased 10 times in the Southeast Anatolian region, dear friends, and not only did we make those sathi-plated roads, but we did it in the same way that our citizen called it, the quality, which is a hot mixture of our own self-inflicted heat. Please don't ignore them.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0265par0140	Mr. Secretary, the roads are 1963!
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0141	Again, I'll tell you again, dear friends, see, I'm going to tell you again about that area. Before the EC PARTY governments, organised industrial areas were empty in Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions, friends. Please look at the figures in the past period, the figures in 2002, the figures in the early 2000s, the figures in the early 1990s, the organised industrial areas in those areas were empty, but today...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0266par0143	Why is production going down, why is the investment going down, tell me his answer?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0144	Look, I'm telling you the odds, the rates. Look, Adıyaman is 100 percent full in the organised industrial region. I'm going to go again, and there's a 97 percent chance that there's an organized industrial area in Batman. I'm going again, 91% in the Bingöl Organised Industrial District.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0267par0145	Production spurted
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0147	It's 92 per cent in the Fine Organised Industrial Zone, and it's still going on. Yeah, do we have cities with low fulcrums? I do. Where are they?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0268par0148	Tell me about the closing factories, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0149	In our provinces, such as Pain, Ardahan, Iğdır, we have a relatively low fill rate.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0268par0150	Tell me about the bankrupt, closing factories, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0151	But let me put it this way: especially for the faster development of these regions, our Prime Minister announced a program in September to stimulate his potential, announcing the Attraction Centers Programme. Now, even though we haven't announced it, how much do you know about the application for the Attractive Centers Program? We haven't announced it yet, and we've just gone to our regions and told them about the scope of the Attractive Centers Program, what kind of support we're going to give, that's all.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0268par0152	Is everyone in line?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0269par0153	Minister, will you take Sivas?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0154	I'll tell you. And as of today, we have an offer of $4.8 billion investment project, dear friends, $4.8 billion. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) And an offer has been made for 25,000 people, an offer to employ 25,000 people. They just came in without our explanation.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0270par0156	Which means you didn't do anything, which means everyone does. They wouldn't have wanted you to do anything in 14 years, Mr. Secretary, if you hadn't...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0271par0157	We're growing up, we're growing up.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0158	Now, dear friends, another important area: really, we have the pride of taking our people, our nation, and the development together in development at local and regional levels. That, my dear friends, is one of the most important reasons behind the support given to the EC PARTY. If you're separated from the citizen, if you're not integrated with the nation, there's no way you can come to power, which you can't. That's your general approach; you can't come. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, dear friends, another important area, especially the area where we see the lack of the AK PARTI governments: believe us, in vocational training, we were blocked, you all remember. When you look at SMEs, there was no business in Turkey that could be said to be called "KOBI," friends, look before 2002. The total share of the SME loans included only 6 per cent and only 6 per cent. I'm talking about 2002. Today, the total share of the SME loans is close to 30 per cent.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0272par0161	Mr. Secretary, go to Anatolia and let the citizens answer some questions.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0162	On the other hand, RD investments were pretty much negligible, remember those days. And what did we do, and what did we do as AK PARTY governments? One, we put vocational education first. Today, more or less 50% of secondary schools have turned into vocational schools.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0272par0163	The Imam-hap has tripled in your time, Mr. Secretary, and the vocational schools have been accounted for.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0164	Second, we provided an incredible support for the KOBI. We've started active labor force programs, especially one of our most important problems is the quality of the labor force. With active labour force programmes, which we will train, train, and employ 500,000 of our brothers, within the framework of the active labour force programme in 2017, we will employ these brothers and sisters, 500,000 people. So we started these programs. Back in the days before us, I ask you, did anyone know when you called it an active labor force program? Who brought these programs? The AK PARTY brought in governments. Let's look at R&D investments, R&D investments: the resource that we're currently saving in research and development has exceeded 1% of our informal domestic product.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0273par0166	Save the meat for the mines, Mr. Secretary, for the Mines.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0167	Now, dear friends, what approach will we have in the coming period, in the new era? You didn't come up with any suggestions, but we'll tell you what we're gonna do.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0274par0168	We got a lot of motions, and you wouldn't listen.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0169	Now, let me put it this way: we're going to focus on areas like nanotechnology, biotechnology, information and communication technologies, and we're starting to concentrate. We're building major research centers across the country in our universities. We're setting up new centers where so many people are employed, so many researchers are employed. They will specialize in health, automotive, energy, space, material sciences, food, defense. Each of our centers will focus only on one area, not on another, and will specialize in that area. And we're going to give these centers a corporate personality. What does it mean? It means that their decision-making process will be completely independent, that they can take personnel as they please. They'll be able to bring in professors from abroad, investigators, if necessary. We're building these kinds of centers. Why are we building these centers? One of the main reasons why we're building these centers, dear friends, is that high-tech additions in exports are low. Yeah, that's one of our weak areas, really. And that's why we've started investing more in these centers, especially to increase exports, to increase production of high-density areas. And in the coming days, we're going to be able to get five of these universities to make the corporate personality into a secure structure. We, dear friends, are a government that goes on to solve this problem and deal with it. Turkey is going through a very important process. On a global level, we know that there are serious problems, we know that there are financial markets. Now we see that the funds gradually start to shift from developing countries to developed economies. We know that interest rates, again, have been significantly increased in these developed countries. So, to take the precautions of this quickly... yesterday our Prime Minister announced a program, particularly a program that supports the real sector, and we say: 2017 will be an investment year for Turkey, 2017 will be a year of reform for Turkey. We've timed our reforms, we've made our reforms clear when we're going to do what intervals we're going to do. We will carry out these reforms strongly with the support of our Parliament. On the other hand, in 2017, we made new arrangements especially encouraging business investments. The Prime Minister announced these arrangements yesterday. I don't want to go into any of this, but I just want to emphasize one. In 2017, in the manufacturing industry... we have a special emphasis on the manufacturing industry. We've always said that we're in favor of production, we're in favor of exports, we're in favor of producing high-income products. We've established a new incentive mechanism for the manufacturing industry. What is this? In the manufacturing industry, we're increasing the contribution rate by 15 points, we're going to fully apply the corporate tax reduction, we're going to apply the incentive to all other gains, and again, we're going to give the VAT return to construction work on investments within that year, so that the business will invest in our world in 2017. We really believe that 2017 is going to be a live year for the real sector and that there will be investments that will contribute significantly to Turkey's growth, to its strengthening. I don't want to go one by one into our reforms, but again, there are some issues that have been brought up here, and I'd like to briefly mention them. There's something I'd like to share with you again, especially about savings. This has also been explained in our Central Bank's financial stability report, where our savings rate rose by about 10 per cent in 2015 to the highest level of eight years. Here's the question: is there anything positive? Please tell us. It's in shape. I'd like to sum this up briefly, which would take hours, of course, to explain, but I'd like to share at least a few of them with you. Another important issue was stated that the Tenth Development Plan had not reached its goal. The 10th Development Plan was completed in 2014 and 2015, and we are about to end 2016. For 2014 and 2015, we still have two more years to finish the third year. We have a 70 percent performance in growth, and we are not afraid to share it. We have a 72.3 per cent performance in our informal domestic product -- a billion dollars -- which is not to be underestimated. Seventy-two percent per person per income. We have an 80 percent unemployment performance. 98% in domestic savings. We have 126 per cent of the cari-processing balance, a performance that exceeds the goal. We have 81.3% of our exports and 75.5% of our imports. Again, it has been said that the budget for the year 2017 is not an investment budget. There are valuable friends, numbers here, I'll tell you: Cari's investments in 2017 have been increased by 21.1 per cent, at current prices. With fixed prices, our investment budget for 2017 has increased by 13 per cent, at fixed prices. The real growth is 13 percent. So I don't think it's the right approach to saying that this isn't an investment budget, which is that we put the budget deficit at 1.9. We could have put the budget deficit at 1,4-1.5, but we didn't do that. We said: 2017 will be the year of investment, and the year of investment for the public, and the year of investment for the private sector. Thus, we said that more investments should be invested in the community. We have set a policy in this framework, and hopefully we will implement that policy. Dear friends, another important issue for investments is that there is no investment, or it is said to be low. Let me put it this way: the average year of 2002-2015: we have an average of 131 billion dollars per year public plus private fixed capital investments, an average of 131 billion dollars a year. Well, let's see what it was during the time before us: $43.9 billion. The difference is that the AK PARTY differs from the other parties, these dear friends, it's that clear. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm just gonna say thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0275par0180	Of course, Mr. Secretary, I'll give you time to thank me.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0257par0181	Well, Mr. President, thank you very much. I wish that the work of my ministry and its members in 2017 would bring prosperity and peace to our country and our nation, and that our budget would bring prosperity to our country in 2017, and that I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0275par0184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0276par0185	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0275par0186	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0276par0187	In his speech, the Minister made many comparisons of the past, and there were none of these in the past. He had evaluations in the form of these; this is an open taunt. The latest, anti-National Movement Party...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0275par0188	Yes, Mr. Master. I promise you, no hard feelings for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0276par0193	Now, Mr. Secretary, there really are so many things that I don't know how to fit in here in two minutes, but I'll tell you this: That's exactly what I'm talking about. The Minister in charge of the State Planning Agency comes out here and talks about macroeconomics first. That's why I'm telling you, the Ministry of Development has become the Department of Regional Development, has discussed more than 15 minutes of regional issues. Now the tenth Plan holds. You say. Targets for failure... Mr. Secretary, you probably don't believe in your own medium-term program. In this medium-term program, you're saying that the national income you're aiming at in the Tenth Development Plan is $815 billion. I'm not making this up, I've got 2018 predictions here, for friends who don't know, I'll give you that number. And I'll tell you where that number is impossible to keep, because here, for example, 3,17 2017, the average dollar is dry, which is 3.17 next year's average. I mean, if we buy the current 3.50, it's probably going to drop $815 billion to $600 billion. You know what I mean? I mean, which one should I sing now? You're saying this is the investment budget; again in 2015 -- again from your document, please tell the markets if this document has no reputation, let the markets know this -- you're saying that the rate of national revenues is 5.1 in 2017. Is this what you call an increase? Let's tell you the history of all this. Look, during the previous administrations, public investments -- 13 years equivalent to -- had a national income rate of 4.7, down to 4.1, during the AKP administrations. We've seen numbers of 3.8 in public investments since your time. Now, how can you say that about the investment budget? Now, about this whole total investment thing. There's no such thing. Now, economics... I mean, I really don't want to answer that right now. It is the basic economic rule, the most important investment of national income. Investment is talked about on the national income rate, so this is the first thing in economic books, which is the first thing in the economic books, which is the "Y" = "C"+I" in "C." Now, let's just hold on to this and go over the absolute numbers like this, like this, like this... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Have you ever heard of Chinese investments like this much? China's investment, America's investment, Turkey's investment... Is there a short window of opportunity, Mr. President? It's really important.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0277par0200	Mr. Master, please complete.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0276par0201	Yeah, we're not having a debate, not whoever talks too much. Look, Turkey's not investing, we just told you that for ten minutes. I mean, I've never heard of 15 or 20 years of numerical analysis. We can talk about a project with the size of investment, but the investment of a country is talked about in terms of the permanence between countries, the periodical comparisons between countries, and the proportion of national revenues. Otherwise, you might as well say, there's a balance of savings. Then why do you call it a fall? Look at the savings figures from the previous year, for example, $288 billion in savings in 2016, and 279 in 2015. Then our savings are growing. But we're all saying that the Prime Minister says, and all your ministers say, you say, "The process is falling." These numbers are not spoken. I mean, really, I'm a little bit of a fan of answering that now, and that's not gonna happen. There's no such thing, there's no basis for economics. Now, what you're saying, sir, is that the savings rate of the Central Bank, you know, in eight years... you're comparing your time, your time. Second: Why did it fall to 13.5? Total savings in Turkey, you say. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Savings are falling in Turkey. It's very wrong to make an exclusion here, as if the savings aren't falling. There are others left, but I'll tell you later if I can. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0278par0208	Thank you, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0279par0209	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0278par0210	Mr. Secretary, you want to talk about bullying as well?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0279par0211	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0278par0212	Here, you have my word for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0280par0214	Mr. President, there's been some bullying on Uður Bayraktutan as well.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0278par0215	I'll give it to him later, I haven't forgotten, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0281par0217	Mr. President, thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to suggest that our friends, especially our friend, who was mentioned earlier, should take a look at the growth of investments in our era, and look at the growth of investments in our era, and that's the first thing.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0282par0219	He does them all the time, guys.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0281par0220	The second issue is this: remember the period of 2002 -- let me make an analogy like this, maybe it's not appropriate -- think of a medium-sized grocery store and think of it as shopping; think of today's Turkey as the work of a large hypermarket working at an AVM.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0282par0221	That's a really good example.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0281par0222	That's the difference, dear friends, that's the difference.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0283par0223	It fits perfectly, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0281par0224	I don't want to get into those numbers.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0284par0225	If it suits you, proportional, if it suits you...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0281par0226	All the numbers are here, but even the teacher's salary has been mentioned, and it's been mentioned that there's not enough resources being transferred, and the officer's not paid.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0285par0227	Mr. Secretary, tell it here, tell it here.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0281par0228	I ask you: Is there another country outside of Turkey that raises the minimum wage by more than 120 per cent?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0286par0229	You wouldn't have done that if it weren't for us.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0287par0230	Oh, come on! Mr. Secretary, for God's sake, don't do this!
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0288par0231	It was the Republican People's Party, you know that, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0289par0232	I'm asking you again, the net officer's salary...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0287par0233	Oh, come on! Sin, I mean sin, I swear.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0289par0234	...is there any other country outside of Turkey that raises a real-estate salary by 61 percent?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0287par0235	It's a sin.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0290par0236	If we hadn't said 1,500 lira, you wouldn't have done it. We said 1,500 lira and you did it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0289par0237	I think it's terribly wrong to ignore them, and I'm just saying...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0287par0238	That's a shame. Will this minimum wage support the family, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0289par0239	Mr. Master knows what kind of work the Ministry of Development has done on a macro level.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0287par0240	Will this minimum wage support a family, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0289par0241	On a macro level, he knows we're conducting these studies. So, I didn't want to go into this one by one...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0287par0242	In or out, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0289par0243	But, of course, if he wants to, we can tell him what we're doing. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0291par0246	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0292par0247	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0293par0248	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0291par0249	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0293par0250	Is there any need to correct it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0291par0251	No hard feelings, but...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0293par0252	Yes, I do.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0291par0253	Mr. Master, as vice president of the group, I'll give you my word on your position.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0293par0254	Yeah, that's fine, but I mean...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0294par0255	It's about Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0291par0256	Please state your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0295par0260	Thank you. Indeed, the analogy was good, that's what we're saying. So Turkey is cemented. We call it. Turkey's investments have already been low; we've given its numbers; it's fallen from 21.6 to 20.4 (in turn) -- Turkey's total investments. It wasn't time to talk about his qualities. And judging by the quality of it, there's no manufacturing industry in it. Therefore, the production industry's share of national income has fallen to 14 per cent. Mr. Secretary, I mean, we need to see this. Is it going to fall if it's invested? Turkey's potential growth has dropped.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0296par0262	Can you ask me what Turkey grew up with? He grew up investing.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0295par0263	I'll give you the numbers.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0296par0264	Investments contribute to growth of 1.6; in your time it was 0.8. I didn't even say that. It's doubled, please.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0295par0265	No...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0296par0266	Mr. Master, please...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0295par0267	No, I mean, Mr. Secretary, tell me what you know. If these TİK figures and Development Ministry numbers are wrong, let him say them, and we don't use them, if he's using another number, Mr. Secretary. Now, I'm using this book, which is what we call the 50 series, and I'm adding the most recent years of it myself. Here's all the numbers I got. So that's our point of view. We're talking about Turkey's investments over there. Now, there's a lot of technicalities. Mr. Secretary, those numbers have changed in the multinational line of revenues when they just said the exact numbers. If these numbers were used here, I suggest they look at Table 2-6, page 86. There's a compatible series starting from 1950. There, for example, you don't do anything on a number basis, so it's not done as an absolute number because it's the national income ratios that are fundamentally the measurer of performance. It's an investment in a country, it's not being made, so what we're going to do is look at national revenue rates. It's a very clear thing to do. So I'm going to put that aside right now, ignore it, and explain it another way here, so I don't think it's acceptable at all, and that's in the middle of it. Oh, if you mean the growth performance, then we'll look at this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll forgive me so much, may I have another moment? I'm finishing.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0297par0273	Mr. Master, please complete it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0295par0274	If we're going to look at the growth performance, do you know where we're going? Where we're going is the difference between us and precedent countries. That's what I said in this case, 1990-2002. Why are we looking at him? Thirteen years before the AKP. Look, I'm not saying that we took a year out of there and said: "We handed you a growing 6.2 economy in 2002, and now growth is down to 2.5 percent." I'm not saying that. One year is misleading, I get thirteen years, thirteen years there, thirteen years here. We're only 0.3 in simultaneous countries; we're growing less on average in the year. The growth difference has now increased to 1.5, and according to IMF estimates in the AKP period, the difference of 1.5-1.6 will continue in the coming period. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If we're talking about growth, we should look at the performance from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0298par0278	Mr. Master, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0299par0279	I'll just say one sentence.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0298par0280	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0299par0281	Mr. President, I'll just say this, and I won't say anything else: our growth rate in 1999-2002 is 0.8, friends, we grew up over 4 percent in our time, so good luck.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0298par0283	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0300par0285	Well, that's the minister's economics, so I'll tell you that, so that's it. So in 2002... Mr. President, this needs to be on the record.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0298par0288	For the record, please.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0300par0289	So I say, in 2002, you got a growing economy of 6.2. Now, over there, you're gonna get the year of a 2001 crisis!
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0301par0290	Take four years, four years, four years.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0300par0291	Then let him look at 2009 growth. It's coming forward, of course, our analysis. You have to look at the difference between growing up and the same countries. That's how you measure a growth performance. That's why I'm giving you those numbers. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0302par0293	Well, thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Bayraktutan, you have a request for a statement according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0303par0297	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me tell you something, Mr. Secretary of Development, who has never been involved in the matter of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration during his speech, thank you very much. I sincerely thank our Foreign Minister, who evaluated this matter during his talk -- probably thought he was abroad -- the East Black Sea. I hope that's what our Minister of Justice is going to mention in his speech, and I'd like to thank him in advance. I have an evaluation. What happened in Germany about Ayþe Nur Bahçaplı is a very sad event. Mr. President has responded, and I thank him very much. I'm probably expecting a more severe reaction from you. In a moment, when the assembly is over, you'll be out of the House, probably riding your German Mercedes home. Come, do a heroic thing, Mr. Secretary, you speak first. Say we won't ride these German Mercedes, and we'll all give you a round of applause. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0304par0302	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. You said you wanted to make a statement about Mr. Yıldırım Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0305par0305	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I have not been promised to deny you, I will make a correction. Yes, you've been asked for a seat. Why was he wanted? You were asked because our organization was too small. Otherwise, it's a hundred percent full of lies, completely false. I don't want to say it's a lie, but it's wrong, it's misinformation, because I've been there. The investment in Adıyaman has not been made recently due to the 5th and 6th incentive law. I also know that our government has been working on this, and that's what the friends have given us. At Adıyaman, plenty of space now, plenty of space in the organised industrial area. It's wrong that it's 100% full. Places that are full are also used as warehouses. Do you know how much Adıyaman is now? There's a lot of loan sharks, a lot of loan shark terror in the streets. And I think this needs to be resolved as soon as possible. Especially because of this government's wrong policies in Syria, Mr. Mevlüt Sergeant here -- there's a decline in industry in Adıyaman, there's a decline in tourism. And I'd like to offer this to your appreciation.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0306par0309	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Statistical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account The President's Office of the Gate Area [[Continue]] 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) BUILDING BUILDINGS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2015 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Academy of Justice 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2015 Congressmans, third and final speaker on behalf of the government, Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ. Your time is thirty minutes, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0307par0353	Mr. President, I have been promised to explain my views on the 2015 final account and the 2017 Justice Department budget. On this occasion, I salute you all. I wish the 2017 budget was a successful year for our country to be blessed, blessed, and to make 2017 a successful year for all the goals in the budget. And on this occasion, I would like to thank the Commission, the General Assembly, and everyone, separately. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are a democratic state of law in Turkey. At this moment, we are a country ruled by five constitutions in the Republic and one in the Ottoman era, and when we look at our constitutions, almost all of our constitutions in force have been prepared and implemented in extraordinary circumstances.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0308par0356	Now?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0307par0357	To this day, Turkey has not been able to build a new constitution under normal circumstances, in an environment where everyone feels free. The Constitution of 1982 is the Constitution and the Constitution of coup, which we are currently implementing, which has changed 112 times in 17 years since the day it took effect. Turkey could not change its current Constitution and transform Turkey into a democratic legal state. We cannot change our constitution into a country based on human rights, respecting human rights.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0309par0358	It's the practice, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0307par0359	Turkey will not be able to change this Constitution into a constitution that trusts legislation, execution, judiciary and more.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0309par0360	Does the Constitution say "Arrest the journalists"?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0307par0361	Turkey cannot change its constitution from the Constitution because at the beginning of the Constitution, it says that respect for its word and its spirit and its spirit is based on its loyalty and its commitment to its spirit. That's why you have to completely destroy this soul. So what's the cure? The solution is to build a new constitution. Without the new constitution, there will be no new Turkey. The new constitution is basically the door to the new Turkey. We can only build the new Turkey with the new Constitution. There is no one in Turkey who does not stress the need for the constitution. Parliament presented proposals by all parties in 1993, and then proposed a will on the issue with the settlement commissions established. Universitys, NGOs, trade unions, many have presented concrete new constitutional proposals, yet the new constitution was not made. In order to build a new constitution, basically everything is ready, everybody is ready, colleges are ready, civil society is ready, everyone and everyone is ready. Those who are not ready are just representatives of the nation's authority and commission by the will to make a new constitution. By acting according to the will of the nation, we may be able to build a new constitution by order of the nation. Our experience is available. If we fail the new constitution in a normal environment, we will be doing a great injustice to both Turkey and Parliament and our beloved nation. ▪ Only coupgers can succeed in building a new constitution, or a new constitution can be made after the coups. It is up to all of us to destroy the legend. We can destroy it if we want, and as free representatives of the nation, we can bring a new constitution to our nation, to our country, according to the will of our nation. Let's sign this together. Let's not force Turkey to live with the constitutions of coup and rule any longer, to put up with its shame. Even if the new constitution cannot be made, there may be some changes in the Constitution. In particular, I would like to stress on the HSYK that it would be a disaster for Turkey to have HSYK come to a third election in today's election style. I'm calling again from here: we're appealing to the great benefit of changing the HSYK election procedure by implementing a major compromise by our political parties, whose group is in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If Turkey has a third election, those who serve both the state of law and the judiciary will suffer a great deal of damage. I hope the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will prioritize the will to build a new constitution. I'm saying if we don't make it, at least we can bring things to life that are urgent. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have never been short on system debates in Turkey, they've been debated in every period. The late Ozal, the late Turkesh, the late Erbakan and Demirel, had discussed the government system for Turkey, and stressed that the system is narrow to Turkey, that a new system must be transferred to the presidential system. With a constitutional amendment to the President's election by the people in 2007 in Turkey, on August 10, 2014, the first time in the public's history that he elected the President directly began a whole new era. On the one hand, the elected President is clearly not sustainable when we look at elected government and authority. For him, it is our duty to resolve this discussion and the possible consequences that may arise from it. Therefore, we consider the call of Mr. State Gardenlı, the head of the DP, a historic call, because at this point, Turkey would have achieved the largest system change and constitutional reform in the history of the republic if it signed a major transformation as a result of this call.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0310par0367	Don't, Minister, don't!
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0307par0368	Let's support this process together as all political parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Let's get this over to the people's arbitration. I say we all stick to our nation's decision and put an end to these arguments with our nation's decision. I'd like to express a couple of issues through the presidential system, as we focus on system debates. What are we all saying? We desire the full independence of the law, the full independence of the administration, and the complete separation of one another.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0311par0370	What about judgment, judgment?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0307par0371	It's called the presidential system where there's a real separation of forces. Law enforcement is completely separate, completely independent of each other. There's strong legislation, there's effective legislation, there's strong lawmakers, there's strong execution, there's political stability. The presidential system will essentially bring a major dynamic into our politics because the failed five years later will be out of the political scene, and the successful will be out of politics in ten years, and Turkey will have the opportunity to be run with a new president every decade, even if it is run by a very successful president. Change in politics, change in governance, transformation in dynamics. I sincerely believe that this system will contribute to Turkey's strengthening, rapid and effective decision-making, and Turkey's new rise. The debate of the government system is not the debate of the regime.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0312par0373	Diet, regime!
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0307par0374	The change in government system is certainly not a change in regime. Turkey adopted and declared on October 29, 1923 that the form of governance was the republic and put an end to the discussion of the form of governance. From that day forward, neither our people nor our politics nor Parliament have had an agenda to change the way Turkey governs, I don't think it will. In fact, the will of the Turkish nation during the July 15, 2016 coup attempt was once again signed with martyr blood that Turkey's form of governance was a republic, just as it was in the beginning. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, independence and neutrality of the judiciary are one of the essential conditions of the state of law. If the judiciary is not independent and neutral in a legal state, if the conflicting citizen loses faith that the conflict will be resolved fairly when he goes to trial, it is not possible to say that the legal state exists in a strong way. The independence and neutrality of the judiciary are possible if those who serve as judges decide in accordance with the Constitution, law, law and conscience. The collateral found in our constitution is essentially an important insurance policy placed in the Constitution for our judges and prosecutors to decide without any fear, oppression, or anxiety, and in the manner required by law.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0312par0377	The judges are ordering an arrest so they don't get arrested.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0307par0378	However, the guarantee of justice and prosecution is not a guarantee that those serving as judges and prosecutors will violate the Constitution and laws; it cannot be used as a suit of armor, not as a member of any terrorist organization or as a member of any terrorist organization or as a liaison, to govern the judicial processes and to decide in judicial processes under the orders of a terrorist organization. The Fetullahist terrorist organization has done major damage to the state, to the nation, to the country, to the living, to the military, to the police, and to all areas of the public, and to the judiciary, it has done the greatest damage, and it has done the greatest damage in the judiciary. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors on the basis of the independence and judicial guarantee of the courts has decided that some judges and prosecutors, who have been appointed to serve, have lost their independence, their neutrality, will be suspended. If a judge and prosecutor have decided or decided according to the orders or instructions of the organisation, which they are engaged in, rather than making decisions based on the Constitution, law, law, and the right to decide in accordance with them, then they have lost the quality of neutrality and independence, which means they have lost the right to carry the robe worn by those who carry the qualifications. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has taken important steps to maintain the independence and neutrality of the judiciary, which is essentially the law state's requirement. As a result of his evaluation, he has decided to suspend certain judges and prosecutors. I'd like to underline this in particular, there are 18 members in the HSYK who are currently serving outside the minister, and the decision to suspend the profession is all unanimous by these 18 members. One member has not been suspended from the profession by a judge or prosecutor who has been contested by one member. This is an extremely important step. What the HSYK does is to maintain the independence and neutrality of the judiciary, to protect the state of law, to prevent the Fetullahist terrorist organization from taking the Turkish judiciary hostage, to protect the quality of the judiciary to be the nation's judiciary, to maintain the independence and neutrality of the judiciary, and to rebuild the trust in the judiciary. He's made some very important and historical decisions in this regard. I'm here to congratulate our members of the HSYK on their loyalty to the state of law, independence and neutrality of the judiciary, and thank you very much. AYKA has made a negative decision on Turkey's relations with the European Judiciary Boards Network. Why? On the grounds that the judges and prosecutors have been suspended. But I'm telling you very clearly, there's an unrestrained execution against Turkey; no one's heard, no one's heard, no one's heard, no one's made an independent and impartial decision by seeing Turkey, in the eyes of the Fetullahist terrorist organization, speaking in the language of the Fetullahist terrorist organization, in the ear of the Fetullahist terrorist group. We are never willing to let terrorist organizations poison those who associate with Turkey. No matter what they decide, it binds them, but Turkey will move on by strengthening the state of law. Once again, I find it helpful to point out that those who speak to Turkey with the mouth of the terrorist organization, those who make decisions about Turkey, have no credibility with us. Mr. President, I have a special thank-you to the judiciary here, which is that during July 15, 2016, during the coup attempt, at the first hours of which the coup was not clear whether the coup would be more successful, they claimed the death of the state of the law, the state of law, our Constitution, our democracy, the national will, by starting investigations and making detention and arrest decisions. Instead of the Turkish judiciary, which had served as a host to the coup attempt or had already committed a coup attempt, this time there was a Turkish judiciary that imposed the coup on Turkey, our law, our Constitution, our democracy. I therefore thank and thank each and every one of our attorney generals, prosecutors, prosecutors, judges, from here, each and every one of us, who owns our democracy to death, our state of law, our Constitution. As long as the Turkish judiciary upholds its law, no negativity will find power in Turkey. Mr. President, valuable MPs, there has been a huge increase in allegations and slanders that there has been abuse and torture in prisons in Turkey since the July 15, 2016 coup attempt. Just after July 15th, what did not happen in America, Europe, international publications and international organisations on July 14th suddenly grew up on July 15th, leaving all of Turkey's prisons to be blamed. How is it that after July 14th, after July 15th, Turkey's prisons were listed as an address for torture and abuse? Look, I'm being very clear. Turkey's prisons and detention sites are all under huge control, all under control, and open to all kinds of audits. When you look at prisons, the detention centers are audited by the Justice Department inspectors, on the other hand, the Criminal and Tevkifevs controllers, on the other hand, the province's state's chief prosecutors, the prosecutors in charge of the prison there, and the court of executions. The district also supervises the district's human rights boards. The Public Control Agency, Turkey's Human Rights Agency, Parliament oversees Human Rights Review Commission, and civil monitoring agencies are overseeing it. Meanwhile, the international Committee for the Protection of the European Torture (CPT) is also subject to a review by the UN Subcommittee for the Protection of Torture. We don't have a problem with that. The problem is that they blame Turkey. These have been done, and these have been done. I say once again: Give us a name, give us an address, give us an address; if we do not do what is necessary, then tell us. Say: "We have given you. Right now, we're going over whatever's in Turkey and we're doing what's necessary. Look, there are 231 files currently under investigation into these issues, ongoing investigations. I say this very clearly: We do not cover up or cover up any allegations of abuse; we do not cover up or cover up a charge of torture; we go after it, and we give it what it deserves, without hesitation. There's nothing wrong with us at this point. (AK PARTY) But we do not consent to the fact that Turkey is also accused of slander by allegations that are not fundamental. That's not gonna happen. We've been going over every subject, looking into it. For example, a valued MP just spoke here, gave me a name. These are the things about it, these are the things about it. Here's what we did. We've had a study of him, we've been asked a question, and we've answered that question, and the other thing has come to us, but he's being moved to relevant locations, and there's going to be an answer to that. Now, some people involved in a terrorist organization are doing a sit-in, where you mentioned. And they don't get up from where they're doing that sit-in. Now, there's an act going on somewhere, an action going on, they're not getting up, what are they going to do? They acted, they didn't get up, so will they pick them up and take them to the execution guard's place or not? That's what they do. And when the action is done here, they go into his arm, and take him away, and take him away, and take him away, and they do this to us, and they do this to us. Look, if it is as you say, then I will go with you, and I will go with him. But the truth is, it's not. They do things out there all the time. And I say, "Look, our prosecutors are here, the House is here, the whole place is open. How do those petitions come from there? It's from the prison. Doesn't a petition go anywhere else? He goes there, and we've certainly and decisively gone through these issues, and we'll go from there.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0313par0389	Mr. Secretary, do you have the surveillance footage or not? Believe me, they'll say no.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0307par0390	I'll tell you something else: look, we've lifted the statute of limitations on torture crimes and abuse crimes, we have. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) We picked it up. We lifted it because we trusted ourselves. What does that mean? Today the AK PARTY is in power, and after we left, another power came in, and Turkey was another thing; and we did it so that if anyone did something like that today, he would be asked to account for his mistake when he was 70 years old and 80 years old and 90 years old. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Is that possible? We rely on ourselves, and we go about these issues decisively, and then we continue to go on, just as long as we have these. From international organisations, the representative of the last United Nations came and made some evaluations. We have an impression, he says. Yeah, what's the impression? Then tell me where it is and tell me what it is. We got that impression, he says.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0314par0391	You're not showing...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0307par0392	Oh, I'm sorry. He's been all over the place, and there's not a place he can't go. We opened the door to wherever he wanted to see whoever he wanted to meet.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0315par0393	Mr. Secretary, why did you stop the Turkish rapporteur Kati Piri?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0307par0394	Ask them if there's anyone I want to see and I don't. That's what it says in your report, and it's pretty clear who you're seeing. At this point, we have a clear conscience, but we also say that it's our duty to go after those who have done wrong, and we don't wash their faces or anything like that, but we don't leave the slanders or the slandering of terrorist organizations to speak of truth, and I'll tell you that. Mr. President, a key reform in Turkey has also been launched on July 20, 2016, the establishment of law enforcement courts. It's a really big reform. The largest reforms in the field of justice during the republic's founding years have undoubtedly occurred during the Ataturk period, but then what is the biggest judicial reform? We've all worked together in this time of historic reform, wish you good luck and good luck. Mr. President, we've taken other important steps in the field of justice. It's gonna take a lot of time when I tell you about them, but I'd like to talk about a few things with the reviews. One: satisfaction in judgment. Of course, we care about satisfaction in the judiciary like everyone else, and we try to get it to higher points, but half of the citizens in charge lose their jobs, and half of them win. Is there any way you can make the satisfaction that half of them have lost and half of them have won 100 percent? And the winner can't win the way he wants.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0316par0398	Trust, trust.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0307par0399	He wants 100 liras, he'll object to 50 liras. He wanted a very high prison sentence, and when he gets less, he's uncomfortable with it. However, when you look at the numbers of 2015, we see that the satisfaction of judicial services is over 50 percent; I see it as a huge success. But when it comes to satisfaction in the judiciary, we're in trouble there, we're going after it. Here we are, making a great effort to destroy all the unsafe environments that the Fetullahist terrorist organisation has uncovered by taking the Turkish judiciary hostage, rebuild the trust of the judiciary, not the judiciary of terrorist organisations or different ideological groups, but literally a judgment of the Turkish nation and a decision making for the nation. I believe that the trust index in this area will be drawn upwards in the next process, and we will work very hard on it. We're implementing a project we know as time management in the judiciary on January 1, 2017. What does that mean? What it means is that the citizen has filed a complaint with the prosecutor or filed a lawsuit against any court, and he will be presented with a document as soon as he gives his petition, how long will his complaint be concluded by the prosecution? That's how we bring judgment to its people. The people will follow the timing of his trial, the completion of his case, and show it with the document in his hand. That will strengthen the confidence of the judiciary.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0317par0401	When are you going to do all the cases, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0307par0402	We also brought in the first-degree courts, the Supreme Court, the State, the State of Emergency, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, to write and declare it public every year, starting on January 1, 2017. Again, it will contribute to the public opinion of the judiciary and its confidence in the judiciary. On the other hand, we've brought the judge and prosecutors with us the Court's application to make a note. So he will make wrong decisions, and he will see the Supreme Court, and the Court will set aside his reasoning, and he will make the right decision, and those who make the wrong decisions will be forced to make better decisions with grades. This has been another crucial step in the establishment of confidence in the judiciary. On the other hand, we're building a bank called Forensic Data Bank. Hopefully, this will begin as of January 1, 2017. After January 1st, this database will be like Google. Our citizens -- of course, not everyone will be able to get in there, but those with certain conditions -- will have the opportunity to find all the forensic data in Turkey, to evaluate it through these data. This will also ensure that a continuous C.T. scan of the judiciary will be taken, effective audit of the judiciary by all the public, and all of which will, of course, contribute greatly to the increased confidence in the judiciary, the more meticulous and careful work of those who serve the judiciary. But I must say, despite all criticism in Turkey, judges and prosecutors who serve in the judiciary are working really hard to make a decision in accordance with the requirements of the legal state. You get a lot of criticism. No one's been criticized as much as the judgment, but they don't have the means to defend themselves. Newspapers, TVs, politicians, citizens, NGOs, everyone is criticizing them, from a bad example...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0318par0405	Mr. Secretary, there are 4,000 bad examples, 4,000 bad ones; one, not two.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0307par0406	...as if they were all created... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, Mayor, just a minute...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0319par0409	Please complete, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0307par0411	Despite all that, as I said, they serve with great sacrifice. I sincerely thank our judges and prosecutors, the pencil staff who helped them, and the other employees who served in prisons, our execution guard officers, and everyone who served in court as judges, prosecutors and assistant officers. I wish our budget was good, good luck, and I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0319par0414	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0320par0415	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0321par0416	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0319par0417	Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Hakverdi, Mr. Altay, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, everyone wants a word, so let's take turns. Mr. Beştaş, please...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0322par0419	Mr. President, we have a question-answer, we have to follow it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0319par0420	Mr. Turan, the MPs want a say in this.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0322par0421	Well, let's all ask for it, then.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0319par0422	Of course, go ahead. Yes, you may, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0322par0423	Is that all right, Mr. President? There's a question and answer, half an hour, after the government.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0323par0424	There's no such procedure, but there's a question-and-answer.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0324par0425	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0325par0426	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0324par0427	In his speech, the Minister of Justice has repeatedly called the allegations of torture a lie and a slander about the content of my speech. I'd like to exercise my right to tease you about it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0325par0428	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0326par0429	He didn't give a name.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0327par0430	In what capacity, Mr. President? Not every deputy can be asked; there's a group vice president, there's a spokesman...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0328par0431	The way I talk, the way I talk...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0329par0432	Mr. Turan, Mr. Beştaş has spoken.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0327par0433	He didn't give a name, Mr. President, please... So we did the speech in the morning.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0329par0434	Mr. Turan, please... Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0330par0438	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Justice Minister, have insisted that we have been lying and slandering. We believe that lying and slandering torture claims constitutes a major crime because right now all the prisons in Turkey are being systematically tortured at detention centers.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0331par0439	They're all lies! It's all lies!
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0330par0440	You want a concrete sample? == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man And we're asking you: The United Nations Torture Reporter arrived last week, Nils Melzer made a very serious report, and after the coup, he showed that the torture in Turkey has increased dramatically. Kati Piri was blocked when she came to study Turkey's prisons.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0331par0441	Who's Kati Piri? He's a member of the organization?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0330par0442	Human Rights Watch had a serious report of torture at the eclipses, and it was publicly reported. Again, Amnesty International has issued a report on torture. Günay Mountain, our colleague... I'm not saying anything funny, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0331par0444	He doesn't tell the truth, they don't tell the truth.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0330par0445	When he left as a lawyer, he was tortured in Maltepe Prison and his head was broken.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0332par0446	You're being provocative.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0330par0447	Besides, when I made a promise here, I made it clear. How many prison personnel have been dismissed, how many principals have been arrested, how many have been terminated after the coup attempt on July 15th? We'd like to know the answer to that. Also, according to international courts, isolation is torture, among all these tortures.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0333par0448	No lockdown.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0330par0449	He's currently in solitary confinement, including our co-chairs. We asked if you had given instructions for this. If you did, you committed this crime, and if you didn't, we expect you to correct it from here. And the fact that the sick prisoners were left there to die is not yet a matter that has been resolved. There is no torture in Turkey. The torture does not go away. You'll almost declare their international organization a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0333par0451	It's not torture to lie.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0330par0452	You're inventing cross-border terrorist organizations. There's really nothing acceptable about it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0334par0454	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş. Mr. Hakver...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0335par0456	The Minister of Justice used the expression "We do not leave shoes here for those who speak the words of the terrorist organization" after describing the incident in a different way about my speech.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0336par0457	I didn't tell you that, how can you tell from there?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0335par0458	I want to talk about bullying, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0337par0459	Here you go, and I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0335par0461	Now, Minister, after your speech, I presented the events, dates, prisons with a motion. Later, when I told you about two of those examples, you said: "What should the guards do, or the guards, or the prison guards, do? " Now, there are CCTV footage of this. The jails have cameras all over the place.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0338par0462	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0335par0463	Look, please, they may be doing a sit-in, they're convicts, maybe they're thinking differently, but the death penalty guards can take precautions under the proper circumstances. But let's pour water on the floor. Let's mop them up. Listen to him if he's recording. But I've been a lawyer for 15 years, and it's always very difficult in these cases -- these events are very difficult in the court phase -- and when the court comes to order, whatever the wisdom is, it's always broken. Please follow this, find out the truth. Learn the truth of the matter, so that it will be entrusted to us there with a bad face. If there are bad enforcers of the state that you call the people, let's clear our state. Do not allow these bad practitioners to follow it properly. You know, when they were in your care, take care of these deposits. Look, it doesn't matter why they're being tried; it's from a terrorist organization, it's from a robbery, it's from something else. Our intention is to reform them while we put them in prison, to reform them, instead of making them more hostile to the state. Please, as a proper government enforcer, follow properly. This is your responsibility, Mr. Secretary, please stay on top of it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0339par0466	Thank you, Mr. Hakver. Mr. Altay, you've entered the system.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0340par0468	Thank you, Mr. President. Our country has long had constitutional debates in public, public conscience, Parliament. The current central constitution is a coup constitution. In this regard, we, as a party, have agreed that a constitutional based on rights and freedom is the basic need of the country from the highest level to our most basic member. However, I asked for the report now, but Mr. Secretary said in his speech: "Everyone is ready for the new constitution, here is not ready."
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0341par0470	Right. I'm telling everyone the same thing.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0340par0471	Now, there are four political parties here. I don't know about other groups, but it's a taunt from our view of the Constitution based on rights and freedom in public. I mean, it's obviously a taunting of other parties, Mr. President. This Parliament consists of four groups. So it's the ruling party that isn't ready, and it's the other opposition parties. In that respect, I demand word on behalf of our group because of this bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0342par0472	Here you are, Mr. Altay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Kerestecioglu, I'll listen to you later. Your Honor, I'll give you a say in the announcement.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0343par0477	Thank you. I don't want to waste the General Assembly's time at this hour. Basically, another thing the Minister said, maybe I misunderstood, asked for the transcripts, but now he's here, I can't read them. Members of parliament, the Minister also said, "We must destroy the spirit," referring from the central constitution to the beginning of the bet. Now, maybe he missed it. Mr. Secretary, you...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0344par0482	I said the spirit of the plague, and I explained it.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0343par0483	Thanks, but that's the 1982 Constitution, which we can't possibly approve of. But both 1982 -- which is a coup in 1961 -- I have no objection, there is no difference between 1961 and 1980 -- both the constitutions after the 1961 coup, but they were kind enough to put the traces of the founding philosophy in these constitutions. I'm sure you mean here, our founder and savior, not the principles and revolutions of Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. That's what I'm telling you, just so there's an opportunity. For it is not the secular quality of the constitution or the secular quality of the state and the state of law that stands in the way of a fundamental right and freedom-based constitution. On the contrary, it is the secular quality of the state and the state of law, based on rights and freedom, which is a prerequisite of a civil, liberal constitution that this nation truly deserves. Plus, I'll tell you something I said before I ran out of time: was it -23 million that voted for you? - 23 million voters, I believe, have no problem with the fact that most of them are the secular state of the state, the legal state of the state, and our founder, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. You had a sincere, genuine proposal based on right and freedom, and we said no? No, you say, let there be one man's rule; we think it will eliminate democracy, so we say no. But by that spirit, I think it's good for you to explain that it's the spirit of the coup, which is actually a relief to me, too. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0345par0487	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Kerestecioglu, here you are, and I'll give you my word on the group for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0346par0490	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do you know how to make a new constitution? First of all, when those MPs, who you call "not ready," are not under arrest, when they are respected for the will of the people, when they are in this parliament and when they represent the will of the people. Secondly, do you know how to do it again? We don't make a new constitution to make someone president; we really make a new constitution for rights and freedoms. The public is debated, the opinion of NGOs is taken, their will is respected, and then the new constitution is made. Again, do you know how to make a constitution? It's not done in the State of Emergency, it's not done in accordance with regulations; the State of Emergency is lifted, the meeting is guaranteed, the right to demonstration, the thought, the freedom of expression, people believe they can express themselves freely, they can argue on it, this environment is provided, the new constitution is made. Again, do you know how to do it? There will be no torture claims, no new prisons will be opened, on the contrary, prisons, particularly sick prisoners, will be evacuated and new constitutions will be made. Again, how do you make a new constitution? Even lawmakers will be removed from lockdown, even postcards will be blocked, will be trusted, and will have a judicial system that is not excluded from international judicial mechanisms, and the new constitution will be made that way. So, basically, you don't make a constitution for one man, Mr. Secretary, you make a constitution for the people, you make a constitution for the freedoms, and then we all say, "We're willing to build a constitution like this." Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0347par0498	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Ilıcalı, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0348par0502	Thank you very much, my dear President. The government representing 79 million represents the most important opposition talks, budget talks, and sometimes there are situations we don't want at all. You gave me a chance to open a different window. The Erzurum Credit Days, which we opened yesterday at the Ankara Ataturk Cultural Centre, continue. So I'm inviting all of our deputies, our ministers, our presidents, to this cultural center tomorrow, and we're going to offer you a full-fledged meal. If you come, you'll make us very happy with the Erzurumians who were there. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit06spe0349par0507	Thank you, Mr. Ilican. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0349par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Statistical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account The President's Office of the Gate Area [[Continue]] 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) BUILDING BUILDINGS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2015 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Academy of Justice 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2015 The commission and the government are in place. In turn, it belongs to Mr. Dilek Ocalan, MP of Şanlıurfa, on behalf of him. Mr. Ocalan, your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0350par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the budget and budgeting process is more than a technical issue, a political process to shape social relations through the economy. The revenue of 79 million people living in Turkey is directly related to the representation of this Assembly, where, and how to use it. First of all, this budget is not the budget of workers, poor people; it is not a budget for health, education, agriculture; it is not a budget for women and women at all. Dear MPs are the anniversary of the women's right to choose and be elected in Turkey on December 5th. It is very important that women who make up half the population of society for equality and justice are able to participate in politics with equal representation. However, we see today that in this parliament, only 81 hundred and forty-four lawmakers, women, or 194 women, are displaced by male MPs. Thus, the unrepresented representation of women who work socially to produce life is one of the main reasons why the budget is prepared with a blind approach to women. The male dominant mentality, which prevents women from taking part in the decision-making mechanisms of their own power, is not expected to act any other way. This mentality is now the right of our co-chairs, along with five women who are elected by the votes of the people, especially women, representing the will of women, who should be present here in the ranks of HDP. The situation with Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahçaklı has upset us. It seems that Germany has been referred to the practices of the chosen ones in Turkey at this point. Dear lawmakers, these practices aimed at preventing women from becoming co-founders in politics, excluding women's rhetoric and their struggle savings are attempts to imprison women in their homes. In this context, targeting the women's historical achievement of co-presidential system is an attitude towards the destruction of social equality and freedom in Turkey because it is known that co-chairing is not sharing a power, a Rant and power; it is the solution to relations and issues that it reveals. So it's democracy, equality, justice, peace, freedom, in one word, the meaning of the path to honorable life. As it is known, the co-chair was applied in 2007 at the Democratic Society Party in Turkey. Despite the resistance of men at that time to share power, the women's persistent struggle has taken on a legal gain and has become institutional. The DBP municipalities, which were the first in the world, were implemented in local municipalities. Women's gains were not limited to political parties but also adopted by other mixed organisations. This practice was addressed in many places, while it was targeted in men's moldy muscles, shelters. Because those who set the goal have the ability to see this understanding as an intervention in the dominant, colonial, slave-mindedness and relationships. What they can't see is the understanding that will free them from slavery. Dear MPs, equal representation -- the co-chair system -- has a greater meaning than the representation of men and women in an institution. It's a step towards transforming the misogynistic mentality that has been created by capitalist modernity for thousands of years by exploiting women's labor. Historically, it's an important achievement for us women against the inequality between men and women, where all inequality is first produced in the world. As a result, this budget is a budget for a male militant capital. Instead of arguing about six dollars, the understanding that has led to economic collapse today is that pillow heads need to be brought to a moral and conscientious mind. An economic approach to adversity, a fair share, is possible by the will of women in decision-making mechanisms, not by the gain or imprisonment of their will. So women need to be based on their mind, their consciousness, and their savings. This consciousness will surely win and win. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0351par0057	Thank you, Mr. Ocalan. Congressmans, the talks in round four are complete. Now we're going to do the question-answer process in 20 minutes. The first ten minutes belong to the MPs, they'll ask questions. The remaining ten minutes belong to the government. I'll start now in order. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0352par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister of Justice. What is the final status of the number of judges and prosecutors who have been taken into custody, who have been detained, who have been investigated, who have been removed from their profession in Turkey, and the number of scholars in Giresun? Do these judges and prosecutors have any information that might raise suspicion about their important investigations and decisions in their cases as they carry out their duties? Do you, as the Ministry, work backwards to cover all courts? Do you have a sentence with a directive? Will retrials be brought to light in the event of a trial in these cases, which is not in line with the basics and procedures? Judge, are you getting complaints about an organization formed in the triangle of lawyers, that some cases have not been treated fairly, that criminals have been acquitted, that the innocents have been punished? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0353par0066	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0354par0067	I have two questions for the Attorney General. My first question is: Courts in Denizli Bozkurt, Bekilli, Beyyaç, Serinhisar, South, Babadağ, Honaz districts have been closed. Our citizens in these counties are in great difficulty, unable to seek their rights. When are you going to open the courts of Bozkurt, Bekilli, Beykıp, Serinhisar, South, Babadağ, Honaz districts, which were previously closed? My second question: things are slow at the courthouse, justice is late. Do you plan to increase the number of court personnel to speed this up, improve their situation? My third question to the Minister of Development: How many factories did you sell during your 14 years of power? How many new factories did you build when you sold all the factories? Explain the number of these. You said it was good to get up. Well, the investment's stopped, production and exports are down, unemployment is up. Is this the result of your development? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0355par0072	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0356par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking our Minister of Justice the first question: there was a fire last year in Urla Prison, it's been renovated, it's now been served as an open women's prison. But information is coming that the women and children lying there have serious problems with nutrition. We'd like to make a improvement on that. Again, when I visit prisons, there are demands that three meals are $5 and that this is not enough, that this meal price must be increased. I'd like to ask our Minister of Foreign Affairs if there's been any attempt by Greece to disrupt the status quo in the Aegean Sea in the period of the Kardak crisis? My second question is: As part of the Turkish Common Gas Pipeline Agreement signed by Russia, it was announced that there would be a reduction in natural gas from Russia, but there is no such reduction in the text of the agreement, and I would like to know why. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0357par0079	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0358par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. In Turkey, the penal guards, whose number is 40,000, are in a lot of financial and spiritual distress. As a violation of human rights, punishment guards are not allowed to form a union. In addition, they have to work on holidays and holidays, even though they work 24 hours a day. Do you have any work to improve the rights of correctional officers? How many suicides have occurred in prisons since 2002? How many of these have resulted in death? I'm asking the Minister of Development: it's been determined that support and assistance made through development agencies is being done to those who are close to the terrorist organization, to those who have been helped by the development agencies of businesses. What studies have been conducted regarding rehabilitating these development agencies? And a question about TÜİKbook: How many fines have been issued to individuals or institutions who have not participated in the TİK polls?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0359par0085	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0360par0086	Thank you, Mayor. My question to the Minister of Development: The BIKO company, which has been active since 1974, contributes to the country's economy and employment, is going through a very difficult process. In addition to sectoral distress, the financial sector has decided to close down the fiber plant, which is a problem for the use of loans. Last year, nearly 300 workers reported that they would produce about 200 workers again. Workers must be prevented from becoming unemployed. If credit is granted, the company will continue its work. As the government's request for an appointment is not met, it cannot be supported by banks on loan. BIKO is one of the engine companies for Niğde. Do you have any work on providing support for institutions like BIKO? My second question: Is the water source of Şekpınarı district of Ulukışla province scheduled to be brought to Ulukışla district in 2017? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0361par0090	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0362par0091	Thank you. Mr. Bozdağ, during the State of Emergency, you have discharged about 3,500 judges and prosecutors, as far as I know. When the judge is interviewing the prosecutors to fill this gap, will you again get the names of certain cults, parishes, or political parties, as it used to be, or will you actually, objectively, get the judge, the prosecutor? Second: We know that Ebru Tireli was not the last victim who was attacked simply because she was a woman and was only on the street. What criminal measures do you intend to take in this country to establish women, children's freedom to go to the streets? And thirdly, I'm asking whether the court that dropped the Blue Marmara case really decided independently, objectively, or under instructions. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0363par0096	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0364par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question will be to the Minister of Justice: Mr. Minister, a special team of 20 people from Ankara has been digging for 20 days in a building where the treasurers are told to eat their food on record, blocking the entrance of a street. It's said to be related to a mysterious murder, but this is the site, and there's no authority from the museum or the city. The cops work 24 hours a day. Today's news has also fallen to national media. I expect you to make a statement about that. My second question will be to our Foreign Minister: when will we make citizens of the common Turks? Thousands of English Turks are waiting for citizenship. We're operating in Cerablus, Syria. Turkish people await the destruction of Kandil. The logistics of this place will be cut off. When are we gonna do this? My other questions will be to the Minister of Development: unfortunately, there is no citrus in the basin-based support prepared by our Department of Agriculture. As an MP of Mersin, do you have any work on the fact that the citrus was taken to the basin-based support? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] DFI payments have been delayed again. Are you going to come up with a solution to this? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0365par0105	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0366par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. We were unfairly asked to meet with 10 of our fellow deputies, especially our co-chairs, who were arrested and kept in isolation for a political operation, and all our applications were rejected. This is the only way we can convey our voice to our fellow trustees in our country, where there is 97 percent of insecurity in the judiciary. From here, I salute all political prisoners, especially Ahmet Turk, the ring of peace. If you get a fair trial... I say to those friends, I'm sure they'll be free in the first trial. In the eyes of my people, you are heroes, history will clear you. I'm asking the Minister of Justice, how many prisoners are waiting to be released for reasons such as old age, disease? Do you have any work on these?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0367par0109	Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0368par0110	Thank you, Mayor. My question to the Minister of Justice: Mr. Secretary, in your speech, you often said, "Bring a concrete sample, show it, we'll investigate." Behcet was suspended from the fire of Aysan Sivas, and his daughter, Eren Aysan, is currently working at the Ministry of Culture, without any grounds, and then expelled from the profession. He's been looking for answers for two days, and no one's answering. The daughter of a person like Behcet Aysan, as a peace ambassador, or rather a person who fought to expose these murders, is now suspended on the grounds that he is a member of a terrorist organization. Do you have an assessment of that? My next question is, right now, it's both restricted and under control to see lawyers in prisons. Isn't that a limitation of the defense? How, for example, are you going to explain this to the United Nations? Another question: People who are waiting to be judged are at least waiting for an indictment. Do you have a trial schedule for next semester? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And also, regarding the extradition of Mr. Secretary of State Fetullah Gulen...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0369par0116	I promise Mr. Sertel, Mr. Balbay. The clock's ticking, that's why. Let's not waste anyone's time. Here you go, Mr. Sertel.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0370par0119	Mr. Ministers, you're very effective and you're in the authorities, and you can solve this problem tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, if you like. The problem is, I'm not saying to press charges that there are 15 universities that you cut ribbons together and opened, and then, for the sake of the case, have been shut down and maybe closed right away. Instead of shutting down the universities, I suggested that they be made a state; you succeeded in two things, which will be opened in İzmir. However, the professors of these closed universities are still innocent but unemployed and unable to bring bread to their families and are helpless. Really, you need to make a decision on this right away. If these people are guilty, bring them to trial, and if they're not guilty, you need to take precautions on getting these people back to work. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to ask you for the faculty on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0371par0124	Thank you, lawmakers. Now it's the ministers' turn. Here you go, whoever wants to get started.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0372par0127	Thank you very much, my dear President. First of all, Mr. Hishyar, I'd like to answer this matter of George, Hans, which has come up twice. We work with all men and men, and we cooperate, as long as it's a man and a man. But now we make decisions about Turkey according to our nation's wishes, not according to the demands of Hans (George) and outside. We do what our people say. Now, Mr. Musa Pine asked me a question about the Aegean Islands after Kardak. It's a subject of recent abuse. I want to say this once again, not only in our time, but after the Kardak crisis, especially since the day the Republic of Turkey reported to Greece in writing in 1996, there has been no change in the legal and actual state of the islands you've been talking about. It hasn't happened in our time, that's not true. I'll tell you something, when did the talks with Greece begin? There were seven rounds of talks during the Ecevit administration and during that period. We continue the talks with Greece after we come to power. So, I repeat, there has been no change in the actual and legal situation of the islands since 1996, and all of it, unfortunately, is supposedly trying to undermine the AK PARTY's power, and we don't give them bonuses. I'd like to inform the groups about this later, in the future, and let's discuss all the facts amongst ourselves. Thank you very much. Mr. Lightning, thank you very much. Hopefully, we'll give citizenship to more than 21,000 Ahiska Turks in Turkey, and our Ministry of Interior is preparing it. We will also give citizenship to Erzincan of Ukraine and to our fellow Christians. I think you're keeping a close eye on the Goody Turks. And since I've been active in politics, I've pretty much dedicated myself to the Ahjussi Turks because I know their drama. Hopefully, we'll all have to take care of them more.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0373par0132	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0372par0133	Not only in Kandil, but in the mountains in Turkey and in Sincar, we will continue to destroy the PKK -- wherever it is -- in its dens, we will continue to neutralize it. We will also bring down the mountains of Turkey upon them, and bring down the Kandil, and we will keep close watch on Sincar, and we will do what is necessary. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0374par0135	Mr. President, thank you very much. ▪ How many factories have you built? We don't build factories in public, but we support the private sector.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0375par0137	How many did you sell?
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0374par0138	In 2015, the private sector has an investment of $114 billion, and for this year, we expect to invest around $100 billion in private sectors. Of course, there's about $35 billion of our public investments at stake. The second thing is, it's for development agencies. You know, we have 26 development agencies. Of these 26 development agencies, the secretary general of 11 development agencies has been removed from their duties and 10 of them have been dismissed, completely suspended. As staff, 168 personnel were dismissed and 7 personnel were suspended. As for the support of development agencies that he has given so far, our Interior Ministry inspectors have begun to oversee all development agencies to cover all the support given so far. A clearer picture will be revealed as a result of this inspection. If there are those who provide irregular support, of course, they will each have to answer in front of the court one by one. In Niğde, a company was described as in trouble. You know, it was announced yesterday that a new 250 billion loan volume was going to be created by our Prime Minister. In particular, bank loans will use the Credit Guarantee Fund mechanism. He can apply to our banks again in this frame. Because our Loan Guarantee Fund will provide support for loans given by our banks to a certain extent. Another question, directed at the drinking water by the nation. We held a meeting two days ago with our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. We will provide the drinking water of the nation with no hesitation about it. However, our friends, of course, are looking for an easier way to make it 60km to Candypınar. If it's not possible, we'll bring the water from 60 kilometers away. Another question is, this is a basin-based issue. As you know, when these basins were being created, a support mechanism was created for the hububa. The citrus is supported under the DFIF. Again, a support mechanism will be created in 2017. Another important issue is that the narcissists in particular will receive it. Yes, the Mediterranean Exporters' Association has a 91 million-dollar purchase, which will be fully paid for next week. Therefore, there will be no debt to our exporter. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0376par0145	The question of Mr. Bektaşoglu is: how many people have been taken into custody, arrest, and judicial action in the court of law? There have been 3,820 proceedings against judges and prosecutors, 2,430 arrested. This is the case in the entire judicial administrative judiciary, including the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Prosecutor's Office, the HSYK, the first-level courts and the indictment. Of course, there are demands, expectations, criticisms, public opinion about the decisions made by those who were suspended because they were members of the organization. We, at the moment, are primarily under the Law of Law and the Law on Penalty, where there are amendments to the revampment of the trial. In our internal law and through individual application, there is the same possibility when you go to the ECHR, that there are mechanisms for resuscitation, that our citizens can use these mechanisms, that I give you one of them; that I think this CMK 311 -- says in the mind of the (1)th joke (c) -- one of the judges who participated in the law says that it is possible for the prisoner to prosecute or to do his duties in a way that requires punishment or a sentence. Who's going to judge that? The court will consider it. On the other hand, (e) there are other conditions here, if new events or new evidence have been presented, and they are alone, or given evidence, that require the defendant to be acquitted or to receive a light sentence. In fact, if there is such a possibility here, there is an arrangement in either the Penal Code or the Law of Law that allows it, and there is no need to make it legal. And when the legal arrangement is done, there's a huge legal chaos, so it would be extremely wrong to judge all the cases as if there's a shadow on all the cases right now -- on the decisions. Turkey has complaints to prosecutors around 7 million a year, more per year, no shortage. About 3 million of them are going back to the case or a process. If you look back at this, it's gonna be ten years, five years, and it's gonna be hard to transfer. And there are new complaints today, new events, current cases, all that. If a legal arrangement is made, it will cause major legal chaos in Turkey, and it will undermine the nation's trust in justice. Right now, in our system, there are regulations that are essentially going to solve these problems, there are enough provisions, so they can be run. I'd like to express that. There are courts in Denizli, which we have closed not only in Denizli, but in other provinces. Of course, we've closed the number of files for reasons such as proximity, distance.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0377par0150	Mr. Secretary, please complete.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0376par0151	Let me finish. We don't have the idea of reopening closed courthouses right now, and I suggest they don't have that kind of expectation.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0378par0153	But the citizen needs it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0376par0154	In the future, of course, what happens when circumstances change, there's no way to express it now, but we don't have a decision and we don't have to work. Thank you. Since there's not enough time for other questions, I can't...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0379par0157	The professors, Mr. Secretary... about the professors...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0380par0158	Thank you, lawmakers. Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of the budgets in the fourth round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the State Department's central management budget of 2017 will be transferred to its sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 2,680,934,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 131,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 18.870.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 107,485,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 143.535,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 12.690.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 2,963,645,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2017 were adopted by the State Department. I submit to your votes that the State Department's central administration account of 2015 will be transferred to its final accounts: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 2,686,218,060,46 Budget Expenses 2,573,328,933,25 Canceled Fund 78,916,225,09 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 33,972.902,12 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 2015 has been accepted into parts of the central administration's final account. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Development shall take part in the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 2.760.143,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,130,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 58,520.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 2,819.793,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Development was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Department of Development of the Central Management Account of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 1,179,748,085.00 Budget Expenses 1,003,295,526,70 Cancelled Grant 176,452,558,30 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Development of the Central Administration of 2015 has been adopted into parts of its final account. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Statistical Institution shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 32.75) TECHNIC ACTIVITY 1) Turkey's Statistical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 386.725,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,381,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 388.106,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2017 were adopted by the Turkish Statistical Institution. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Statistical Foundation shall be transferred to the chapters of its central management account in 2015: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 285,352.100,00 Budget Expenses 217.058.206.78 Cancelled Fund 68,293,893,22 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Statistical Agency has been accepted into parts of its fixed account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the GAP Regional Development Administration's Office shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2017: those who have not accepted... those who have not. 40.34) GAP CONTROL 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 4,551,400 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,650,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 132.373.600 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 138.575,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 137,608,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 966,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 138.575,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The GAP Regional Development Administration was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the GAP Regional Development Administration's Central Administration account of 2015 will be transferred to its chapters: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 72,974,000.00 Budget Expenses 63,923,575,40 Canceled Fund 9.050.424.60 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 72,974,000.00 Collection 67,611,443,31 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The GAP Regional Development Administration was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the President of the Eastern Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2017: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 280,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 162.267,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 162.547,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 160,506,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,040.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 162.547,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The East Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration's Presidency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the head of the Eastern Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration of 2015 will be transferred to the specific chapters of the central management account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 179,974,621,00 Budget Expenses 160,417,860.99 Cancelled Fund 19,556,760,01 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 87,356,000.00 Collection 155.218.789.59 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration's chairmanship of the 2015 central management account has been adopted as part of its final account. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Chairman of the District Development Administration of the Iconian Plain Project will be transferred to the chapters of the central management budget in 2017: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 40.55) CONTROL PROJECT CONTROL CENTER 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 250,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 184.498,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 184.748,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 29,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 183.695,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,024,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 184.748,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Coal Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Office of the District Development Administration of the Consolidated Plain Project, the division of the central management account of 2015, those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 129,504,000.00 Budget Expenses 107,639,567,41 Canceled Fund 21,864.432.59 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 93,747,000.00 Collection 127,608,986,64 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Coal Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman has been accepted as part of the final account of the central management account in 2015. I submit to your votes that the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman will be transferred to the central management budget of 2017: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 550,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 131,160,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 131,700,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 5,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 131,085,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 660,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 131,700,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman of the 2015 Central Administration's final account will be transferred to the chapters: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 70.011.383.54 Budget Expenses 65.037.663.25 Canceled Fund 4,973,720,29 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimated 67.694,000.00 Collection 66.063.847.32 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration's chairmanship of 2015 is considered part of the final account of central management. The Ministry of Justice in 2017...
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0381par0379	Mr. President, we have a roll call, because it's the Justice Department. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2016-12-09sit07spe0380par0380	We've got a roll call. I'll do the roll call. I'll read your name, Mr. Lawmakers, please take your seats. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Çelik, Mr. Adıyaman, Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Ertan, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Öcalan, Mr. Atash, Mr. Önlü, Mr. Yiçtalp, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Irgat, Mr. Capakli, Mr. Dora, Mr. Geveri. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2015 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Statistical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey Statistical Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account The President's Office of the Gate Area [[Continue]] 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) BUILDING BUILDINGS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2015 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Academy of Justice 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2015 I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Justice shall take part in the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 2.011.897,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 224,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 10,292.244,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Gen. TOPLAM 12.304.365,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2017 were adopted by the Ministry of Justice. I submit to your votes that the Department of Justice's Central Management account of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 8.467.458.567.44 Budget Expenses 9.846.934.125.73 Costs 1.430.630.942.33 Canceled Fund 51,155,384.04 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Justice of Justice, 2015, has been accepted into parts of the central administration's final account. I submit to your votes that the Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes of Prisons shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2017: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.41) BUILDING BUILDINGS OF CONTROL WITH PRISON AND EXECUTIONS 1) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2017 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.075.795,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 1.075.795,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 01 Tax revenues 500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 61.432,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 992.797,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 21.555,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings 11,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Ret and Returns - 500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,075,795,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons were adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes of the Prisons shall be transferred into the chapters of the central management account of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons 2015 Central Management Term (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 2,498,778,000.00 Budget Expenses 2.257.008.231.15 Canceled Fund 241,769,768,85 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 905,250,000.00 Collection 2,438,764.950,92 Rejections 1.599.146.09 Net Collection 2.437.165.804,83 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Department of Corrections and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes of Prisons were adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Academy of Justice shall take part in the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 40.10) THE ACTION OF TURKEY 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2017 03 Public Order and Security Services 22.244,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 22.244,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 787,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 287,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 22.244,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2017 were adopted by the Turkish Justice Academy. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Academy of Justice shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Academy of Justice 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 21,533.00 Budget Expenses 19,111,289.80 Canceled Fund 2,421,710,20 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 18,938,000.00 Collection 19,751,206,21 Rejection and Refundance 80.00 Net Collection 19,751,126,21 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Turkey's Justice Academy has been accepted into parts of its final account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors take part in the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 23) AGENTS AND AGENTS BUILDING 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2017 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 61.236,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 61.236,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2015 be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 44,451,000,00 Budget Expenses 43,498,403,50 Canceled Fund 952.596.50 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has been approved as part of the final account of central management in 2015. Members of parliament, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the fourth round have been approved. I wish them well. The fourth round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Saturday (December 10th 2016) to discuss the budget and precise accounts of the organisations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
