tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Showing banners from HDP rows]] III. Exposure We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Syrian asylum seekers and Uçak and Uçak MP Özkan Yılim, who asked for word on the effects of Turkey's economy. Here you go, Mr. Yum. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0002par0018	Mr. President, I have taken a stand outside the agenda of the economic and social problems created by the Syrian asylum seekers in our village and in our country. I salute you all with respect and love. On Monday, my condolences to our brothers and citizens who lost their lives in Sultanahmet Square, who were killed in today's treacherous terrorist attack in Diyarbakir, Allah's mercy, urgent healings for the wounded, and to their families who remained behind. Dear MPs, it is a responsibility, of course, to take care of Syrian asylum seekers as a state after the internal turmoil in Syria in 2011. As Syrian asylum seekers began to settle from tent cities to cities, the problems began to grow day after day, causing our own people's work spaces to shrink. Instead of reducing unemployment in our country, it's increasing day by day. Thousands of people have asked me for work in my district, the Butler. Now, Syrian citizens are asked to be granted a work permit. What does that mean? It means more people will be out of work. Yes, government officials, how should I respond to my servants asking me for a job? I'm sorry the Syrians took your job. Are we going to tell them? It is not the Syrian asylum seekers who are to blame, but the current power. From March 2011 to today, the number of Syrian asylum seekers registered in our country is 2,421,523, and the economic cost it brings to our country is $8 billion. It is known that only 455 million dollars are provided as support from Europe. Dear lawmakers, what's $8 billion? It's hundreds of factories that will provide jobs for thousands of people. Registered Syrian asylum seekers receive $700 a month in cash per person. In addition, Syrian asylum seekers benefit from health services free of charge, even buy foreign brand glasses free of charge, and don't pay for the drugs they receive. However, when our tradesmen and farmers cannot deposit their BUG-KUR for two months, they cannot receive health care and are also victims. So, if you have money, be good, or else you'll be alone with the disease, and the rest will be up to God. Syrian youths living in our country can easily move into universities, and our sons have been rotting elbows for years, preparing for stressful exams, but they remain exposed because of limited quota. Syrian university students receive $1,200 a month, although they are also exempt from college fees, while our children receive only $400 a month scholarships and have to pay their own tuition. Where is the right and justice of this, I'd like to ask you, dear lawmakers. Yes, my dear congressman friends, I'm afraid the government is responsible for the drowning of Syrian asylum seekers in the sea through human traffickers. Because if the exits in the cities were controlled, there wouldn't be any such deaths as the Aylan baby, and the whole world wouldn't have wept over this painful drama. It is still the government's fault that the asylum seekers will be given the right to work while our unemployed youths remain. For the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, this has made our citizens second-class citizens, a total failure. The AKP government is leading citizens of the Republic of Turkey to greater unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen of law, members of power are throwing our country into the ring of fire to achieve their own personal ambitions. In order to get mayoral love and 400 MPs, we also see that your policy every day to make Syrian asylum seekers citizens is vote hunting. If the Syrian asylum seekers are granted citizenship, it is seen today that there will be Syrian-based mayors in many of our cities and districts, particularly in Kilis. Mr. President, while completing my remarks, I strongly condemn the first fascist dictator of our party, Mr. Ismet Inönu, the 2nd President of the Republic of Turkey and the President of the Republic of Turkey, and I say to him: "You don't need to look away from the dictator." If it weren't for Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Ismet Inönu and Turkish armies who paid for his country, you wouldn't be under this roof today, Deputy, and your name wouldn't be Mehmet. With these thoughts, I salute the High Council and all our fellow citizens who follow us on their screens with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0003par0031	Thank you, Mr. Yum. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Istanbul MP Garo Paylan, who asked about Hrant Dink's murder. Here you go, Mr. Paylan, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0004par0035	Mr. President, it's the lawmakers. [[x]] Hrant offered to look at the black box of this state, the great disaster that happened to Dink's people. He did it in the language of peace. He suggested confrontation and recovery. That, unfortunately, disturbed the establishment. As in these days, the children should not die. As in the days when even those who say, "Peace be with you." As in which investigations have been launched, Hrant Dink's request for peace, the demand for confrontation, unfortunately, has been condemned by the ministers of this country, the media, by the Joint Chiefs of Staff as an insult to Turkishness, and his judiciary Hrant Dink has condemned a peace dove such as Hrant Dink for defaming Turkishism. Hrant Dink was called to İstanbul Governor at the time and threatened by MIT officials, and he was told to watch his feet. All units of the state were murdered in front of the Agos newspaper on January 19, 2007, as well as known by Gendarme intelligence, Security Intelligence, MIT and all intelligence officials. The murderer was sent off by intelligence officers from Tripoli Pelitli, who had been met by intelligence officers in İstanbul, and was now murdered in the presence of intelligence officers, as his documents were now found. It will be nine years on Tuesday; on Tuesday we will make the memorial of Hrant Dink, where Hrant Dink fell, and I will speak in that way today. You've put that gang in front of us in Tripoli Pelitli for nine years, and we've been facing a theatre for nine years. They say: "We have caught the murderer, we have put him in front of you." For nine years, we say, "Kill him." We say, "Let him be judged, because one Hrant Dink murder can be the case of the cleansing of this state." In the AKP's ruling period, our counts as defendants have been promoted, as we say, "Kill." The police commissioner of the period was made governor, the governor of the period became Minister of Interior, and the judge who condemned Hrant Dink for defamation of Turkishism was ombudsman in this country. Look, this is still going on. Finally, a brave prosecutor brought forward an indictment that revealed integrated responsibility for public officials. 26 people have been identified as defendants. Not exactly the way we wanted them to, but he put out a lot of public officials and they were going to be tried for not being in the way that he knew about the murder. That bothered someone again because some of those public servants are still on duty. I'll give you an example: the head of the former Tripoli Intelligence Agency, Engin Dinc, is currently the head of the Intelligence Agency, who is still in fact the head of the Intelligence Agency, who will look into the intelligence of many murders such as the Hrant Dink murder. So if one of us is to be touched tomorrow, this intel will go through Engin Dinç, who is now the defendant in the Hrant Dink case. Engin Dinç, who is now the defendant in the Hrant Dink case again, is still head of the Intelligence Agency, just as some intelligence was buried in those days. When we finally said that this case was going to begin, when the public officials' joint responsibility would be revealed, the prosecutor, who had been dismissed twice, finally brought up the indictment, but five days ago, this prosecutor, this brave prosecutor, was dismissed. This is a sign that this case may come back to life. We're responsible for clearing the way for these confrontations. From that point of view, this House is on a mission. Hrant Dink's murder... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's open him up, bring the civil servants to justice. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0005par0044	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. The third non-responsive statement is from Erzurum MP Mustafa Ilıcallı, who wants to talk about state support for free public transport journeys. Here you are, Mr. Ilıcalı. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0006par0050	Mr. President, I'd like to share a matter before I address your committee with my compliments. In the 22nd term, I was a member of the legislature, nearly five years. This is my second proxy. I've been a congressman for about two months, and I want to express my regret and desire. This Parliament is a representative of 78 million of our 780,000 square kilometers of country. Here, with the power of millions of people who voted for us, we need to solve their problems. I'd like to have a nice working environment here in a kind of tolerance that none of us would like in those two months. We all have the responsibility of opposition, the responsibility of power. I'm Erzurum MP, and a lot of our citizens have problems in our region, and I know you do, too. I say we sit here, work, work out a solution, and in that sense, basically, we're in the right place. While we're campaigning, I know that many of our citizens have expressed their complaints to you about these free public transport trips. Here, at Erzurum, my brother-in-law, I snore when I get on the bus... you get on a stop. Why are you getting on? At least don't get in at the picnic hour... when we look at the business manager, the private public bus operator, the municipalities, they're all holding a certain one here, and they say they're hurting too. Therefore, it is our government who will solve it. In that sense, I'll give you a summary from the past to this time: The law published in January 19, 2002 and the Official Gazette 24645 allowed veterans and relatives to travel for free. Later, it was given to those over 65 years of age by the law published in August 2, 2013 and 288726. Of course, given such an opportunity, our citizen -- of course the state, the social state, will act according to these principles -- began to take advantage of it. There were problems this time, and we're doing damage. We're being seen as our citizen. I even made an honorary inspector at Erzurum. I recorded it with my camera. After all, our government, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy, has taken a look at this, thanks to a study. They later reported it to the Finance Ministry, and it was agreed to be granted state support according to the law published on April 7, 2015 and Official Gazette 29319. Now, after this was given -- after April 7th -- they had debates about how long it would be, whether it was a passenger or a smart card. In the end, with my thirty-five years of professional experience, with very solid data on Istanbul transport, we did a regulation study, as Mr. Finance Minister asked us to do a fundamental work on this regulation, and we saw that we had the figures of Istanbul City, Ankara City, and other major city municipalities in order to be fair in this regulation study. The following is: These figures, for example, are 10 per cent in Ankara, up to 20 per cent in Istanbul. I mean, these are great journeys. Istanbul has 23 million journeys -- for an idea -- including pedestrian journeys, 10 million motor vehicles are being traveled. Five thousand, tens of thousands, that's all the numbers, if you count the tools of IETTA and private public buses alone. After all, we've made the average of them, and we've submitted them to the Minister. The sector has come to us. When the sector comes, we can't be indifferent. We thank the Minister of Finance here, Mr. Minister, in person- our government. These figures will also be taken to the fort for Istanbul -- a thousand lira per vehicle, a journey for the marine vehicle, are already very low, they are in great trouble -- 750 lira in other urban municipalities; and a monthly support per vehicle, including $600 in all other municipal municipalities, will be paid collectively, and it will also be paid for very important operators from 7 April 2015. For example, public transportation in my area doesn't make a lot of money. That figure is important, its influence is very important on the tradesman, here is important to Erzurum's economy, Ýz Izmira is important, Istanbul is important. Such support has been given. I don't know, our 550 deputies here, did you know... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...as the last of our Finance Ministry's regulations came into effect on January 6th? This will be a support for the entrepreneurs, in terms of public transportation, to ensure that our valued citizens, who benefit from this right, will ride with pride and honor. I wanted to speak out of the question, and I want to thank our esteemed President, who promised me, for finding this very meaningful and important. And from now on, I'm going to share with you the important issues of transportation, traffic, and security. And this year, for all of us -- everyone who's been here has received new assignments, our president, the Presidential Court, you -- I wish that it would lead to good, successful work. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0007par0058	Thank you, Mr. Ilican. I'm going to make a commitment to lawmakers who are entering the electronic system demanding a word by keeping an eye on the order of demand. I'm starting the promise process. Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0008par0064	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers said yesterday that they were unable and unable to pay the growing BUG-KUR bonuses by calling me with Ahmet Gültekin, a fellow manager of the Manav Chamber of Manavs, who sold mobile lemons in Salihli. The minimum wage has increased, but with that, the tradesmen and farmers will pay BUG-KUR bonuses. According to this, the lowest tradesmen's salary of $439 rose to $568, the lowest farmers' premium of $322, to $436. The rate of increase in bonuses is 35 percent. With these increases, 110 lira state support for the employee he employs will be taken back from the shop with a BUG-KUR bonus increase. It would be the right decision to also give bonus support to the merchants and farmers to avoid frequently pardoned bonus debts. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0007par0066	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0009par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, on January 12, 2016, a massacre was carried out by ISIS terror organization in İstanbul Sultanahmet Square and 10 people were killed and dozens were injured in the massacre. In his statement following the action, he was not a person who was under surveillance, but a person who normally entered Turkey as a refugee, such as an asylum seeker, made a statement. A few weeks ago, I filed a question motion and pointed it out, but I'm afraid I still haven't heard back. But as far as it's concerned, no measures have been taken. What measures are being taken to prevent terrorist organizations from passing through Syria as refugees to Turkey? I'd like to ask for sensitivity in this matter. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0010par0072	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0011par0074	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to give the AKP government some intelligence information that has reached us: One, let the children not die, nor let the mothers weep. There is a terrorist organization under the name. This organization is preparing a coup. Among members of the organization are so-called teachers, so-called television servers, and terrorists in civilian public appearances. 2) A group of illustrators have formed a terrorist organization under the code name Peace. This organization is also preparing for a coup. Several so-called professors are among the members of the organisation. 3) We will shed blood and shower in flowing blood. The person who says, "The AKP wants to become a deputy minister, even a minister." I request that these intel be evaluated and taken into account the necessary measures.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0012par0080	Mr. Bonekara...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0013par0082	Mr. President, a lie is a phenomenon where all beliefs and the universal values of humanity reject and accept sin. Lord Ali has a good saying: "Be without tongue, but do not be a liar. " For days, there are those who lie over pit terror, there are those who lie about PKK terrorism, there are those who tell lies about terrorist attacks, and there are those who tell lies about terrorist attacks so they don't talk about PKK terrorism. I condemn those who lied to the terrorist organization that was drowning in the blood it spilled, who claimed responsibility for PKK's PR. Those who threatened to move terrorism to the West.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0012par0084	Mr. Mountain... Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0014par0086	Mr. Mountain was here, Mr. President, in the back.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0015par0088	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, who have been responsible for years of terrorism in our country, especially in our eastern and southeast provinces, have recently issued a statement against the PKK terrorist organization, who murdered our three children and our young in the arson yesterday, fearing to make a single statement against the PKK terrorist organization. In the declaration, they lied that the state had committed a massacre against all the people of the region, especially the Kurdish people, and that it had followed a conscious exile policy. This PKK sympathizer, one of the so-called academics, went further and described our President as an aspiring leader of Hitler. By legitimizing terror to himself, his people, the President of his country, and his own state with such hostile, despicable understanding...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0012par0090	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0016par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey has burning problems that are ignored. One of them is violence and one is drugs. Both, unfortunately, are targeting our young because the AKP is leaving the young people alone in these matters. I'll give you a concrete example: Two weeks ago, a young brother of ours was murdered by a man who was using drugs in front of his wife. The Gemlik people and many NGOs also held a large march last Sunday. But in this march, there was no AKP MP, no manager, no mayor, and no manager, unfortunately. The great Ataturk says: "It is a very high being that every mind is incapable of understanding. " Now I ask you: When will you get rid of this weakness, when will you understand youth, when will you be with it, and when will you be with it, and have a firm attitude to fight drugs, do you have a road map? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0017par0096	Mr. Hakver...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0018par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, we were in Aksaray on Monday -- alone, this, please, don't confuse it with the runaway palace -- we were in Aksaray Province and joined the Ethem Sarısuluk case. The case file on which Ahmet Şahbaz was tried has been moved from Ankara to Aksaray for security reasons. Our Ankara Governor has suggested that this case will not ensure the safety of this case, and by the decision of the Supreme Court, this case has been moved to Aksaray. We say: "I have given this case, not to our province of Aksaray. If you carry it to the fugitive palace, you will not be able to save the murderer from account.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0019par0101	Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0020par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. The National Ministry of Education and Human Rights and Freedoms Humanitarian Aid Foundation co-operated as part of the Orphaned Brother Project of each Class, which raises funds from students in the name of human aid. For at least a year, the class that participates in the campaign has to commit to collecting $90 each month. There are allegations that school principals and class branch teachers are being pressured to receive help at school. I'd like to ask the Minister of National Education if there are teachers and administrators who complain that the pressure has been imposed on them because they refuse to collect donations and assistance. Has there been any administrative and judicial action against those who have complained and been charged?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0021par0106	Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0022par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Ilhan Isbilen, who was sitting in the same row with you and perhaps contributed to his election by you, was your MP. He is currently in prison in Ankara, aimed at eradication of constitutional order during your parliamentary term. Were the MPs who would then resign from the AKP or those who would act on their conscience knowing the facts against the AKP arrested because of pressure and intimidation policy? Secondly, it's much more critical now: Kazim Avcı, a consultant for Human Resources at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the same way, he was taken to Parliament during your administration, currently members of Parliament and is currently under arrest in Ankara Sincan Prison, under arrest for membership in a terrorist organization. Again, are you going to commit terrorism aiding and abetting the minister who hired this from another agency...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0023par0111	Bravo.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0022par0113	Or is the entire government here an accomplice to this crime? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0024par0115	Mr. Bozkurt...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0025par0117	Mr. President, Mr. President is always stealing from the government. On November 24th, when the Russian plane was shot down, we shot down a Russian plane at the crack of dawn. Finally, the statement that 18 ISIS militants were killed in an ISIS attack in Başika was rejected, denied by Iraqi authorities. I call upon our esteemed government to continue its mission within the constitutional limits, without overstepping its authority and without stealing from the government.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0024par0119	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0026par0121	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I condemn the traitorous attack on Chinar, and ask God's mercy on the people who have lost their lives. The corporate personality of villages within the district of Beykoz has been removed by the temporary clause of Law 6360. However, despite the fact that the tax, tuition and accession to drink and use water should not be taken from citizens in Beykoz district for five years regardless of the provisions of the relevant law, the city of Beykoz insists that its legal personality has been removed and turned into a neighborhood, and that it will not be able to compensate for the loss of citizens. At the usual city council meeting on December 7, 2015, the mayor stated that he would not take a stance on the solution of the problem, but would continue the arbitrary practices despite the law. I demand that we do what is necessary in this matter, and that the victims of the subject be dealt with immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0027par0124	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0028par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. According to a statement issued by Edirne Governorate, three Syrian 58 refugees and three human traffickers, including several children, were arrested in three parts of the Meric River, which formed the Turkish-Greek border the previous day in Edirne province. This remains a serious problem in our country and Edirne. Strangers living legally and illegally in Turkey want to go to European countries, so Greece and Bulgaria, who are members of the European Union, are being brought to or to our border- next-door province in various ways. Since the criminal code of human trafficking is not effectively implemented, the organisers continue to act. The illegal immigrants who came to Edirne have also caused problems in villages, especially in the Meric River, trying to cross the border. I'm calling the government on this. We can't live in our villages anymore, there are immigrants lying in mosques. I want this matter resolved. A great human tragedy is happening in our region. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0029par0130	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0030par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. About 18 villages will be underwater due to the Sungurlu dam planned to be built in the district of Kandıra because of Istanbul's need for water, and nearly 5,000 of our people will be victims. Tons of milk, nuts, white meat will be destroyed. In addition, this project does not comply with the law to protect agricultural land. Mr. Minister Veysel Eroglu once said that until 2071, Istanbul does not need water. If it is not needed by 2071, why is this dam, which is thirty years old, persistent? Where are all our citizens supposed to be shown to live? Also, because of this 15-year-long dam project, the crane hunters are also in operation and are collecting these land cheaply. Among these collectors are some politicians and others close to Mr. Eroglu. Who buys these land cheaply? The Kandura people are wondering about this.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0031par0135	Mr. Haberal...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0032par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. On 14 January 2016, our number of martyrs rose to 17. Yesterday, representatives of the baby killer claimed the lives of three children and five of our citizens were killed, and one of our police officers was killed. Those who endanger our earned independence by blood should not think that no matter where they are, that betrayal of the future of Turkey will go unrequited and unrequited. Traitors who have done all sorts of provocations under the cry for peace will pay the Turkish nation in full. The guilt of this betrayal will be severely seen by the Turkish nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0033par0140	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0034par0142	Mr. President, thank you. Forestry workers are temporarily employed for a month or two months for planting and so on. For this purpose, workers are employed at the Wartepe Forest Company of our province. However, they are not insured. Workers who already work on very low wages are asked to make their own insurance transactions and deposit their own insurance premiums. Our fellow citizens from the Warpepe are complaining about it. According to the latest labour force statistics published by TİK on December 15th, our country has an off-the-book running rate of about 35 per cent. The government, which has to prevent off the record, can't employ uninsured workers. The end of this practice in forestry work must be moved immediately to a working order where wages will be determined mutually, where occupational health and safety practices will be implemented, where social security records will be properly conducted. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0035par0147	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0036par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. In front of you, Dersaadet, who has been the capital of the world for nearly 2,000 years, at the Istanbul Conqueror center yesterday, I condemn and condemn the murder of children by the PKK terror organization, which was fed from the same focal points, again in your presence. Hopefully, we'll handle these attacks on our civilization and our nation side by side with the Kurds of the nation and bury the pages of history together. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0037par0151	Mr. Dalkulic...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0038par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish God's mercy to those who lost their lives yesterday in the traitorous and despicable attack on Diyarbakir Çınar. Three of them are children. When Mr. Garo just made a promise, I really wanted to know how he felt about the kids. There were dead babies and children there, too. Therefore, I curse every kind of terror from here once. And a statement like the palace of the militia was just used. It is a district of the nation, and it is the Republic of the Republic. The name of the place is now clear. The lawmakers here know what the White Palace is, and so do the people. The name of the Republic is registered and represents the state and the nation. I'll buy it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0039par0158	Mr. Sertel...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0040par0160	Mr. President, I have an ID number for the Republic of Turkey, and I believe it's in all the records of the state; it's in the MIT, it's in the police. However, Burhaniye Police Director Tuncay Oran asked for my identity number, and the reason is that I need permission to speak at the Agenda of Turkey, Media and Press Freedom Conference, which will be organised by the Ataturkist Thought Association in Burhaniye on 23 January. I'll go there and speak as an invitation to the ADD. If this commissioner wants an ID number for a congressman to speak at a conference, well, woe to our people! Also, I want to remind Izmir Police Director Celal Longkayaya, who uses his constitutional rights in İzmir, who has detained mining workers who do sit-ins without using slogans, who have increased pressure policy on students, young people: be state police, act by the law, be the police of the people, not AKP. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0041par0163	Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0042par0165	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, one of the world's most productive farmland, the Sevenkule Bostans, are now facing destruction. Currently, it has been breached with bulldozers and ladles, and some of the botanists and some of the NGOs have been beaten up, and there are serious problems. The historical heritage must be protected and represented with all its temporal, cultural and natural layers, including today. Since this is one of the most fundamental tasks of our state, this practice in the Sevenkule Bostians must be removed immediately. And considering that architects, city planners, and universities are involved in a new project, or that our elementary-school students in Istanbul are forced to live almost without being able to go out of their homes today, it may be possible to do a study for those students, as well as with the Ministry of National Education. I demand that the efforts necessary to protect these bostians, one of the latest examples of advanced technology and hard-working Ottoman agriculture, be done immediately.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0043par0168	Mr. Mountain...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0044par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Last night, I curse simultaneous attacks by terrorists in Çınar district of Diyarbakır province to the District Security Directorate, the Police Command and police quarters. For those who have lost their lives after this vile and vile attack, I pray to God for mercy, condolences to their relatives, and immediate healing for the wounded. The PKK continues to slaughter babies, innocents, women. I also curse those who remain silent in the face of this vileness, who attempt to legitimize it with them. We saw once again how right the state was at the point of counterterrorism last night. Are the so-called academics, those who support these so-called academics with their headlines, and those who claim these so-called academics, who describe the state's fight against terrorism, such as the word "Cathliam", "due to this vile attack last night?" Let our nation know that terror and terrorists will be fought to the end, and baby killers will get what they deserve. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0045par0174	Thank you. Mr. Sky, I believe you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0046par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. After the attacks carried out by Sultanahmet in Turkey's southeastern Turkey's southeastern Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey's southeastern Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey. Unfortunately, in the fight against terrorism carried out by the state that has been in Diyarbakır for over a month now, it stands as a huge weakness in itself to a security unit that terrorism should ensure our safety. There were also attacks on other security forces who went to help there after the attack. We've been having some really bad paintings. We will never allow terrorism to disrupt Turkey's unity. ISIS terror, PKK terrorism, DHKP-C whoever it is, it's never possible for anyone to get anywhere with guns or terrorism. We, the Republican People's Party, ask God's mercy to all our citizens who died in an attack on the police station in Çınar district of Diyarbakır province. But there's obviously a serious weakness involved. I think it's imperative that the government inform our House on this matter. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0047par0183	Thank you, Mr. Sky. We pray for God's mercy to our fallen police and to our fallen citizens, our nation's patience and our condolences. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0048par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists fired a long-barreled gun at the General Staff in Çınar district of Diyarbakır district yesterday, also launched an attack on the District Security Directorate with bomb-loaded vehicles, rocket launchers and long-barreled weapons. A two-story house near the police station collapsed, and the attack left two police relatives and three of our citizens killed in a cave-in in the building near the building. We have learned that 43 others have been injured, including six police officers and eight police relatives. We're also learning that there's a baby and a woman amongst the lifeless bodies removed from the wreckage. Dear lawmakers, terrorism is the most violent and lowest form of war. Terror is an act of breaking will; terrorism is an act of breaking the unity and unity of the Turkish nation and the will of the Republic of Turkey. The most important task here falls to the government. Only a collective, comprehensive and decisive fight against terrorism can be fought, terror overcome. We expect a decisive, consistent and effective fight from the government. And the weakness of security must be removed as soon as possible. I strongly condemn and curse these terrorist attacks and all the attacks, and I pray for God's mercy and healing for our fallen citizens. Again, on this occasion, we commemorated the late Rauf Denktas yesterday. Tomorrow is also the anniversary of the death of the Turkish Cypriot leader Dr. Fazil Küçük. Fadıl Küçük is an insufferable defender of the Turkish presence in Cyprus since his youth. Fadıl Küçük has a safe place in the Turkish nation's mind and heart in his struggle for an independent Turkish state in Cyprus. His idea line is a road map of the depression of the Turkish Cypriot era today because he is a man of the state and a struggle that does not mix national issues with personal issues. His words of himself are a lesson to the government rulers of today: "This war, which I joined as a humble member of the community, believes that my share is no more than a peasant, a cityman, a worker, and I did it, and I did it."
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0049par0195	Finish your words, Mr. Akçay, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0048par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not... I'm not going out. In spite of my strength, I will try to expose what was done in this regard to generations today and tomorrow. We won't forget Fazil Little, Rauf Denktas and many heroes who struggle for existence in the Turkish, homeland, flag, sovereignty and persecution. On this occasion, this great trial dedicated to the existence of the Turkish Cypriots, and once again, I remember the man of state with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0050par0200	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0051par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're going through a very painful process, unfortunately, regarding the overthrow of the solution table and the conflict and the war process that our country has been involved in for a long time. The day goes by so that our hearts may not burn with the news of death, and we may not be shaken as a whole society by the sad news that comes every day. Unfortunately, despite all the calls that have been made on this subject for a long time, we continue to suffer the consequences of the ongoing conflict, chaos, and the war process as a whole country, as a whole society. While the pain of the deaths in Diyarbakir, Sur, Cizre, and Silopi were on our hearts, we were all shaken by a new pain as a result of an attack from the district of Çınar of Diyarbakır yesterday, while the suffering of visiting citizens who lost their lives along with the bomb that exploded in Sultanahmet. Yesterday, in the attack in Çınar district, the knowledge that six citizens have lost their lives, including their children, and that nearly 40 people have been injured has left us deeply, deeply shaken. In the first place, we pray for God's mercy to all those who lost their lives, our condolences to all our people, and urgent healings to the wounded. We, especially during this process, have made our position clear as the People's Democratic Party about all the actions that civilians lost their lives, especially women and children. We have repeatedly expressed that no action, no attack, no concept, no security policy should cause the deaths of women, children, babies; regardless of the identity of the person who died or killed in this regard, we are in a principled and unacceptable position as HDP, and today we want to rephrase our principled position here. We have to solve these problems with a rational mind rather than agitate them with the word "supervised" here. I'd like to remind all the lawmakers here once again of the Miray baby's condition, which we've been trying to demonstrate for the past three weeks is an understanding that has kept his body waiting in the hospital. The three-month-old Miray baby who was murdered 21 days ago...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0052par0209	Finish your words, Mr. Bauken, and I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0051par0210	...his funeral is still waiting to be buried at Cizre State Hospital, and his family is still waiting for a solution from parliament, from the political institution for this crime. I respect the opinion of all lawmakers, but I remind you again that we must have a principled attitude regarding the deaths of babies and children, regardless of the identity of the deceased and the deceased, and I call on the entire House to be sensitive to the human crime of the baby Miray. I would like to remind you once again that the solution to all the problems that have happened today is negotiations and peace, that there is no more suffering, that the bloodshed of blood is the greatest disaster that can be done to this country; instead of security war policies, I would like to reiterate the call for a return to peace-making solutions and negotiating policies. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0053par0213	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. And I, Miray, wish the baby God's mercy, his family patience, and my condolences. Mr. Bostanci, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0054par0220	Mr. President, thank you. In the wake of a terrorist attack on police quarters and police stations in Diyarbakir Çınar, on Wednesday (January 13th), police officer Mehmet Shenol Çerç has been killed, one police wife, one police child, three civilians, six people have been killed as a result of this terrorist attack. 39 people have been injured; 25 of the injured have been identified as civilians, 4 as police wives, 4 as police children, 6 as police officers. Of the six dead, one is a six - month - old baby, one is a one - year - old baby, and the other is a five - year - old child. Of course, I would strongly condemn this terrorist attack, and I would like to point out to you that it is clear to you that there can't be any consequences by the act of terrorism, that there are countless examples of terrorist attacks in the past, that can't be reached in the same way over and over again. In Turkey, democratic grounds are clear, rights-seeking pathways are open. Whoever wants to say what he wants to say, whatever kind of offer he wants to make, politically, he can raise his voice in these places, he can speak his mind to the public, he can legally fight it. While these roads are open for various reasons, we face a political, illegitimate terrorist organization who wants to turn people against each other in the form of terror and create an ethnic identity and consciousness out of this hostility, while the same ethnic identity and identity is in the form of a special political and ideological identity, which does not conform to it. I want to say that their problem is that these terrorist enterprises are not the solution, that there is no peace, that this country is not the union; that they are the enemies of people through blood and violence, by creating fault lines, by creating gaps, by turning people against each other, by using blood and violence to pursue a dream.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0055par0225	Mr. Bostanci, I'm going to turn on your microphone, please complete your statement.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0054par0226	Sadly, young people, 18, 20, 22 years of age, are being brainwashed and channeled into this path, and their lives are wanted to be used both when and when they are killed by a dirty political ideology. We don't like any death in this country, we want to embrace all the people of this country. Of course, those who commit terrorist attacks against society and the state will give the appropriate response, but in anger, not out of spite, not out of necessity, and the main duty of the state is to ensure that these children, whose brains are being brainwashed, used, used, put forwarded, even wanted to take advantage of their deaths, will survive if possible. In the east, in the southeast, I kiss those noble security guards, who continue to fight terrorism, who are not hostile, who only have to resort to the legitimate violence of the state when they have no other means to challenge the challenge, but other than that, I kiss those noble men who are willing to capture and bring every section of them before the law, who are fighting this war with a permanent understanding.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0055par0229	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Commission for Parliamentary Research, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk of the Council for the Investigation of Divorce Events With Negative Family Compulsives, and Investigation of the Family Association to Be Compromised, has a thesis on the election: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our commission, the president, the vice president, the spokesman and clerk for the election is scheduled for Thursday at 14/1/2016 at 13 p.m. As a result of the draft of 13 ballots collected and used at 00, they were elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk in accordance with Article 24 of the Civil Charter, taking the vote shown against members whose names and surnames are written below. For your information. Yours truly. President: Ayşe Közar Düzce (12) Oy Vice President: Bayram Özçelik Burdur (10) Oy Speaker: Ali Özkaya Afyonkarahisar (10) Oy Clerk: Emine Yavuz Oy It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The ISIS terrorist organization has assessed the chaos in Syria, especially in the last three years, expanding its organisation here, and has taken the opportunity to provide both logistical support and organisation members with Turkey and border security. In February 2013, Cilvegöz and the Reyhanlı explosion in May 2013, the attack on Niğde in 2014, the suicide bombing in Diyarbakır on June 6, 2015, and the lives of 102 of our citizens who lost their lives and were injured in the bomb attack in Suruç on July 20th have not been relieved yet, while on October 10, 2015, the peace rally organised by professional organisations called ISIS lost their lives. There has been serious public concern in Adana that ISIS has been provided weapons and equipment support after allegedly being stopped by law enforcement of trucks claimed to belong to the MIT and carrying humanitarian substances. The fact that this organisation was not officially considered a terrorist organisation by AKP governments during its emergence and organisation has given the impression that Turkey supports ISIS in large circles, especially in the world's public. Sympathy-looking descriptions of this group by government officials and even by Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu have strengthened that perception. A decision issued by the Supreme Court said that since there was no data on the official adoption of a terrorist organisation by Turkey, it was necessary to ask the Ministry of Interior for information on this organisation, and another recent decision was adopted by the Supreme Court as an ISIS terrorist organisation. These differing positions stem from the lack of a decision on Turkey's official organisation of Turkey. The only step Turkey has already taken on this issue is the implementation of the UN's measures on the assets of terrorist organisations by Turkey as well. Following the attacks on Reyhanlı, Cilvegözü, Niğde, Diyarbakır and Suruç, these incidents have not been investigated enough, they have not been processed by public officials with responsibility, and new attacks have not been prevented. The organisation Adıyaman, Ankara, Gaziantep, is organised throughout Turkey, especially in the provinces of Kilis. After the July 20 Suruç explosion, our motion to establish a research commission issued to the TBMM by the CHP Group was rejected, and the commission, which was formed by our MPs, has taken action in the province because the live bombs that carried out the Diyarbakır and Suruç explosions are registered to the Adıyaman population. In our research here, we have no intelligence and no equipment, but the activities of an organization that we can observe with the naked eye have been ignored by police and intelligence units for years. It is a fact that after the massacres, not enough research has resulted in the failure to prevent new massacres. If they investigate Reyhanlı, Niğde, Niğde, Diyarbakır, Diyarbakır, Suruç massacre could have been prevented, Suruç massacre was not enough to go on after the Suruç massacre, and the TBM has not been able to take action against it, it is widely acknowledged that the entire community has been faced with a vicious attack, such as the Ankara massacre. For all these reasons, the TBM must investigate the massacres committed by this organisation by taking a stance against the ISIS terrorist organization. We move from this situation to investigate the attacks carried out by ISIS terror organization, particularly the Ankara massacre, and offer the ISIS terrorist organization the establishment and establishment of Parliamentary research commissions in accordance with Articles 104, and 105, in order to establish geographical, sociological, economic reasons for these channels and thus determine an effective road map in the fight against ISIS. [[Malatya]] [[Manisa]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Edirne]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Ali Haydar Hakverdi [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the curfew in Bismil and Silvan district of Diyarbakır, you will see the power of Turk, signed by "Esedullah Timi.""," he said, "even though our blood flows, victory belongs to Islam."Allah is Sufficient for all things." His writings came to the public's agenda and created controversy. Here are the "Esedullah teams," which emerged after the operations and were written on the walls of home, schools and mosques. As uncertainty continues as to who are the authors of the writings, with which they are written, you will see "Turkish's power written on the walls in Silvan by the Ministry of Internal Affairs."The state has arrived." And it was in the press that they started a study of articles like "Esedullah Timi." However, the people of the region say that those who perform operations are different from the state's known security forces; that they are a special unit with beards, ISIS-looking, Arabic and Azerbaijan, and that this special unit attacks people by bringing them together, that they are full of hatred, torture and violence. Just as no concrete data has ever been revealed about who this team is, we have no say in whether the state authorities in the region have such a team, we have powers that are beyond our control. It is alleged that they have responded. Obviously, there are a lot of issues in the region that need to be illuminated, along with the signatures of "Esedullah Timi" after the operations. For all these reasons, we offer and propose that the property of an establishment such as Esedullah Timi in a legal state should be established according to Articles 104 and 105, in order to determine whether there is any special structure called "Esadullah Timi" in our country and whether or not its security forces are due to weakness or negligence to take the necessary measures. [[Manisa]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[Slap]] [[Edirne]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Ali Haydar Hakver [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Ergene River Havza, Edirne's Longköpru, Havsa, Suloğlu, Meric; Kırklareli's Lüleburgaz, Babaeski, Vize, Pınarhisar, Pehlivanköy and Kofçaz; Tekirdağ's Çororan, Çerkeköy, Malkara, Hayrabolu, Saray, Muratlı, Ergene and Kapaklu. The Ergene River is the most important of farmers in the Thracian region to feed in the first, second, and third-class agricultural areas. At one time, Ergene, a symbol of Thracian agricultural irrigation, became a symbol of river pollution in our country today. Ergene's pollution is therefore the biggest problem of all Thrace. The Ergene River, which was born clear from Yıldız Mountains in Tekirdağ district of Saray, is now a river in which no living creature is living, starting to run black with industrial waste after 15km. From the Reach, the toxic river also harms nature and living creatures around it. The river has become 4th degree dirty water. The river contains heavy metals and many harmful components. The situation is so severe that the arsenic ratio, which normally should be 0.1-0.2, is determined to be 20.8 milligrams in the water sample taken from Longöpru location. Studies show that the cancer rate of those living around the Ergene River is three times higher than those living near the river. Dr. Prof. Dr. According to three different scientific studies carried out by Osman Pearl and his team, three times more carcinogenic cadmium has been detected in the values of people living near the river than normal cancer patients, as a result of tests on blood, tumors, and normal tissues from 196 patients living in different parts of the Ergene River and other parts of Thrace. According to research results, lead, copper, and zinc are high even in non-tumour-free tissues, indicating long-term heavy metal exposure to those living around the teenager. Although the Parliamentary Research Commission, established during the 22nd Legislature, also identified the river's cleansing, the river has not been improved. None of the AKP's government's commitments to the cleansing of Ergene for thirteen years have been kept. "Our goal is to clear the Ergene River in 2014." That's what he said. The same year later, "We cleaned up the Dwarves, Teene's a piece of cake." Minister Eroglu claimed in 2015 that Ergene would run clean and swim in Ergene himself. "We will fish together in Ergene two years later," Health Minister Mehmet Muezzinoglu said in 2013. That's what he said. Despite promises, Ergene continues to be contaminated by industrial facilities. However, there are many reactions to the project to clean up Ergene's water with a deep discharge to the Marmara Sea, which has been declared a cure for Ergene's cleansing. The lack of clarity of the project is expressed by experts, such as the risk of Ergene's water being given to the institution after it was given to Marmara with deep discharge, and the further contamination of the Sea of Marmara and the entire ecosystem. With respect, we would like to introduce a research commission in accordance with Article 98, Article 104 and 105 of our Interior Charter, to determine and shut down sources that have contaminated the Ergene River and to clear the river in scientific ways. [[Edirne]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] 14) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Ali Haydar Hakver [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Thursday 14/1/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 14 January 2016, İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioğlu and his friends (a number 601 rank), the increased pressure and threats against educators and academics, and the proposal for parliamentary research on the fundamental rights of educators, particularly to investigate violations to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, has been suggested to be read in the same date in the presentations in Thursday's unification of the talks and to be held before other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. I'll make a promise to two members of parliament in favor of the proposal and against it. In favour of the proposal, Flitz Kerestecioğlu, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0056par0424	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, first of all, I wish all of our people's relatives, including the children who died today in Diyarbakir, their condolences and their healings to the wounded. Today, as read, I have made a commitment to a research motion, especially given to educators and academics due to increased pressures. Academics and public workers who exercise the right to freedom of expression, guaranteed by constitutional and international contracts, are under serious pressure, and not only their safety, but also their job security is under pressure, and they are deeply concerned about it. For example, members of the Public Workers' Unions from KESK on October 12-13 were on strike to mourn their friends, friends, and protest those responsible for their loss in the Ankara massacre. In the same way, they experienced pressure at that time; disciplinary investigations were launched, disciplinary sentences were issued, and legal action against members was launched on grounds of the reading press texts. Again, on December 29th, public workers performed a one-day act against the violation of basic rights, including the suspension of public services, including education, health care, in areas where curfews were prohibited, and immediately after that, the information of the educators involved in the strike was requested with instructions on the right to education sent to governors, and now there is a very serious pressure on all public workers. Investigations against them clearly violate the right to strike, guaranteed by the Constitution and ILO (ILO) contracts 87, 98, and protected by criminal law. Decisions made by executives are purely political decisions. While administrative pressures for these public workers are concentrated, social media platforms such as Vine Politics, Policeman Solidarity Group are exposed to the information of these public employees demanding peace. Teachers, psychologists, medics, people who share messages supporting our party are accused of propaganda for the terrorist organization because they only want peace. Moreover, the targeted educators face actual attacks and have to leave the districts where they serve. Now the promise of peace has truly become a sufficient word for propaganda only for the terrorist organization. They called me in the middle of the night from Balıkesir Dursunbey district. This situation is really bad friends, so there's got to be some serious measures, something to be done. Of course, I'm speaking to the MPs of the ruling party in particular. After being exposed on social media by Çilem Seda Erdogan, who first served as school principal in Balıkesir Dursunbey, Ali Kürşat Özgüler, who teaches in the same district -- 940 shares are being shared within a day, many lynch attempts are being shared, followed by a group of 25-30 people surrounding Ali Kürşat Özgüler's house. Could you keep it down, 'cause I'm distracted, if you don't mind.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0057par0432	Okay.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0058par0433	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0059par0434	Mr. President, we're passing a note to each other, if you don't mind.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0060par0435	It could be in the back.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0061par0436	You guys keep talking.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0060par0437	I couldn't, but it was cut off, that's why.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0061par0438	We're listening.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0060par0439	I hope so.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0062par0440	Congressman, there's no such procedure. I'm asking you...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0061par0441	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0063par0442	Go ahead, sir, Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0064par0443	I'm telling Mr. President. Okay.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0063par0444	Please...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0065par0445	We're not elementary school kids.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0064par0446	We're not, but sometimes we can be treated that way.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0063par0447	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0064par0448	Your...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0063par0449	Just a moment, Mr. Kerestecioglu. It's only natural for a man to ask for peace, let's respect that, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0064par0451	Yeah, I mean, yeah.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0066par0452	Mr. President, this isn't elementary school.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0063par0453	Please, Mr. Ash...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0066par0454	It's not elementary school, please.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0067par0455	I'm gonna need a minute.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0066par0456	He may address the General Assembly. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0067par0458	I'm not going to ask you to come in. You speak in my ear, so I asked you to be very kind.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0068par0459	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you please... Here you go, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0067par0461	I didn't use rude language, don't repeat it.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0069par0462	There's no intention here.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0068par0463	You go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0069par0464	You don't have to exaggerate. It's not intentional.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0070par0465	You're the one who exaggerates, you say, "Here you go." You say, "The first school boy." I didn't say anything, I was just distracted. I said, I didn't say anything else.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0068par0466	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, you go ahead, sir. You guys go ahead.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0071par0467	Miss Flitz, keep talking.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0070par0468	I particularly wanted to point out something about the right to life of people, educators, and I especially wanted to get your attention. Because we're not the ones taking precautions. At some point in the night, a young woman from Balıkesir Dursunbey is looking for a teacher and says she had to leave the county by leaving her things at home. I guess you guys are gonna do something about it. So it's important to listen. Moreover, to inform the state's attorney of the information that all citizens, not only of this teacher, have started lynching attempts against the public workers who are obliged to protect their rights to live, to protect their rights, but to ensure our safety when they apply for the investigation, when the district police officials and the trustees, who are assigned to conduct the investigation, are not even allowed to apply for their petitions, we hesitate to take them. It is said, "We can't guarantee it." It's said, "We can't guarantee it." It's said, "We can't guarantee our safety." The secretary says to them: "If we change jobs for all the teachers, then who will train in those provinces and districts?" So you're trying to train in a country. If there really is a crime, you'll investigate it, but to expose it on social media, to point out targets, to make sure that those young teachers have to get away from those schools and towns before they can even get up and get their stuff, it's a very serious responsibility, and I'm trying to remind you. Thousands of teachers are expected to ignore everything from public workers in the conflict where they are removed from the districts under the name of service education, where health workers are killed and all public services are redesigned. Today's actions remind me, frankly, that around 5,000 civil servants from September 12th were employed by the Law on Martial Law 1402. Among the 1402 were university officials, as well as many public servants, such as elementary school teachers, theatre actors. Doesn't that make sense? Today, the President can refer to academics who have issued a peace call demanding that the government end the violence against its citizens with unspeakable adjectives. There is no need to give the commanders authority today, not even to give the commanders authority on September 12th; with a directive issued between the president's lips, all universities can investigate the rectors of the university, academics, and the NGO can intervene in the declaration of political opinion.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0072par0472	Is supporting terrorism a political issue?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0070par0473	Is the NGO a criminal court of opinion, my friends? How can the SEC intervene? Moreover, not only does he express ideas, he says he will call on the Inter-Unital Board and the rectors to do so. Such a arbitrary, limitless intervention only happens in military coup regimes. Following the president's statement, appointed rectors post messages saying they hate the academics who signed them in a consecutive statement. The president of Abdullah Gul University has gone far enough to ask for the resignation of Professor Dr. Bulent Tanju. Yesterday, I received a call from Maltepe University, and the academics at Maltepe University say they've been told: either resign or retire or we'll investigate.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0072par0474	Or don't support terrorism.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0070par0475	Such open support. We won't get anywhere with the porter. Everything is called terror. I don't even call ISIS "terrorism." Really, first of all, I hope that one day in this House, we can talk about who killed each other's baby? Without accusing each other of who's a terrorist.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0073par0477	Isn't ISIS a terrorist too?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0070par0478	That's the only way you can answer me.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0073par0480	How should we respond? I mean, you don't see ISIS as terrorism!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0074par0481	Mr. Kerestecioglu, I'll give you two more minutes to make up for lost time, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0075par0483	Thank you, Mr. President. In his statement, the President of Ataturk University says: "There may be different ideas everywhere there is a human being, but thinking is a separate thing, opposing the state is a separate thing. The university chancellor says that. At Ataturk University, anyone can speak his mind freely, but he can't oppose the state. Without the government, there will be no university. Look, we have an official witch hunt list that history later taught us that those witches were healers. In the same way, dozens of university signatories say they will investigate the academics. Those who do not declare clearly, as I just said, place two options: either resign or retire. Now, while the state plays McCarthy, it also puts academics on the target of a number of crime syndicate leaders. Sedat Peker has the nerve to say, "We will shed blood, we will shower with your flowing blood." For months, only those who have given all kinds of instructions for those who have expressed their opinion have not made a single statement about the person who called for such violence, and there has not been a single explanation from your ranks, I'm afraid. And another wonder is, really, if there are any prosecutors who are acting without instructions, I wonder if that's what Sedat Peker is saying, and that's why they're not being touched? Do you guys have anything to say about that? Freedom of expression comes at the top of the most important rights in today's democratic law states. To do that, the government has to provide the necessary safe environment, and it has to do so.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0076par0489	There's freedom of speech, but there's no freedom of terror.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0075par0490	While I'm done speaking, I'd like to make one particular point to you. As many say today, teacher Ayþe is my friend, teacher Ayþe is all of us, and we need to do what we really need to do, guarantee freedom of expression. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0077par0493	Where did those academics get the instruction?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0078par0494	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Kamil Aydın, Erzurum MP against the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0079par0499	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I have made a promise against your proposal. On behalf of the National Movement Party, I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, I wish God's mercy to the martyrs who lost my hand in yesterday's attack, and to their grieving families. We say we're sorry for the Turkish nation's loss. Yes, there's been another first, and so far, this baby murder that the terrorist organization has not insisted on is now registered. That's what the National Movement Party has been saying all the time, but unfortunately today, we witnessed a crime that was so brutal that yesterday, by targeting our young as well as our innocent sleep-sleeping babies. There's another...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0080par0502	They've killed before.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0079par0503	We used to say it all the time. I'm telling you this: say, "Baby killer, don't be afraid." The killer is the killer.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0080par0504	No, they've killed babies before!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0081par0505	He supports you, he did so before. He says, "Don't get me wrong."
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0079par0506	That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0080par0507	Why do you object?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0079par0508	I'm not, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0082par0509	Why do you object?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0079par0510	Say it, say it in peace, he's with us.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0083par0511	I'm telling you, they've killed before!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0079par0512	Now, look, please, don't try to waste my time, I'll tell you something.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0084par0513	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0079par0514	Sir, another important thing is that I also condemn something about the West, something that we idealized, something that we used to give our references from time to time, something that happened yesterday. Look, it's a baby on the beach, isn't it, Aylan, our baby, we all own it because we're parents, we're parents, we're dads. But as we embraced millions of Syrian immigrants, as they practiced in the past, all our friends who traveled abroad knew that in the past, planes were sprayed before they landed, and where they even did nails and dental examinations. This is the Western that we idealized, where we've always sampled, signed 400 signatures, and yesterday a cartoon of Charlie Hebdo was published, and I'd like to bring it to your attention. In that cartoon, Aylan says, "Who's this?" a boy running with a hint of a baby, a boy chasing a lady, referring to the abuses that took place on that New Year's Eve in Germany. It says: This is the grown-up Aylan baby. In the future, they will be such abusers here. I also condemn this one. It's also an intellectual attitude. Now, sir, this is 1,128 illustrators, so-called intellectuals, or what Gramsci put as "organic intellectuals." These are just information technicians, not intellectuals. These are only prisoners of certain ideology, their voices. Sir, there's a fine line that separates democracy from anarchy. Democracy is a regime of rules. Dear lawmakers, anarchy talks about rules, freedoms, democracy. But the biggest separatist line is one of the rules of living, one of the rules. Here's anarchy without rules, killing, killing, destroying chaos, chaos, and turning business into armed terror. That's what happened today in a very distinguished part of our country. There's a terrorist incident out there. So, who's the intellectual, the intellectual? As your poor brother trying to write intellectual responsibility in the philosophy dictionary, I also have a study called "Intellectual Strangers and Mortal Identities," which I am inspired to say a few things about. Sir, in the words of intellectuality, light, or old people, we have our professional professions, regardless of our professions, but beyond that, we have the task of taking on the task of directing, informing, enlightening society, light, intellectuality. You can be an academic, you can be a doctor, you can be a nurse, but you can also have an intellectual attitude because there is such a social responsibility. You can't be professional when you do this, you have to act with amateur spirit. Well, then, what's your measurement? Our measurement will be to say right and truth everywhere; to express injustice; to not be someone's spokesman; Edward Said is the the theorist of intellectualism; to be, if necessary, to be foreign, to be marginal, not to be a native of a place, but to be intellectual, not to be led by a group, a terrorist organization, a structure; to be intellectual, to be enlightened. Here, I'd like to make a comment as to whether they're carrying these features. Sir, there's a terrorist storm in the southeast. The killer organization continues to act on all acts of terrorism, constantly old-age, baby, sir, student-free, non-female, female-female, non-discriminal. But here, sir, in that Bosphorus, in that Doll, in that Pointystone, in those beautiful landscapes, or in the same places in the European capitals, if you will notice, the density of signatures is there. Sir, there was this intellectual attitude in the past, this artificial intellectualism, this information technology. They used to mourn Zap Water, and in the past, a little, sir, because of the landscape and the alcohol they had received, poetry, serenade, and mourning. I'll never forget, I'll give you an example of what I've been through. I was an academic at a heavy university in Eastern Anatolia. But it's very qualified, very high quality abroad, and I've been to universities where some of the signatures come from today, and I've done my second degree and PhD there, but as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, as a son of Turkey, like St. Sancar, I've never betrayed my country, my principles, my country, my country, my country, and those who have done it all the time. (Applause from MHP rows) Do you know how I stopped, here, not to say, but to say that I would like to say that I'm going to impose a sineon. We've warned the rectors of the period -- one is not here now, one is not here, he was our chancellor of the University of Cırıkkale -- you send students abroad, but they come here, they have no activity in the field of science, they're in the direction of the separatists and they're in some activities against Turkey. We said, "We're not taken into consideration." We've had some of the people who burned these rituals, some of the people who signed them today, in some scientific events like this. I said, "Yes, East Anatolia, Southeast Anatolia is a region with really many flaws in its nature, heavy climate conditions, a number of deficiencies in its resources. He was also academically lacking. Please come from your glass mansions, not under the pressure of a dictator like Kenan Universe, since you're so idealistic, you have so much intellectual savings, come, volunteer for the universities here. "Ricky Martin in Mardin." Now, I'm calling this from here, from the High Assembly, in front of the Turkish nation, and I'm telling those who are watching us, and I'm warning fellow academics: Friends, as Erol Güngör put it, to be enlightened, to be based on knowledge and document, to be research. Another of our intellectuals, Joseph Has Hajip -- we will teach it, hopefully, we will, we will, together, we will, we will, we will, we will, hopefully, read it to our ministers -- says the wise man: "Good morning, good Lord, is the man who holds his heart in the hands of the people, who speaks the truth. This is what I understand, and this is what I do. Now, we have examples in the West, and I just gave an example of France. Sir, there are a lot of think tank groups in America, and there are intellectual types that make up the infrastructure of various phrases in their names. Here's one of them, Chomsky. I know him very well because I'm a linguist, and he's a linguist. We really don't have anything to say about his professional profession, his scientific nature, especially his applied language, but for some reason, in his own country -- the speaker just mentioned it -- he doesn't have much to do with witch hunting. Sir, when William Bush decided to operate in Iraq in 1991, we're going to free Iraq. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...when he has nothing to say to those who put Iraq in such a state, he has no knowledge today, no knowledge, no knowledge, no scientific research whatsoever. We condemn them with hatred as the National Movement Party. Now, the state of the Republic of Turkey needs intellectuals like Saint Sancars. Look, they don't have anything to say about these terrorist incidents that we live in in the southeast today. They'll either give up there, come and live there with us, or they'll be honest like Saint Sancar. A scientist who was cut off from the bosom of Anatolia, went for knowledge, and believe me, he has no home, no baths, a fire hose in his lab, and he's an intellectual. I'm just saying that being a treasurer must be your most important choice. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0085par0529	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. In favour of the proposal, Levent Gök, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Sky. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0086par0534	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have begun speaking, and I ask God's mercy to all our dead citizens, because of the bomb that was carried out in Sultanahmet, the day before yesterday at Sultanahmet, the incident that was detonated by ISIS terror organization -- the death of foreign tourists -- and to all those who lost their lives yesterday in a bomb attack on a police station in the district of Çınar of Diyarbakır. We've been branded once again, precious MPs. What's going on, where's Turkey going? We no longer sleep because there will be painful news from a corner of Turkey every day. Turkey can't carry such a painting, precious MPs. Such a painting is no longer a portable painting, and all concepts are now intertwined in Turkey. In fact, the reason why these concepts are intertwined is because of the two-way attitude of power. When the time comes for the power to take steps on what it calls the process of solutions, which is different, the solution process is now in the refrigerator. Its behavior is different from the time it says. If you look at the approach of power, when he calls it the solution process, all the scientists who supported that process are fine, but from the moment the process is broken, let that process take place. Everyone who says, "Let that process take place." It's a complete dilemma. The immediate solution process -- in the good days when you're next to it -- is that those who are with you -- they're called smart men, they're protected by power, but when the process changes, the ranks change, and they start to be treated like terrorists. Who's the terrorist? How can we say such cheap things? Look, my dear friends, this power has a fundamental question to answer. Did this power begin a process four years ago called the solution process? He started it. Did you carry this to the billboards during your previous campaigns? You moved it. What's it say here? The process of solutions has begun, and the tears of mothers have stopped. With whom did the esteemed lawmakers begin the process of ruling solutions? Who started it, that's the critical question.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0087par0538	People, people!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0086par0539	Can you answer that? We do. The ruling solution began with the PKK.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0088par0540	Don't do it, Mr. President, don't do it!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0086par0541	And there were talks in Oslo. When there are talks in Oslo, he is an asshole. After it was said, the process of solutions began, and the tears of the mothers stopped. Then everyone who supports power is protected, the solution process is all over the place, but the Republican People's Party has made its historic call in those days. ▪ Look, Parliament is the solution. The Clave is the solution to this huge problem. We need to meet in a legitimate environment, we need to establish a social consensus, we need to set up a commission, and this commission needs to produce a joint mental board, and everything must be in front of everyone, and don't engage in engagements you can't give. Then this historic warning of the Republican People's Party has been turned aside and has come to a time when the solution process has been abolished. My dear friends, now, they have a declaration war. This is because of the government's bilateral behavior. So, when there's a solution process... again, I ask the AKP MPs: Who was read in the 2013 Nevruz, and in the 2015 Nevruz in Diyarbakır Square? Whose declaration was read in the government's custody, in its care, in its protection, in the 2013 Nevruz and 2015 Nevruz? My dear friends, today you accuse everyone, everyone against you of being terrorists. In the 2013 Nevruz, and in the 2015 Nevruz, my fellow citizens, the declaration of Abdullah Ocalan, under the government's protection in Diyarbakır Square was read. Who do you think is the terrorist?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0089par0544	The one who reads the manifesto!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0086par0545	Where do you come from? Look, it's a complete dilemma. Millions are gathering, the government is on line, my dear friends, all of this. We've been through this, haven't we? We've been through this. Now, in a painting like this, once again, when things were going well, another AKP billboard:..... stood up extraordinaryly. The pressure's over. I live freely in my village. That's right, the state of emergency has risen. My dear friends, because of your two-bit attitude -- that's your poster five months ago -- right now, in Turkey, there's almost 1.5 million people living where there's martial law -- there's an extraordinary situation. How did you get into this painting? How did this happen? Terror... we're against all kinds of terror, we're cursed. By name, but without. The Republican People's Party opposes PKK terrorism, ISIS terrorism and DHKP-C terrorism without distinction. How will you explain your meeting with the PKK? You can't explain it. (CHEERING) You're writhing in a whirlpool like this. When it comes to your job, the solution process is acceptable and good, but when your conjuncture is broken, the process is wrong, and you put a terrorist-like label on those who support the process. We, the Republican People's Party, support freedom of expression to be completely anti-terrorism. Freedom of speech cannot support terrorism, freedom of expression must defend its right to live. Therefore, the way to be convincing is to defend the right to live under any circumstances and to oppose terrorism. In this regard, we stand by freedom of expression as long as it is opposed to terrorism and opens the way for freedom. Unfortunately, however, these unjust and wrong practices of power continue to give Turkey a hard time. We're repeating our call. Look, we noticed today's painting right after the June 7th elections. Immediately after the June 7 elections took place, 33 people lost their lives in Suruç, one soldier was killed in Ceylanınar, and two police officers were shot in the back of the neck one night. We've called an emergency meeting of Congress. We took a quick picture of the revelation of the situation, and we saw how bad it was going. It turns out that the eastern and southeast of the country has turned into weapons depots, ISIS, PKK are running around here, so we thought we'd take a picture of this painting, and we called an extraordinary meeting of the Assembly on July 29th, my dear friends. Then Congress was on vacation, we called an extraordinary meeting, we called Congress, and we said, "Come, let's be together against terror," and that's the only way we can solve this problem. We named it that day, we made our discovery that day, and we saw that Turkey would not get better. We've seen the government lose some things, lose authority in the east and the southeast, and we've taken a picture of this painting. All the parties as Congress, four parties together, we thought we'd be together against terror, friends. We're saying this again, it's a vital issue, and I don't think it's appropriate to have a political party dispute. After we tell the truth, we repeat this call. Come, please, let's all think about this together. Turkey is on its way to polarisation, Turkey's hate speech is heading towards a time when people are saying hurtful things to each other. The President is involved, the Prime Minister is somewhere, academics are on one side, we need to put this together. Turkey's exit from this terror is only possible if we are united. We say it over and over again. We have to maintain the integrity of the country by not offending each other, understanding each other, but preventing terrorism. We can't watch innocent people die every day, our police officers, our soldiers, our police. Look, in the east and southeast, soldiers are dying, cops are dying, innocent people are dying. Fifty-eight babies dead, my dear friends so far, east and southeast, it's a shame, it's a sin. I'm not saying that number, not the number of our security forces. I mean, if we don't want the babies to die, if we don't want the mothers to shed tears, we have to be together. We're reaching out. The Republican People's Party on this issue is the date of the Republican People's Party's proposal against the terror we face today. I want to end this by repeating this call. Against terror, the Republican People's Party says it invites everyone to the post so that they can be one punch in Congress, and I salute all of you with love.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0090par0551	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Ertan Aydın, Ankara MP against the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0091par0556	Mr. President, I salute your esteemed delegation. I'm here to address the motion against you. First of all, I curse last night's attack by the PKK terror organization with a bomb-loaded vehicle aimed at a police station in Diyarbakir. I wish the dead mercy, condolences to their relatives, immediate healing for the wounded. Again, on the day before yesterday, I ask God's mercy for foreign nationals who died of ISIS terror attacks in Istanbul, and my condolences to their relatives. In an unsubstantiated and unsubstantiated way, free of all religions, ideology, terror is terror, and I argue that terror should be damned in every way. For academics, freedom of thought is as important as breathing air as drinking water, friends. Higher education institutions are for public benefit. Public benefit requires that individuals' basic rights in society be accepted. The basic rights are to investigate and express the truth without any obstacles, but they are not limited to this. Therefore, professors need to be responsible for providing and protecting academic freedom. So there is a strong relationship between freedoms and academic freedoms and academic responsibilities, and the faculty must be aware of the relationship. The EC PARTY governments also set an example of economic, political and social gains, as well as academic freedom. The work we've done since 2002, I'm not going to elaborate on these, and we're very limited on time, but, you know, from increasing the number of universities, from the number of 76 universities to the number of students from 193, to the number of professors from 76,000 to 120,000, has been revolutionised, and a lot of great studies have been done in terms of higher education and academia. Despite recent developments, professors and students serve in the shadow of a law prepared during the coup. The EC PARTY is again the one who made meaningful efforts to change this law and waged a great struggle against it. We want to cleanse and free universities of the elements of the ECHR Law from the impact period. It is not possible to assess academic freedom in a separate way from the country's reform and democratisation process. Unfortunately, the recent normalisation process, along with the EC PARTY, did not bring with it a change of culture and mentality in recent years, in a declaration of academics published. Friends, when you read the declaration, believe me, you find it difficult to understand whether it was written from the Kandil, or from the university. It's a declaration of freedom, and it's definitely a misdirection, but it's a tribute to violence, terrorism, pragmatism. So far, among the academics, there have been reports published in the academic world, different declarations, some of which I have signed in the past as an academic, and they have made certain public impressions, but for the first time, a statement has been on the agenda, and it was on the agenda of both our Prime Minister and President. So why is this on the agenda, this memo, you need to take a look at it. Because for the first time, we are faced with a statement that offends the average human conscience, public conscience, and the sense of justice. The academic criteria are a declaration of instability and injustice that cannot be written even by a common human criteria. As an academic, I would like to point out that if you want a declaration to be evaluated in an academic framework, it must be written in accordance with the minimum academic criteria. The terrorist organization talks about the conflict that PKK has started in the name of self-government, all the problems caused by the ditch, but there's no mention of the PKK (PK) or the word "hendek" mentioned, and it's not interesting. I don't think there's anything wrong with academic morality. There's a heavy load on the government here, where the government is shown to be the source of violence. However, we, as government and state, are fighting the 12-year-old Fırat, the 15-year-old Yasin (Jasin) and the nine-year-old Elif (Elif) and the five-year-old Irene (Isakir) and the one-year-old Ecrin (Ecrin) massacred last night at Diyarbakır Çınar. I invite those who call this struggle a massacre and slaughter not to question the state and the security forces, but their dehumanizing conscience. I'm saying it's clearly about to be dehumanized because those who write this statement don't want the PKK to end the trench war, but they want the state to lift the curfew. He never mentions human rights violations from the PKK, but he demands that the state end operations immediately. I would like to point out that as an academic, I welcome a single-sided, monogamous, and dogmatic text that does not reflect the feelings of 78 million of this country. In earlier texts, the PKK original texts, the Kandil original texts, they were referred to as the sides, if you remember, friends, the sides. There's no such thing as the sides of this text, it's one side, the state side and the entire government. Believe me, if the Kandil did it, if the KCK did it, he wouldn't be able to produce such an unfair, unstable text. I'm stalling because I'm running out of time. What state will accept you as an independent observer only after a declaration that you have declared the language and demands of the terrorist organization PKK? Because they claim that we are independent observers. There are a lot of thesis that academics are alienating to society. Mr. Minister of the MHP has just made statements, and he has made good comments. Academics are estranged, away from society, criticisms about it are sometimes high, and I find it a little unfair when I'm an academic, but I've never seen a case where an academic group becomes so alien to society. I marveled at how they had signed a one-sided ideological text of so many societies, so abstract, so separate from society, so completely drawn to the ivory tower. I'd actually like to make a call here: there's probably been academics who signed this statement under the pressure of some neighborhood without actually reading it, because they somehow convinced some powerful academics from abroad to sign it. I say, "Come, put your hand on your conscience, listen to the voice of your conscience, and withdraw yourself from the signature you have made in this declaration, for history and people will not forget the statements and your signatures in this declaration." In order not to be condemned in the face of history, you must remove yourself from this black spot in order to keep your own academic freedom and conscience free and independent. Believe me, I'm not using this on a state-of-the-art basis. As an academic, I've worked for years on the lotion of freedom in the past, and I'm a political scientist, but this is really way below the average academic level. Believe me, it's as if a declaration written by a terrorist organization was forced on academics to sign it. So they need to save themselves from this embarrassment, this inconsistency, and prove their academic competence, their autonomy. It's a real responsibility to history. They were just talking about the right to life, the right to the right of academics, teachers. You will not speak a word to an organization that has destroyed the right to life of Kurds and Turks for years, but will come and declare the state's fight against terrorism as a great crime of humanity, as a great terror. I'm sorry, but the average human stance is no longer acceptable. I salute you all as I end my words with these thoughts and feelings. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0092par0573	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I submit the proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0093par0575	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit01spe0092par0576	Since the decision has been asked to be enough, I'll call the number of decisions in the proposal vote. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0092par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the People's Democratic Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who don't accept the proposal... those who don't... the proposal is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will continue the talks of the Law and Budget Commission Report (Isparta MP Surajya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Group Group Deputy Chair and Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; 35 MPs who are ranked in the 1st place in the draft of the Military Law and Some Laws. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. In the last merger, the votes of the substances involved in chapter one were complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers the 11th and 21st articles. In the second chapter, I'll make a promise to our MPs who have asked for word on behalf of groups and individuals. On behalf of the groups, Mustafa Kalaycı is a member of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kalay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0094par0019	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Another bag of editing, another non-responsive and fundamental law enforcement. Despite all the promises this freak has made, the AKP continues to do so. The AKP won't give up on the bag, so don't stop, keep bagging! This bill also includes an arrangement to lighten the burden that comes to employers due to a minimum wage increase. According to this, this year's annual premiums for insurancees reported for the current month are expected to be paid by the treasury, not exceeding the amount of $2,550 per month reported by employers in the same month of 2015 and underpaid insurance. Our economy's competitiveness is not negatively affected, its lack of unregistered employment and workers, and we care and support the approach to reducing high costs from minimum wage increases, but the scope and content of the support will be lacking and will already face many problems in implementation. There is a total increase of $29.3 per cent in the total cost of the minimum wage to the employer, which will be covered by the treasury. Despite 100 lira support, the minimum wage increases in employer's costs by 22.7 per cent. Thus, the government's support will be very inadequate. As a matter of fact, there are many businesses today where there are workers out there. Our country, according to OECD data, is the world's 1st in tax burdens on employment. The minimum wage is $1,300, but the total cost to the employer is $1,935. Now, only 100 liras of $635 from the minimum wage will not be taken from the state. The AKP does not go to an arrangement to reduce or remove obligations such as taxes, bonuses, tuition, funds, to reduce the cost of employers in both employment and other entries. As the National Movement Party, we say that the minimum wage should not be taxed, the industry and trade expert should be put into immediate implementation of structural reforms, programmes and projects, which will reduce the costs of our farmers and increase competitiveness. Dear lawmakers, the arrangement also provides the ability to encourage honest employers to pursue regular ways, to increase off-the-books. Again, negativity about minimum wage-related issues, including administrative fines for general health insurance premiums, is not taken into account. It is unacceptable that the government's support does not include our trades, farmers and chiefs. Mr. Secretary, please explain why you only support the bosses, why you don't consider our farmers, our tradesmen, our chiefs, who are victims of the same thing. See, the SGK premium, the lowest $322 of our farmers, increased by 35 per cent in 2016 to $435. Our farmer who's having trouble paying his current bonus can't afford it. There are 808,000 farmers registered in the SGK, and with this premium burden, it is clear that the agriculture sector will increase further. Again, I ask the government, are you not aware of this situation? How is our farmer going to pay a 35 percent increase in the SGO bonus that you've trapped in debt and interest, that you've mortgaged his field, his garden? Again, the lowest tradesmen's BUG-KUR bonus increases by 29 per cent to 568 liras. There's no way our shopkeeper's gonna pay for this. My dear friends, I ask you, how many tradesmen in your county can pay $568 a month, $6.818 a year? Unfair and segregational practices must be terminated, and the change to give our tradesmen, farmers and chiefs a 100-dollar bonus must be made. In addition, policies that will free our farmer from debt and interest helix should be put into practice at once. However, the AKP government is insensitive in these matters. On the contrary, the Ministry of Finance has launched an intensive investigation following the November 1st election, which has collapsed into the community of our industrialists and tradesmen. Compromises on instructions do not go below a certain limit. Our industry and trade men, our tradesmen and artists and farmers are in a very difficult situation. Therefore, taxes and bonus debts must be restructured in a way that can be paid. The government must not observe the victimization of the citizen, but must take the necessary measures at once. But where is the government? Look, our citizens, especially our driver's tradesman, are suffering and screaming from traffic insurance. The increased increase in traffic insurance premiums has driven our people mad. But the AKP government is not from there. The AKP enjoys the burden of the citizen. Honourable lawmakers are well aware of the AKP's mentality to make laws quickly in matters that touch it. See, with this bill, there is an arrangement that leads to restrictions on provisions that determine the Court's control area. The public share of the capital is less than 50 per cent and the Stock Exchange is envisioned to be supervised by independent audit reports and to be linked to the report. In fact, this is the third amendment that AKP has made in five years. As such, Court Law No. 6085, supported by the National Movement Party, was published in the Official Gazette of December 19, 2010. This law stipulates that companies with less than 50 per cent of the public share of their capital should be audited by the rights of partnership. Less than a year after the adoption of this law, companies with less than 50 per cent of the state's share of the Constitution of 662, dated November 2, 2011, were completely excluded from the Court's control. This violation of the Constitution has been cancelled by the Constitutional Court. This time, the regulation, dated July 12, 2013, which was passed by Bags 6495, has been re-established by the Court's audit of companies whose public share is less than 50 per cent. This arrangement has been cancelled by the Constitutional Court. Turkish Airlines and TELEKOM, whose public share is now below 50 per cent, are now being blocked directly by the Court, while others are being taken out of control. This arrangement clearly violates the Constitution. The AKP is allergic to control. Control doesn't like being audited. That's not all. Is there any understanding that doesn't know so much law, that doesn't care about the Constitution, the Constitutional Court? In the capital placed in these companies in the name of the public, the orphan has the right to have his hair cut. Therefore, no one has the right to save as much as his father's property, nor does he have the authority. The Court is in charge of auditing the Turkish nation on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I ask you, why are you afraid of auditing, auditing, accountability? If we're inspected, we'll be smoke. Are you saying? If we're inspected, we'll be dragged into court. Whatever arrangement you make, you will surely pay for it one day. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0095par0037	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. Meral Danış Beştaş, Adana MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0096par0042	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, we need to consider a few things about these laws in addition to the conversations our other friends have made, but in today's merger, I'd like to express that I've been watching with great surprise, with horror. It's really a shame that the attacks on academics, the lynching campaign, including Parliament and lawmakers, are a disgrace to our country. I'd like to express that first. No matter what topic has been spoken of, different identifications and statements have been made to academics who have signed for peace. So there's been so many evaluations, I don't know, that they're abstract from society, they're pushed out of society, they're living in secret mansions, I don't know, I mean, they've been judged so much that it shows how much intolerance there is to want peace. What did the academics really want? The academics demanded that the curfew be lifted. Academics have asked for a resolving and negotiating process. The academics chose to be the voice of peace in this country, and they said no to the peace demand, the end of the deaths... no to the Black Sea now, no to the East or the West, no matter where they were, to the coffins. What did the academics do that made them the target of such a huge lynching campaign, and Parliament today is holding them from a part of this campaign for academics? First of all, it's no secret that freedom of expression in Turkey is a very troubling area, depending on who uses freedom of expression. There's unlimited freedom of expression for someone, freedom of crime, right to be immune from punishment, but there's a limit to not being able to say anything about anyone.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0097par0047	You must be talking about yourself!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0096par0048	I mean, everybody knows we're explaining our own thoughts about this. I'd like to express that we're not afraid of your threats, especially your response from these times, with great regret. I'm just reminding you of the hundreds of cases of freedom of expression filed against Turkey by the European Court of Human Rights. By the President of this country...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0098par0050	What did the European Court of Human Rights decide?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0096par0051	The European Court of Human Rights has issued a serious warning to Turkey; he said: "I am following you closely. You, the government, have thought for days, weeks, about how to defend yourself behind closed doors, you have written great epics, but you will not be able to forgive these crimes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0099par0052	Tell me what you think of the pits, about the pits!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0096par0053	If the view of freedom of expression in Turkey is Sedat Peker's view, if the privilege shown to Sedat Peker is not given to academics, professors, scientists of this country, let's stop here and think.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0100par0054	Not only Sedat Peker... are you listening to Sedat Peker?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0096par0055	If the freedom of speech in one country has come to this stage, I will personally go out and take a blood bath with your blood. If it says so, and the prosecutors don't move their hair, but the President of this country is very clear that ten minutes after the ISIS terror, in a time when dozens of people were massacred in Sultanahmet. Because the defenders of war, the advocates of injustice and lawlessness, the advocates of inequality...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0101par0056	You speak each other's language well!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0096par0057	This is the stand of those who advocate war and conflict against those who argue that there is no death. Why is it bothering you? These academics you're talking about are just people who are not just people, but I'm just saying in terms of academic careers and studies -- there are people who have represented Turkey abroad for decades, there are members of the Intelligence Committee. These are the university professors who teach our children in this country. These are people who have written hundreds of books on the Kurdish problem, conflict solutions, world experience, peace issue, they know about it. Let's not waste it so easily. It is a great shame and a great shame for us to have a campaign against our own country's top-level lynching campaign against its scientists, such as the campaign against Sadat Peker. Therefore, the attack on academics is an attack on freedom of expression, an attack on freedom of science, an attack on freedom of thought and expression for everyone to use freedom of expression, and all of these attacks have a political perspective at the root; power has a constraint; if you are not in favor of me, if you are not defending what I think, you are the enemy, and if you are not doing what I want you to do, I will not have you anywhere. So is it possible that after the president, the NGO gathers extraordinaryly, makes quick decisions, starts investigations from different universities, instructions, prosecutors take action? Where's the rule of law? Where are the principles of the state of law? Where's the principle of personality of crime and punishment? Where's the purity of it? This whole thing is falling apart right now. It doesn't really make much sense as a lawyer to talk about law anymore. Every time I'm on this stand, I'm going to stress it.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0102par0060	What can you do? You can't do anything until you've said nothing to the pits.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0096par0061	Because in this country, right now, we're violating every international contract that we've ever signed, especially the Constitution, by step, and it's really incredibly meaningless, and it doesn't mean anything. So everywhere you go, there's a law against you. We're not even more critically equal in the eyes of the law; while someone is in violation of the law, breaking the law, someone can't even use freedom of thought and expression within narrow limits. Therefore, we, certainly this Turkey's public opinion, are being carefully watched by citizens of Turkey, and we have no doubt that the answers will be given.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0102par0062	We certainly don't doubt it.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0096par0063	No pressure can be sustained forever.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0103par0064	They gave me that answer two months ago.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0096par0065	With no methods of oppression and violence, with murders, curfews, obstruction of freedom of expression, no power can assume the continuation of its own power. Sooner or later, the opposition and those who resist say the last words because to stand for justice and law, to defend the rule of law, to everyone, is to defend the equality of the inequity, but not to them. In this country two days ago -- I was going to tell you about it -- unfortunately, there was no time left -- we were prevented from going to the funeral of our own party council member. There are no ditchs in Midyat, no curfews, no security zones, and none of that in Siirt, and we, as 8 MPs, did not enter with 2. They told us that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has a decision. We wanted a decision, no decision. The governorship has a decision. We asked for a decision, no decision. By verbal instruction, thousands of people were not taken into those provinces -- in the first place -- in the first place -- as trustees. Nobody talks about law here.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0103par0067	They were picking you up, you didn't go yourself. The police told you to go. You're lying in front of all of us.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0104par0068	You must have brought a gun. Maybe they didn't take it for him.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0096par0069	If funerals are kept on the ground for twenty days and thirty days, let no one speak of law and justice. I also have a word with CHP, that they should really make up their minds, zigzag every day...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0104par0071	Are you carrying a gun in your car?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0096par0072	...dozens of different views on one thing, not democracy, rights, or human rights. Some things you have to stand up for, you have to be primitive.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0104par0073	Yeah, you definitely have to stand up straight!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0096par0074	What do we really propose to solve the Kurdish problem? War or peace?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0104par0075	You missed that train.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0105par0076	Tell that to the other side.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0096par0077	Negotiation or dialogue or severe human rights violations and the policy of slaughter? We have to decide now, otherwise we lose our children every day, and we lose the last babies in Chinar, and we can't protect our babies, and it's painful.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0104par0078	Tell me who lost it.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0105par0079	Where are the pictures?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0106par0080	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0104par0081	Where are the pictures of those kids?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0106par0082	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0107par0083	Our responsibility right now is to work here to prevent them. So if you'd rather listen than object, I assure you, we have a lot to understand from each other.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0104par0084	Where are the pictures of those kids?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0107par0085	I'll tell you this in the final sentence: really, the misfortune of these days is the rule of the blind of the mad, said Eduardo Galeano. Either the lunatics will get smart or our eyes will open. Now that the eyes are open, no one tells a story for nothing. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0104par0088	Where are the pictures of those kids?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0108par0089	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0109par0090	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0108par0091	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0109par0092	Sir, the speaker has just made a statement that he can't express his views by making it clear to the Republican People's Party. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to take this up with 69...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0108par0093	According to Article 69, I give you my word for two minutes, Mr. Gök.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0109par0096	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Republican People's Party, their programme, their ideology, are one of Turkey's most radical and open parties to innovation. All the views of the Republican People's Party are expressed by both the party's official website and all our spokesman. The Republican People's Party opposes all kinds of terrorism with an understanding of the need to be very cool and cool during this period of Turkey. ISIS, DHKP-C, PKK, it is the Republican People's Party's primary duty to stand up to all acts of violence against innocent people, our soldiers, our police. This matter can never be postponed, it cannot be seen as trivial. The Republican People's Party has always intended for all political parties to express what they will say on the legitimate platform under the roof of parliament and to maintain freedom of expression. Therefore, the uncertainty of the speech of the Republican People's Party, we can never deal with criticisms like the zigzag at various times, we are not a deserving party. In 1989, we were a party that stepped into this huge problem by calling it the Kurdish problem at the time no one had named it, offering the freedom of Kurdish language. We're taking our line in favor of human rights, of democracy, but certainly and certainly with a choice against violence, and we're going to continue to be like this. This is the legitimate platform, this is the legitimate line. I invite all of our political parties to be sincere here with statements condemning all kinds of violence, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0110par0100	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0111par0102	Mr. President, if you do not do as I say, you are my enemy. I demand word according to 69.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0110par0103	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci, and I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0111par0105	Mr. President, dear friends, there's power in Turkey, there's opposition. As long as it's on legitimate ground, of course, everyone performs their own function. And no one has to look at the mouth of power. As a matter of fact, opposition has many voices on legitimate ground in Turkey. The problem here is clearly an armed challenge to the state. Against that, the task of power is to do what is necessary against this violent action, which is based on the safety of the lives and property of society with the state mechanism. It's his moral duty, his responsibility to society, that the government should take a challenging position against this. It is not possible to view those groups as opposition as an element of politics on legitimate grounds. The precious speaker felt the need to draw strength from Sedat Peker's views to gain legitimacy in his own thesis as he spoke a moment ago. I mean, it's actually kind of weird. Sedat Peker mentioned a bloodbath, put something else in front of him. Peker is a notorious mobster.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0112par0107	But he's at a rally.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0111par0108	He's been at a rally, yeah. The prosecutors are suing him for his rally. The EC PARTY is registered in its 14-year power over such mafia organizations; it is necessary to look at what the government has said about them, how it has struggled with the mafia. The academics, on the other hand, accuse the state of murder, the academics mentioned. It's perfectly normal to investigate legitimate grounds, not by committing a new law against it. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0113par0112	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Danış Beştaş, I'm listening, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0114par0114	There's an open taunt that I'm powered by Sedat Peker.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0113par0115	So, you want to speak on the grounds that he referred to you as a different opinion than the one you suggested.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0114par0116	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0113par0117	Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş, and I promise you two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0114par0119	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have claimed that I have secured a position from the speeches of Sedat Peker. I mean, either I couldn't tell you, it was either a misdirection or it was preferable to be understood.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0115par0120	I don't...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0114par0121	So, my case to Sedat Peker is that not everyone in Turkey is considered equal before the law, when prosecutors are investigating, when they're suing, when they're investigating crimes, who's saying what from which side, who's taking a stand according to who, and who's on their side. So, when academics are being investigated only because they're using freedom of expression, Sedat Peker says he's going to take a bloodbath on death, and no one moves a muscle.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0115par0122	There is, there's an investigation.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0114par0123	I mean, we're calling in prosecutors here.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0115par0124	Yes, sir, there is an investigation.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0116par0125	Yeah, the D.A. already has an investigation, the D.A.'s investigation, why are you twisting it?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0114par0126	Before, Sedat Peker openly threatened society during his rallies. I mean, right now in Turkey...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0117par0127	You don't see it because you look at it with one eye.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0114par0128	I mean, we're looking at a lot of things, and we know a lot differently than you do how all the layers of society feel.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0117par0129	If you knew, you'd know there was a lawsuit against him, too.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0114par0130	I mean, right now, if you'll excuse me, I'm answering. In terms of law and investigations that have developed a picture like this in Turkey: crime is allowed to be committed for someone, but it is forbidden to say that crime has been committed. You can commit a crime, someone can bathe in blood...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0117par0132	Right, the PKK is committing crimes, and you're not saying anything.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0114par0133	But when someone says it, it's a crime.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0117par0134	Right, yeah.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0114par0135	So in the face of a double standard like this, I've expressed that we can't talk about the state of law, that we can't speak of the rule of law. I have the same opinions. The words of Sedat Peker (Sedat Peker) are clearly the threat of killing academics, and a clear threat of revenge and blood, which exceeds killing. In fact, these people are dangerous to society, and they need to be arrested immediately.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0118par0137	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. I keep promising on behalf of the groups. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Musa Çam, İzmir MP... Here you go, Mr. Pine. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0119par0146	Where are the banners?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0120par0147	You missed the signs, didn't you? Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. I came running, running to give my speech as a member of the Plan and Budget Commission. Why? Right now, we've been talking about a new bag law upstairs at Plan and Budget Commission for three days. If we finish today, we'll discuss it within the next week. And we've been talking about the number 60 law we're talking about in the last week at the Plan and Budget Commission, and we're meeting here today, which could be finished today. On 16/9/2014, the Government Speaker and Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc leave the Council of Ministers meeting... and after the meeting, the government Speaker Ariç, who made the statement after the meeting, says that you rightly say "I don't use it." We don't want to use that name anymore. We'll try to get the law on that job instead of the multimatter law. We're not trying to change a lot of laws and then put the name into the literature of the law, like a bag of rights. The law accepts zero mistakes." he says. I don't know if Mr. Bkent Arinc has any value to the AKP Group for today, but Mr. Arinc is over there working day-to-day in the room reserved for the Speakers of Parliament. Over and over and over, we asked, we said, "Friends, Parliamentary commissions and the General Assembly should do the legislature's job in the best way, and MPs should be able to discuss matters as judges in the commissions and in the General Assembly." Look, all four laws have been discussed, all four of them in the Plan and Budget Commission. While the Parliament Speaker is transferring the bills and proposals to the relevant commissions, the Parliamentary Speaker is separating them as commissions and fucking commissions. The Family and Social Affairs Commission, including the law we discussed today, should be discussed in the National Defence, Internal Affairs and Justice Commission, but was only discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission and came here. Now, you, Your Honor, are all members of different commissions. Well, don't you wonder: shouldn't you say that these laws, billings and proposals that have been discussed should be entered into our commission, that we should negotiate, that we should enrich it? You're supposed to say? You're not saying that, ruling party MPs, that's not what you're saying. Why? Because the order comes from above, it goes directly to the Plan and Budget Commission, where it will be discussed, and then it will come down from there. So let's eliminate all commissions, eliminate all commissions, raise the number of Plans and Budget Commission from 40 to 60, 70, 80, set up subcommittees, and let the Plan and Budget Commission alone meet, negotiate all laws, negotiate with the subcommittee, then come here. That's not true. That's not true. Look, for three days, friends, we've been going in at 10:00 a.m., the Plan and Budget Commission until 12 a.m., the birth of a woman who doesn't give a damn about us, child and mother's rights and care.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0121par0153	It doesn't?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0120par0154	What's the plan and the budget got to do with it? The Plan and Budget talk about what physicians, doctors and doctors should discuss at the Employment, Health, Family and Social Affairs Commission. You've discussed the subject of military service, the Special Sergeant, the Private and the Chiefs -- here, in chapter one -- about the colonels, about the soldiers, they're discussing the issue at the Plan Budget Commission when it should be discussed by the National Defence Commission. Dear MPs of the National Defence Commission, Labour, Health, Honourable MPs of the Family Commission, why don't you guys discuss them? There's a major injury in the process and a great joy in the process. What we want is for this pleasure to be eliminated and that Parliament has the right to make a quality law in accordance with the commission's purpose and in accordance with its procedure. It's also to ensure that the MPs work here in a more efficient, quality way, my dear teacher. But unfortunately, in your 13 years of power, that's where we came from... the old bowl, the old bath. Nothing's changed, sir. We have to get out of here. As such, this Parliament does not have a productive chance of working. Dear friends, there are important matters in this department that concern all of us very closely. One of the most important things, friends, is a comprehensive change in Electronic Signing Law 5070 and the Law on Population Services. There are important arrangements for changing personal data. However, this needs to be examined and examined in a very serious way on the relevant commission. I.D.s are changing, population wallets are changing. It'll go digital. There's gonna be some information. Who's going to get this information, who's going to share it? Who's gonna get our highly private information, folks? What's it gonna be? It's unclear. Last semester, in 2014, there was another draft of the AKP government's law on the hiding of personal data, information, but they withdrew it. Speaking on Tuesday at the Commission, the Minister said: "The law on the hiding of personal data in the Council of Ministers on Monday last week has been re-signed in the Council of Ministers, and will come in the coming days." Okay, guys, now that we have a new law proposal, drafts, proposals for the storage of personal data. So, what's the point of meeting these 10 articles and 8 articles here today, guys? What's the use? Here's our objection and our rebellion is constant and the miscommunications keep the House busy and the important issues ignored here, my friends. The issue of protecting and hiding this personal data should be discussed very seriously in the Internal Affairs, Justice Commission, and it should be taken care of, but we're now discussing materials here. That's not true. It's the wrong business to do, friends. You're constantly assigning the House to make false laws, and that's not true. Protecting our identities will go digital, new identity cards... 75 million new identities will be printed and distributed in the country, including Turks abroad, and there will be a fee for them. So, what's the dignitary of these identities going to be? For example, for example, will there be a religious house, a religious house? The European Court of Human Rights on this issue is unnecessary, you don't have to write it down. Although you still don't have to write about it when you go to a citizen's public office, if you don't write about it, he's going to look at it like a bogeyman. Why didn't you write it? Why didn't you write it? Why didn't you choose? He will confront such questions. Perhaps the work of that citizen in that public office will not be seen only because that religious house is empty. This isn't right, this is wrong, friends. We need to discuss this very seriously in the commissions and take precautions about it. Today, Mr. President roared again. Every week, every two weeks, we go out to the chiefs... and now we make arrangements for the chiefs upstairs.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0122par0163	Mr. Moses, is that a beautiful language?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0120par0164	Mukhtars, we offered to make your payments $1,500, but the AKP government offered $1,300. We've submitted a motion to pay your social security premiums from the state budget, which is unacceptable. We've made a motion for your electricity, phone and other expenses to be paid back from the budget again, and it's being rejected.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0123par0165	They didn't believe, they didn't believe...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0120par0166	But today President Erdogan says again: "One of the demands in the travel events was that the HES constructions be stopped. " I give up, I give up, friends, that's all.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0123par0167	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0124par0168	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0120par0169	Millions of people went out into the street in the division, and he said: "We don't want these trees to be destroyed.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0123par0170	What did his representatives say?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0120par0171	At the same day and same time in Brazil, millions of people went out on the street and the president of Brazil came out on television, and he said: "Young people, we received your message, and it will be done. It's time to go home.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0125par0172	Are they back? In Brazil, they did not return.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0120par0173	AKP Speaker Mr. Bkent Arinc said: "We did it wrong, we should have gone out and said to the TV: "We have received the message, this will be protected and protected, now is the time to return home." When you should have said that, you chose to kill people and slaughtered people.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0126par0174	Tell me about Yalova.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0120par0175	But we do know that I want to end with a saying...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0126par0176	Tell me about Yalova. Also mention the trees in Yalova.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0120par0177	We know that in a country ruled by a thief, a murderer, honest and honest people end up either in prison or in the grave, and we're ready for it, my friends. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0126par0180	Oh, come on! Come on, man!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0127par0181	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Now I'm going to do a question-answer procedure on the second part for 15 minutes. Initiating process. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0128par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, under the 10th Amendment of our Constitution, there is positive discrimination against the disabled. Without a defect from disabled persons, you will receive $8 for the state's new birth certificate arrangement. We have 12 million disabled citizens in Turkey. Is this country going to sink if it doesn't get the price of this identity from our disabled citizens? I mean, even access to the population managers of our disabled citizens is a real problem. They can't reach our population managers, the buildings of public institutions aren't suitable. Please, let us exempt the disabled from this fee. The 10th article of our Constitution brings positive discrimination. In accordance with the social state principle, the disability must not be charged with identity. And if it's going down, screw this country for the disabled.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0127par0187	Mr. Karbük...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0129par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. The GDP rate of domestic savings was estimated at 16.1 per cent in the old OVP programme, and is now estimated at 16.5 per cent. Meanwhile, due to additional increases in public spending, the public savings rate has inevitably been reduced from 3.7 per cent to 3.4. In this case, the rate has been raised from 12.4 per cent to 13.1. But there are no policy proposals, which explain this growth directly, and there is a sentence: ▪ Private savings mechanisms will be carried out. May I have your opinion on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0130par0191	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0131par0192	I didn't hack into the system, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0130par0193	Okay. Mr. Sertel...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0132par0195	I want the minister to know that the rate of development in Turkey has been 3.3 per cent in the past eight years, that during political parties in the past, the Democratic Party, the Justice Party, even during the Mother Party, why the rate of development has been lower and that it has seen at this level, and that unemployment in Turkey has reached huge numbers, that one or two young people in each family are unemployed. Mr. Development, I'm sorry, I'd like to tell the Minister of Development that you can't manage Turkey. The tax you collected from Izmir is over $32 billion. Your public investment in Izmir is $704 million. You get 46, you get 1. Even Izmir Metropolitan City is investing more than your government. I wonder if the minister prefers the method of punishing him as the opposition, which is ranked 73.. in public investments per capita. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0133par0199	Mr. Starsniper...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0134par0200	Mr. Minister, Akhisar Municipality of Manisa has disbanded its contract with the construction of the stadium, Akhahisar Arena, on 21/12/2015. In the future, the courts will step in. If the decision is opened, the city will re-target for the rest of the department. How long until the rest of the chapter starts and how much will it cost? Do you think the government has been harmed in this matter? Are you going to step in on the status of the snake story for three years, or are you going to wait for something to happen to the fans who've traveled 70 miles in the home games of Akhisar Cityport?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0133par0202	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0135par0203	Mr. President, the district of Niğde Ulukışla is rich enough to be the center of attraction for mountain and bow tourism, as well as for thermal tourism with Havehan Springs. The Bolkar Mountains are a marvel of nature with their mines, caves, lakes. Mehmetpaşa Kervansara is also a sighting. The historical texture of the castle of Çakakçı and the villages and towns features the transitional path of Ulukışla. Darkneck, Badger, Orders, the cherry of the sword is world famous. The scientific excavation continues with Badger Zeyve Höyük, and the history of the region is lit up. Drinking and irrigation water comes at the top of the most important problems in our district. What's wrong with Ulukish, whose water supply is packed in three separate places, has been unresolved for years. He does not take advantage of the water that flows from the bay to the shed, of the water that flows in vain, of the water that is on the church, of the sugarpınar as it should be. The lack of drinking and watering water also prevents the development of the nation. The matter of drinking and watering water must be resolved immediately. What work does the government do in this regard?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0133par0205	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0136par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, as it is known, the pensioner's pensioner, the SEC and the BUG-KUR pensioner's pensioner's social security premium is still cut by 10 per cent after his retirement. We've been watching from the press that the government is working to remove this blackout. However, we see in the press that this study is only a misunderstanding that will involve BUG-KUR pensioners. By making this clear, I think that the SEC and the Retirement Board pensioners will also be evaluated from within this scope, and I think that the error should be corrected by telling both our Parliament and the public. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0137par0210	Mr. Kara...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0138par0211	Thank you, Mr. President. We think that Antalya's Gündoğtü Flightnsu Falls, Chenger Creek, Ahmetler Canyon, Bridge Canyon, and the constructions of the Mill and the mini HES over Alakir, or mini dam constructions, will drain our nature, drain our streams, and cause irreversible damage. Are we going to give up on this, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0137par0213	Mr. Haberal...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0139par0214	The officer, who has been banned from his profession by the Supreme Military Police decrees, has made it possible to extradite certain rights to our petty officers, but has been ruled without HSYK decisions on judges and prosecutors, but the implementation of the AGE decisions on military personnel remains, and no past rights have been restored. There are still some problems upstairs that I count. Do you have a study to resolve these problems and to repair the victimology, sir?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0137par0215	Mr. Bassman...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0140par0216	Mr. Secretary, I'd like you to take this up with you. In the November 1, 2015 elections, Ilyas Haytan and Alperen Ersoy, who had been assigned to photograph the candidate in election efforts for the Denizli AKP candidate, were in a car accident and lost their lives. I wonder if, after this loss, the City Hall kept its promises to the families. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0141par0219	Thank you. Minister, I promise you the answer. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0142par0222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there are many questions, and I will try to answer them briefly. First of all, Mr. Tanal expressed a subject of positive discrimination regarding the disabled. The price, you know, is 15 dollars in these identities -- I've just asked our fellow bureaucrats for international comparisons -- according to very, very low international comparisons, when you look at them in terms of Europe. And when you look at the costs, what we're going to spend on these identities as a government is going to be higher than what we're going to charge the citizens, so let me first express it. We also think of positive discrimination regarding our disabled ones: We will try to get home to the disabled without stressing out to the administrations, where we can get the necessary information to help the disabled reach those identities more freely in the process. Mr. Karbuk had a question about savings. Turkey is one of our most important issues. In fact, what we call current is another recipe for this. So the difference between our investments and our internal savings is kind of our current deficit. We're making an effort to reduce it, and in recent years, we've had considerable distances. At one time, our domestic savings were down to 13 percent; we will now increase our savings to over 15 percent, and hopefully by 2018, up to 18 percent. Here's the thing: in the last 13 years, we've increased public savings. The government is no longer as open as it used to be, and it contributes much more to savings. However, there has been a serious setback in private savings in the process. We're also predicting a variety of measures to increase this. So let me just give you one example: the individual pension system is a structure that actually contributes to our savings. And again, we encourage our savings with macro-cautious measures. In the coming period, we will be able to auto-engineer individual retirement, especially without giving up volunteering, and with similar measures, we will continue our efforts to increase our private savings. Mr. Sertel has brought up the pace of development and the unemployment issues. Despite the global crisis, only in 2009 did we experience a reduction. Other than that, Turkey has suffered a stable growth during the AK PARTY administrations. Thankfully, Turkey did not face such a situation, while many countries paid the price of this global crisis very heavily for its citizens. Our average growth rate -- if I remember correctly -- is around 4.7. And that's not a little bit of growth when you think about the global conjoncture we're experiencing. And in 2015, we estimate that we're at a four percent growth rate. In terms of employment, it is clear by the numbers that we are one of the most successful countries. From the first quarter of 2009, when the global crisis peaked, Turkey's economy produced about 7 million additional jobs. And I think that's admirable. I can tell you about Izmir's investments: of course, we invest in Izmir (Izmir) as well as in all our provinces as in the public. But please don't view our investments as just investments in the budget. On the other hand, we're making serious investments in public-private cooperation models, such as the Istanbul-Izmir highway, like the billions of dollars in investments or investments in airports. If you don't see them and only look at some of them, you might get the wrong results. Mr. Star Biçer has brought up a very specific issue about a tender in Manisa. I don't know about this particular problem, it's the city. A clearer answer can be received from the city, and our Home Office can answer that question more clearly. I don't have any detailed information at this time to answer that question. He brought up a topic on a status tender. Mr. Gürer has expressed the tourism issues of Ulukış. It's one of the places I've visited, and it's also important in terms of transportation, which has real potential for natural beauty. I believe this town will come to much better things in the future. Of course we can look at your problems together with our other ministers. This is also part of our KOP area. In this case, our COP Administration will take good care of it. On the other hand, Mr. Whitestar has brought up the issue of these pensioners, which is being discussed in the Plan and Budget. Let's leave it to Plan and Budget, because there's a lot of detail in there. The details there will guide our citizens better. Mr. Kara has expressed that there have been some problems with the small HESEs. Really, we all have to be sensitive about these things. In these matters, we also have a policy in the government's programme not to have very small-scale HES (as a principle). There will be a more selective approach to these small HESECs in the following period. Mr. Haberal has expressed military matters, issues related to age decisions. You know, with the constitutional changes we've made, we've opened the way to the judiciary on these matters. Thus, it is possible to correct mistakes that could be made within the framework of judicial control.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0143par0234	It's about how the age decisions don't apply.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0142par0235	But, I don't know about any of the other stuff. Mr. Basmacı also mentioned a car accident in Denizli. I'm just saying, God rest his soul, he talked about our people who died in the process. Of course, it's a very specific, singular event, I don't know what the exact details are, but I'm sure our municipality is interested, and I'll try to remind you. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0144par0238	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on Article 11: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and recommend that the declaration of the Republic of Turkey be added to the declaration of identity in Article 11 of Article 11 of the Law shall be adopted in accordance with the Law on Military Law number 60 and Amendment in some Laws. Mehmet Günal Erhan Master Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir Mustafa Mit Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of the Law to some Laws and Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Sadi Bilgic and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair of Justice and Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; on some Laws Make Changes. With all due respect. İbrahim Özdish Akın Üstüdağ Ancient Durmaz Sakla Khakat Bihlun Tamayligil Selin Sayek Böke Tulip Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of Law Bill 60 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Diyarbakır Bitlis Hakkari Erol Dora Berdan Özturk Mithat Sancar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0145par0263	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0144par0264	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0146par0265	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0144par0266	Mithat Sancar, Mardin MP for the proposal which the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Sancar. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0147par0270	Mr. President, we're going to disseminate our views on the current law, but today there's been a lot of discussion about academics in the General Assembly. As an academic and as a person who has met a large portion of the academics who have signed the controversial declaration, I would like to share my views with you here as a teacher of some of them. I'm going to present a few examples from recent history and distant history to those who accuse those who have signed the declaration of committing terrorism, accusing them of treason. Again, I'll leave the commendations to the public and to you. One or two examples of our country from recent history are the examples of the Enlightenment Proclamation, you know. It was declared an enemy of the state. Those who signed the petition of the Enlightenment. They criticized the order of September 12th, but at that time they were branded as traitors. Then those who branded and branded them became ashamed and remorseful. A statement from more recent history, a declaration of freedom to the headdress, with the signature of some of the colleagues sitting at the AK PARTY. At that time, those who signed the declaration were lynched, targeted for days, and said to themselves: "You are enemies of secularism. Why did they ask for freedom from the headscarf? Sir, they did not say we wanted secularism. They were declared traitors for something they didn't say. During that time, investigations were launched -- I remind you -- there was a witch hunt in the universities about themselves.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0148par0274	Is it the same thing?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0147par0275	Another example: On February 28th, those who had been identified as religious for any reason were subjected to witch hunts, declared secularist enemies, terminated, some expelled from universities, some of whom were elected MPs at this time. That's when we stood behind all of this. The investigations that led to those people, my friends who lived here at the time, my friends who lived in that time, opposed these practices. After 9/11 2001, many intellectuals, including those who signed the current Academics' Declaration, accused the Bush administration of supporting al-Qaeda. Why? Because they opposed practices that were motivated to create ideas or crime under the name of anti-terrorism, practices that led to Islamophobia. Among those people were Noam Chomsky, Judith Butler, and their signatures are in this statement today. They were told: "You are either against terror or you are against it." If not, you support Al Qaeda. Another example is Edward Said. We all know Edward Said, across the wall, he threw stones at the wall that Israel had built, he was lynched, they wanted him expelled from the university, but his university took care of him, and he said, "This is freedom of ideas." He said, "It's the university of Columbia. Another example was from Sartre, when French planes were slaughtering in Algeria. He said that you support terrorists. No, I criticize what you do. He's been lynched. Who took care of him? President De Gaulle said Sartre is France. I can increase the samples, but I think these should give me enough ideas. These people are the target of the lynching campaign today because they didn't say what you wanted them to be, from the President to the Mafia leaders. Colleges are opening investigations, trying to liquidate them. The day will come, and today will not be too late, and this will change, of course. We're living in a very bad time right now, and everyone's trying to use everything as a tool of intimidation against each other. I'm sure those who support this lynching campaign today, especially against academics who want this environment to change, will be ashamed. Please consider these examples. With respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0149par0282	Thank you, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0150par0283	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit02spe0149par0284	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, and I'll look for enough in the motion vote. Those who accept the motion... those who don't... Congressmans, since there is no agreement between members of the Court in the census of the votes, I will vote with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled for a vote. In addition, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote be voted by any minister in the three-minute period envisioned for the vote, which carries the color of the vote and the signature of the vote with his name and last name. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's no decision enough, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0149par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 11 of Law Bill 60, the decision of Mardin MP Mithat Sancar and his friends was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who don't accept... the number of decisions that are sufficient. The motion is not accepted. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of the Law to some Laws and Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Satiya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Deputy Chair Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs, 35 MPs, and the Law Proposal for Making Changes in Some Laws, shall be changed in the following way. With all due respect. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The Fifth Section of Law No. 11-5490 has been changed to an I.D. card, International Family Wallet and Blue Card. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0151par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0149par0015	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0152par0016	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0149par0017	About the motion, Mr. Akın Üstüzdağ, Müğla MP. Here you go, Mr. Supremedağ. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0153par0021	Dear President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. My dear friends, as many clerks, many opposition party spokesman have said, we continue with this period's bag of laws. We're up against another bag of laws. We're discussing the basic law of the bag law with an application for this period's Nobel Prize. It's very interesting. By this law, you re-organize and sell the identity card directly to the citizen of our citizen. Giving an identity card to a citizen is the most basic duty of any state. You're making money off this identity document, showing that your eyes are still in the citizen's pocket. My dear friends, I've sat down and calculated, we have about 78 million citizens, and when we calculate at $8, 624 trillion goes into the government's vault. Well, does the government need that kind of money? When you look at it, it's one in forty of the money you've spent on Syrian refugees, my dear friends, one in forty; one in a quarter of the extra income you've paid for smoking. I mean, we also see that the government doesn't really need this money very much. My dear friends, in the country, in the country, in the country, there's a lot of talk here, in fact, the public's agenda is very different, the fire in the citizen's kitchen continues, my dear friends and, praise be, the fire continues to grow steadily! Look, you gave the citizen 100 lira, you made him regret it, my dear friends. You've bored the hell out of people, raised them from needle to thread. Cars' mandatory insurance has tripled the cost. You abandoned the citizen at the mercy of more than half of the foreign insurance companies. There's a serious robbery at the insurance company right now, my dear friends. The price of oil in the world has become cheaper than water, but you still sell the most expensive gas in the world. If you go to justice, if your house is worth more money, if you buy a house, if you sell money, if there's asphalt in front of your house again, if you buy money, if you buy a car, if you buy a car, taxes as much as the price of the car, taxes, justice and deed, my dear friends are now tributes. Money on the highway, money on the bridge, money on the tunnel. Look, my dear friends, right now -- the only pay tunnel in the country is the shirt tunnel -- it's gone from $3.5 to $4.5, and it's gone from one way to another, and it's gone up to $3.13 in trucks, and it's gone up to $26, my dear friends. The increase in OGS and HGS is 38 percent. When you bought a cell phone, the first time you bought it, the tax went up 33 percent, up from $120 to 160, my dear friends. You said free health care, go to the hospital, go to the pharmacy, go to the money again. My dear friends, do you know that you give them a raise because no one can talk about smoking or drinking, but the more you raise, the more the citizen drinks more than his grief or his livelihood, do you know that, my dear friends? You haven't achieved inflation in ten years. Twenty-five million citizens are in debt to banks, 2 million,670,000 people, dear friends for execution. Here, this Parliament must claim the real agenda of the citizen. No one has the right to hold off this coven with this kind of display. I say we all bring together suggestions, not in the form of the law, but in the form of the bag, which will solve these problems of the citizen, with respect to all of you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0154par0028	Thank you, Mr. Supremedağ. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and recommend that the declaration of the Republic of Turkey be added to the declaration of identity in Article 11 of Article 11 of the Law shall be adopted in accordance with the Law on Military Law number 60 and Amendment in some Laws. Kamil Aydın (Erzurum) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0155par0035	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0154par0036	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0156par0037	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0154par0038	Kamil Aydın, Erzurum MP about the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0157par0042	Mr. President, there was something missing, and I'm going to complete it, but before we get to it, you see this bag of logic here, it's a law that we do by bringing some very important concepts to an end without discussing them. Sir, a fundamental principle is that it's a concept that's so intertwined in our language these days, it's peace. The concepts of war and peace are in fact opposite concepts, but there is a critical approach by famous linguist Mr. Noam Chomsky, that we don't say anything about science, but that we question his intellectuality. In this expression analysis, there is a need for harmony, especially between what comes out of the mouth and what is implied as meaning. Sometimes it comes out of the mouth, and here's Bush bringing peace to redesign the Middle East. In all terrorist organizations, there's always peace in their speech; they write the word "peace" in blood, not in ink. So we are in search of an intellectual who speaks in faith in the concept of peace. So there's also peace in international relations... look, war and peace are between two creations, conflict between two official structures... between war and peace between the two states. Here, we call it the First World War, we call it the Second World War, sometimes even if it's more micro, we call it the internal war. But we've made such concepts so meaningless today that we use the concept of peace very freely for everything ordinary, even for a terrorist act, or for anything we've asked for in the name of terrorists. We're not going to use those concepts. Sir, I've read this text from the intellectuals. I've actually read it, and I'm ashamed to read it. We just said we didn't say anything to the scientist I.D., professional identities. We can't say what we're going to say, knowing that the throat is nine knots, without knowledge, without proof. God forbid, it would bring about our intellectual identity, our academic identity. We may not be here tomorrow, but we have to tell the truth everywhere. If we're really looking for real intellectuals, not organic intellectuals, I'll give you a few examples, both from our culture and from the West. Sir, Socrates is an intellectual. Why? Because he's paid the price; he's told the truth and the truth everywhere. Knowing that he would go to the gallows, he said: "I will teach people to think. " Galileo is an intellectual, but he is also a physicist. Why? Because despite all the pressure, all the resistance, he said that he deserved it, that he knew it right. Erasmus is an intellectual, Thomas More is an intellectual. Sir, when we come to us, our greatest symbol of enlightenment is the Holy Prophet. He spoke the truth and the truth very freely, without bending or bending against any power. Sir, Imam Azam is an intellectual. I say it in pairs so you can compare. Mehmet Akif is an intellectual. Cemil Meric is an intellectual. Why? It's an illumination. It's the same in our culture because they paid the price. The people who speak the truth, the right, the fear of a sovereign structure, the fear of power, without any concern about material spirituality are our intellectuals. Thomas Moree, the English king, says: "Give me a fatwa, and we will forgive you. You are my friend. The same offer was made for Imam Azam. One is an example of the West, one is an example of the East. The same offer was made to Azamah the Imam, but he said that he deserved it everywhere. What would be the result? The result, sir, has been suffering, torture, torment, but they have named our history as great Turkish intellectuals, great world intellectuals. Mehmet Akif is one of them. Absence lived in misery, but it always cried out that it deserved what it deserved. You see, what we lack is that you deserve, that you know what's right, that you don't... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm saying that armed power is the one who shouts without being under the influence of illegal force, without having to worry about safety.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0158par0051	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 12th article, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law on Military Law number 60 and the Amendment to some Laws are under Articles No.1 and 2 of Article 5490, which has been replaced by Article 12 of Article 5490. We offer and propose that the lu dams be replaced in the following way. Mehmet Günal Erhan Master Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir Mustafa Mit "The Council of Ministers is authorized to determine the system to be used for production and personalization through the design, supply, distribution and delivery method, with information on the ID card. (2) The type, quality and age of biometric data on the identity card is determined by the Council of Ministers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 12 of Article 12 of the Law Against some Laws and Laws Act 60, as well as the amendment of the Laws Act (1/414), and Isparta MP Saryya Sadi Bilgiç and Vice President of Justice and Development Party Group Chair Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and to change the 12th Amendment in some Laws. With all due respect. Seyit Grandson Ancient Durmaz Selin Sayek Böke Machmoud Tanal Yakup Akkaya of Tulip Article 41 of the Law No. 12 - 5490 has been changed in the following way. "The Ministry is authorized to determine the system used for production and personalization of the card with information on the ID card, which will be used in design, supply, printing, distribution and delivery method. (2) The type, quality and age of biometric data on the identity card is determined by the Ministry. (3) The application of individuals who will receive biometric data is essential. The identity card application of children without biometric data is made by guardians or guardians who are obliged to report on 15th and 17th articles. (4) Biometric data stored in central database cannot be used except for identification procedures. (5) A person can identify the person who will receive the identity card with written consent during the application. (6) In case the identity card claimer and the person registered in the population logs hesitate to be the same person, the law enforcement officer's orders will investigate the property. (7) In applications due to the loss or exchange of an identity card, a temporary certificate of procedure and origins can be provided by the Ministry, which is valid until a new one is given. (8) The identity card cannot be placed on its identity card, except for what is foreseen in this Law. No identity card can be held by any person or institution. (9) After the marriage process is completed, couples are given international family wallets. (10) International family wallet and blue card are suppressed by the design and number of Finance Ministry specified by the Ministry. Family wallets and blue cards are sent to the Ministry of Finance to be given to the finance officials in the country and to the foreign diplomatic missions abroad and to the Local Register Offices and to their marriage officials in the country. International family wallets and blue cards are at the highest price of 3,000, and will be given to the Local Register Office in order to pay the price later, in order to be paid in advance, in case of 3,000 parties. (11) The identity card, international family wallet and blue card price are collected during the application. If the birth certificate is made within its legal time and under Law 2828, the value of the identity card will not be charged with the value of the paper. (12) International family wallets and blue cards returned due to false writing are deducted from the price of valuable paper. An identity card will not be charged if the identity cards are changed due to faulty production or writing. (13) The procedure and the basis for the transfer of identity card prices to the treasury are jointly determined by the Ministry and the Ministry of Finance." Now, I'm going to read the motion and process the most infractional of the matter. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th article of the current 60 rows of the Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0159par0094	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0158par0095	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0160par0096	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0158par0097	About the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with, Mr. İdris Balaken is a Diyarbakır MP. Your time is five minutes, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0161par0100	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're talking about a bag of laws that are particularly focused on military service, which are mainly on rights of equity and foreign currency. In fact, our friends from time to time expressed that I wish this Parliament had discussed these laws here today with an agenda of peace -- which is the most fundamental issue of Turkey -- but unfortunately, let alone any agenda on peace here, we're discussing, in contrast, bag laws that encourage war practices. This, of course, is a very unfortunate, and it's going to go down in history. We know that in this country, let's make as many military arrangements as we want about security as we want without discussing basic issues in Parliament, opening dialogue channels, opening politics as a solution, we don't have a chance to solve these issues. This is what we know, in fact, many members of the ruling party who are sitting at this time know, and so does Mr. Prime Minister, who is in charge of the government today, but today, unfortunately, Mr. Prime Minister is in a position that has been stripped of his authority, his initiative has been taken away from him, so he's signing the exact opposite of his views and policies before he became Prime Minister. We interviewed him many times before we became Prime Minister. Mr. Davutoglu has repeatedly said that the people in Rojava are not enemies of Turkey; he has repeatedly said that the Kurdish issue will not be resolved by military measures; he has expressed countless wrongs the state has committed against the Kurds and has said that there must be a confrontation. But whatever's going on, once he's taken over as Prime Minister, all of a sudden, he's taking on policies in a completely reversed orbit. Because he doesn't have the authority, so he's in charge, but he can't use authority. An academic, who we know as a conscientious teacher, who, when elected Prime Minister, can there be a different political prime minister profile all over Turkey? Next thing we know, he hits the table with a bad knock-off and turns out to be a hard-core, pro-war politician. Why is that? Because the authority is elsewhere. And since the authority is elsewhere, I'm afraid this country is driven to disaster every day. Look, 17 days ago, let me tell you about a speech by Mr. Davutoglu, about the academics. 17 days ago, he called out to Turkish scientists abroad: "In Turkey, freedom of ideas will be granted in an absolute sense. It's been largely passed through our time, but if there's any difficulty in terms of freedom of opinion, the political responsibility is on us. I say, as a Prime Minister with 49.5% of the votes, we don't want a scientist to stand hand-to-hand in our presence. Again, as a colleague, he says, "No matter what it takes, I have not held my hand in front of anyone, I have not given up my opinion, and do not deliver it, even if it is the most contrary idea." But we're looking at it today, as the academic Prime Minister said 17 days ago, unfortunately, the first days of what happened were silent, and after that, you're all dark. You're on a mission here, folks. Remind Mr. Davutoglu that he is a Prime Minister who receives 49.5 per cent of the vote, to exercise his authority, to exercise his initiative, to act on the truth. In this country, I went out and made a regime change, and whether you agree or not, it's actually changed. When he says, "It's most important that you say it's over the Prime Minister." Because you didn't say so, unfortunately, you're falling into the position of a government and ruling party who seek authority elsewhere, take direction elsewhere, and therefore face unresolved policies. That's why our problems are getting deeper. We'd like you to give up this path as soon as possible. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0162par0108	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0163par0109	In his speech, Mr. Baluken teased the Prime Minister, who had his authority taken away from him, doing the opposite of what he said.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0162par0110	The Prime Minister has made a mockery of the government.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0163par0111	Yes, sir, and also to our president, you know.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0162par0112	Okay. I'll do the motion, sir, and I'll give you my word. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I promise you two minutes of bullying, Mr. Bostanci. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0164par0118	Mr. President, dear friends, Mr. Prime Minister's powers are clear in the Constitution and in the laws. That's exactly what he does with his powers. There will be no situation outside of these jurisdictions. The meaning of Mr. Baluken is, I suppose, a contradiction between the President and the Prime Minister; it comes from there. Isn't that what Mr. Bauken means?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0165par0120	That's what the president said, that's not what happened. He said, "The farm is not good." Didn't he, Mr. Botanci?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0166par0121	Yeah, right, right, double...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0164par0122	Dear friends, Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister are two people who have traveled for many years. Already, the world's views, the way they look at Turkey, the way they approach the country's administration, the people who are similar.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0167par0123	That's why we feel sorry for Mr. Davutoglu.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0168par0124	He was also a traveling companion with Bulent Arinc!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0167par0125	Whoever he was traveling with was wasted, so we're warning him not to waste it.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0169par0126	The important thing is that as the president and prime minister of the EC PARTI, the Prime Minister, he uses his rights, his law, everything, to the end, of course. There's no problem with that. The point is: In the face of the success and reputation of the AK PARTY that has been achieved for 14 years, it seems to me that those who can't rely on their own strength, who have lost hope of receiving support from the nation as a desperate strategy, can we create a problem in the AK PARK? At least here they seem to rely on a political approach in the form of a crack, if we create an explosion. This is not a correct and consistent approach. The important thing is to go to the nation, to get the authority from the nation; to have the weakness, to crack, to hope for a result from within the AK PARTY, to deprive the environment of its claim to be political perpetrators. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0170par0129	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0171par0131	Mr. orator, those who can't trust their own power during their speech, those who can't find a solution in this matter, are trying to create a crack in the AK PARTY, and they're picking on the public.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0170par0132	And I give you my word on the 69th Amendment, Mr. Bauken. Here you go. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0172par0136	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've made it perfectly clear. When the President of this country comes out and says, "I've changed the regime in this country, I've actually implemented the understanding of governance, so send the constitution after him." Naturally, he eliminates the Prime Minister's current powers. Look, so far -- we don't want to have too many ideas about party operations -- but it's been public. So all public opinion knows what Mr. Davutoglu is thinking, from the choice of the party bodies, from the selection of the central executive boards, to the concession of the coalition talks. He also said that after June 7th, a coalition government must be established, that the people's will should be based on this issue, but unfortunately, before that constitutional process was even completed, the president had to overthrow the coalition table as he had toppled the solution table. So in this country, it is clear that President Erdogan's intervention is essentially everywhere where political decision-making processes should be formed. World leaders meet in Antalya. The Prime Minister, who should be dealing with world leaders, is not in a single photo frame. So if you're saying that all of this is normal, it may have normalized a certain function from your point of view, but it's not normal for the public.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0173par0139	Are the pits normal, the pits? Tell me about the pit.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0172par0140	Mr. Davutoglu, we are now hearing from people who we have been contacting about the concept of this war, about the concept of the massacre against the Kurdish people, and when we feel that politics must take initiative in this matter.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0174par0141	How shameless of you! And you're slaughtering...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0172par0142	But what should he do? Orders from the top.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0175par0143	You get it from Kandil, you get it from bigger places! Don't take it from the PKK.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0172par0144	From there, the same practices continue because he says, "Keep on fighting, keep on going the way of the presidency." My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0176par0146	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0177par0147	You've fallen into a pit, haven't you, Mr. Baluken? How are you going to get out of that hole?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0172par0148	You're gonna fall in that hole, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0177par0149	That hole attracts you a little more every day.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0172par0150	You've already fallen, you've fallen. We're here, we're here. We won't fall.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0178par0154	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 12 of Article 12 of the Law Against some Laws and Laws Act 60, as well as the amendment of the Laws Act (1/414), and Isparta MP Saryya Sadi Bilgiç and Vice President of Justice and Development Party Group Chair Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and to change the 12th Amendment in some Laws. With all due respect. Seyit Grandson (Army) and his friends Article 41 of the Law No. 12 - 5490 has been changed in the following way. "The Ministry is authorized to determine the system used for production and personalization of the card with information on the ID card, which will be used in design, supply, printing, distribution and delivery method. (2) The type, quality and age of biometric data on the identity card is determined by the Ministry. (3) The application of individuals who will receive biometric data is essential. The identity card application of children without biometric data is made by guardians or guardians who are obliged to report on 15th and 17th articles. (4) Biometric data stored in the central database cannot be used except for identification procedures. (5) A person can identify the person who will receive the identity card with written consent during the application. (6) In case the identity card claimer and the person registered in the population logs hesitate to be the same person, the law enforcement officer will be asked to investigate. (7) In applications due to the loss or exchange of an identity card, a temporary certificate of procedure and origins can be provided by the Ministry, which is valid until a new one is given. (8) The identity card cannot be placed on its identity card, except for what is foreseen in this Law. No identity card can be held by any person or institution. (9) After the marriage process is completed, couples are given international family wallets. (10) International family wallet and blue card are suppressed by the design and number of Finance Ministry specified by the Ministry. Family wallets and blue cards are sent to the Ministry of Finance to be given to the finance officials in the country and to the foreign diplomatic missions abroad and to the Local Register Offices and to their marriage officials in the country. International family wallets and blue cards are at the highest price of 3,000, and will be given to the Local Register Office in order to pay the price later, in order to be paid in advance, in case of 3,000 parties. (11) The identity card, international family wallet and blue card price are collected during the application. If the birth certificate is made within the legal period and under the Law 2828, the value of the identity card will not be charged with the value of the paper. (12) International family wallets and blue cards returned due to false writing are deducted from the price of valuable paper. An identity card will not be charged if the identity cards are changed due to faulty production or writing. (13) The procedure and the basis for the transfer of identity card prices to the treasury are jointly determined by the Ministry and the Ministry of Finance." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0179par0174	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0178par0175	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0180par0176	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0178par0177	About the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with, Seyit Torun, MP of the Army... Here you go, Mr. Grandson. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0181par0181	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin with the 20th amendment of the Constitution. Article 20 of the Constitution states that each person has the right to ask for protection of personal data related to him. This right also includes information about personal data related to the individual, accessing these data, demanding correction or deletion of them, and learning whether they are used for their purposes. Now, with this legal arrangement, biometric data is added to the information found in the family logs. So there are biometric methods, such as fingerprints, palm maps, retinas, that can help identify individuals. Dear lawmakers, these data are personal data. This data will be processed and used during the presentation of public service. The use of personal data has always raised concerns about individuals and has raised discussions about these methods. At the beginning of these concerns are concerns that people are under constant supervision. The citizen has every right to be concerned because what we've been through in the past, what we've dealt with in the past, has driven us to paranoia in that sense. I also want to express something in this sense: How will the data recording system be created in this sense? How much will this data be used? How long will it hide after it's used? What measures have been taken into consideration in the preservation of these data? Have effective control mechanisms been created to prevent abuse? Have all the measures for protecting personal data been taken? We don't know what's going to happen after the biometric data to be collected reaches its goal of using it. In the past, the proposal for the law on databases has been drafted, but since the foundation was not created, unfortunately it did not become legal in 2014, it did not. The data is supposed to be stored electronically. Well, aren't each of the issues of biometric data gathering, hiding, processing, are the elements of national security? Wouldn't the archive of three different biometric data from each citizen create a national security deficit that fuels the appetite of foreign intelligence services? How will this data be kept electronically after the recent cyber attacks? If this information is obtained in such a cyber attack, are we to blame the ODTU (ODTU) or other institutions? I think we'll find a place to blame again, as usual. Because we're all witnesses that they've repeatedly accused the science nests they want to destroy, who don't swear to themselves about things they don't know, what they don't understand. Because the government wants to pass an arrangement on such an important matter within a bag of law, before its infrastructure is prepared. Of course, this bag of laws is one thing. We don't know if it's a bag or soup. Unfortunately, without enough debate on the commissions, without a discussion of the relevant commission, the Plan and Budget is coming to us, and we're just expressing our criticism and, unfortunately, we're legalizing the issue. We're getting a little bit out of here, and the law passes. Since I don't have the time, I won't mention it anymore. The I.A. Commission, the expert on the subject, will take this matter into consideration and, unfortunately, go over it again without discussing it. What the AKP government knows best is to tag people, institutions. It's not too far, and we've all seen the laws they've made in their previous lifetimes from here. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the population records in our country do not reflect the truth. The voter system was literally not created. The transport populations and large cities were made. Unfortunately, power can't prepare the infrastructure of any system. Laws submitted to parliament by the government are brought to parliament, regardless of their proposals, without work, as if they were smuggling goods from the fire. Although we do now know how power handles opportunities, how they specialize in it. The laws that are made are incomplete, and they're creating problems again, solutions... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...passed. There are no regulations for permanent and constructive international standards. Now, he's adding biometric data to the family logs. He says good riddance, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0182par0194	Thank you, Mr. Grandson. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law on Military Law number 60 and the Amendment to some Laws are under Articles No.1 and 2 of Article 5490, which has been replaced by Article 12 of Article 5490. We offer and propose that the lu dams be replaced in the following way. Kadir Koçdemir (Bursa) and his friends "The Council of Ministers is authorized to determine the system to be used for production and personalization through the design, supply, distribution and delivery method, with information on the ID card. (2) The type, quality and age of biometric data on the identity card is determined by the Council of Ministers. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0183par0203	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0182par0204	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0184par0205	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0182par0206	About the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with, Mr. Kadir Koçdemir, Mr. Bursa MP... Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0185par0210	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. As a society, we have a habit, a disease. We start a lot of applications, but we don't do the results of the application, and we don't do revisions based on that result. And we believe that technology can solve a lot of things when it comes to technology. We put the whole system into electronic data, while many of our friends can't do fingerprinting and polling on this Assembly General Assembly. The same issue is in our incentive legislation. For example, we don't see the incentive laws that we've been implementing over the years to reduce the difference in inter-galactic development, such as Gemlik, who ranked 46 percent in socioeconomic development, and that a county like Grandorhan, in the 717th row, can exist 60 to 70 kilometers away from each other. The FATIH Project and I receive a lot of electronic equipment, but we don't see our schools and education in international rankings, such as PISA, to be the last. A similar thing is also true of the protection of personal data and privacy using electronics after many trials with listening. In the countries of the European Union, some of the practices that we have agreed upon and have never discussed have been lifted by the Constitutional Court's rulings and banned from implementing them. For example, the German Constitutional Court did not respond to the use of video cameras to measure the speed of vehicles. Because it's possible to detect the vehicle by taking pictures alone. It is against the privacy of personal life to record those who pass by for twenty-four hours following traffic rules. Again, it's not possible for the cameras in the workplace to get even eight inches of footage from the sidewalk to record. Here today we leave a lot of matters that concern privacy and the safety of personal data to the State Department's discretion and authority. This is a dangerous situation. In this government period, Turkey has seen for itself where certain institutions have reached, especially those in charge of the government. So we think that at least being identified by the Council of Ministers will lead to a more purposeful conclusion. And what we neglect is that we neglect the human element in these practices. With this practice, our population agencies will re-enter a major working pace. The provisions of Resolution 666, which regulates overtime, have predicted that an officer will be paid overtime for at least six months a year. Prior to this, during the transition to MERNIS and the Addresse Dayayan Population Registering System, population workers were given the opportunity to apply this six-month shift as one year for five years. In this new era, it would also be helpful to provide a lot of effort and an opportunity for the employees of the population agency to work overtime. In these respects, it is not the Ministry of the Interior, but the Council of Ministers that it would be useful to determine these broad powers and to support our motion, and I offer all of you with respect.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0186par0219	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the Republic of Turkey be added to its title in Article 13 of Article 13 of the Law shall be adopted under the Law on Military Law number 60 and on some Laws. Mehmet Günal Erhan Master Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir Mustafa Mit Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 13 of Article 13 of the Law Against some Laws and Laws Codes (/414) and Isparta MP Sariya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair and Chair of Justice and Development Group Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and to change some Laws. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamayligil Selin Sayek Böke Tulip Carabinieri Yakup Akkaya Özcan Purçu MADDE 13-5490 has been changed in the following way, along with the title of Article 42 of the Law. MADDE 42- (1) The format and scope of identity cards and international family wallets are used by the Ministry as printed and printed request documents. An identity card is not required to arrange a claim based on birth records. (2) The Ministry is authorized to implement or remove demand documents without application and to set the duration of their hiding time." Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13 of Law Bill 60 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0187par0250	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0186par0251	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0188par0252	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0186par0253	Mr. Erol Dora, Mardin MP who has asked for a statement on the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0189par0256	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0186par0257	You came yesterday, Mr. Erol Dora. I was surprised you came after a long break.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0189par0258	Well, since I'm in the area, of course...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0186par0259	Welcome.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0189par0260	I, too, wish the President the pleasure of this mission.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0186par0261	Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0189par0262	Indeed, he is a worthy ruler of our House. We expect the same administration from all our friends. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on Article 13 of Law Bill 60. I salute the General Assembly. I've always thought to myself that when we evaluate the Middle East and our country in private, all of the problems are actually due to the lack of universal values, enlightened values, universal freedom of faith, freedom of expression, and as you can see, people are allowed to kill each other because of their beliefs, because of their beliefs. From this point of view, I'd like to talk a little bit about that. Dear lawmakers, as we will recall, a citizen of ours applied to the European Court of Human Rights in 2006 for the violation of religious and conscientious freedom of conscience, and the European Court of Human Rights concluded that it was contrary to the 9th Article of the European Convention on Human Rights, which Turkey is a party to, on thought, conscience and religious freedom. The European Court of Human Rights emphasises that, in its original sense, freedom of conscience and religion, as well as that it is one of the basic building blocks of society to live together and that it is also a very important component of the way of life and identity of religious people, as well as that it is a very important achievement for those who do not believe. You know immediately after the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the declaration of religion on the identity cards on the 9th article could not be associated with freedom of thought, conscience, and religion, in 2010, our government went to a superficial and new arrangement that could be left empty when asked to. Dear lawmakers, I think it's not hard to predict that Turkey's non-democratic, non-independent vision of the international arena will continue, with the new identity cards we've discussed where we come from, and the fact that religion remains in place, disregarding the universal legal decisions of the AKP government and ignoring the European human rights laws. A citizen carrying a non-religious identity card will be immediately separated from citizens whose identity cards are left blank and at the risk of interfering with official authorities in the public domain against his will, which will bring up a systematic tag application. Again, in essence, the state's free passage here that the religious house can be left empty means that it is directly official in the hands of the citizen. Such a situation no doubt contradicts the concept of freedom of religious faith and freeness of thought. Look, when we evaluate the 1982 Constitution -- we always stress that it's a junta constitution -- even in this Constitution, there's a sign that everyone has freedom of conscience, religion and conviction. No one can be forced to attend meetings, religious religions and ceremonies, to explain their religious beliefs and beliefs. Look, although there is such a clear ruling in the 82 Constitution, it is also contrary to our Constitution that people still have religious houses in their identities and are left empty or forced to declare them. We still believe that if we can't solve these simple problems in this way, how we can live together, how we can evolve into a peaceful, democratic republic. I had a lot of different ideas, so I'm cutting it short because it's not enough time. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0190par0273	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0191par0275	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit03spe0190par0276	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, so I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions in the vote. Those who accept the motion... those who don't... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger. Closing Time. 18.29
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0190par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Mardin MP Erol Dora and his friends was not enough to vote on Article 13 of Law Bill 60. Now, I'm going to put the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there is enough of a decision, there is not enough of it. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 13 of Article 13 of the Law Against some Laws and Laws Codes (/414) and Isparta MP Sariya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair and Chair of Justice and Development Group Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and to change some Laws. With all due respect. Özcan Purçu (Izmir) and his friends MADDE 13-5490 has been changed in the following way, along with the title of Article 42 of the Law. MADDE 42- (1) The format and scope of identity cards and international family wallets are used by the Ministry as printed and printed request documents. An identity card is not required to arrange a claim based on birth records. (2) The Ministry is authorized to implement or remove demand documents without application and to set the duration of their hiding time." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0192par0017	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0190par0018	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0193par0019	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0190par0020	Özcan Purçu, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Purçu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0194par0024	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 13th Amendment. My respects to all of you. First of all, I have a question for our AKP group deputy. The Minister is here. Mr. President, always refusing, always refusing; maybe 100 offers were made. Why is this happening? Are one of us working for Greece, one of us working for Germany? Mr. President, please, we have suggestions, opinions. We work for the Republic of Turkey, we work for the people of Turkey. We might have an idea. Don't accept 90 of them, at least 10 of them, Minister. I mean, I want to contribute to my country. Why is this happening? I want to raise my country, I want to praise it, I want to criticize it for once. We all work in this country, folks. Always refusing, always refusing, always raising your hand. Please, Mr. President, let's do some research and raise our hands. Even though he doesn't know it, he's coming out at the entrance, raising his hand. He can't see a thing. I looked from there, he raises his hand, but he doesn't know why he's raising his hand. I mean, there's no such thing. Look, this country is all of us, this state is all of us. These people expect our services. We have to work hand in hand with all our strength to do this, folks, that's one. Second, I got a speech on the identity issue. Unfortunately, I regret to inform you that we now have many citizens in the Republic of Turkey who have no identity. For that reason alone, we have poor, poor, poor citizens who can't go to school, who can't get welfare, for that reason, sir, who can't take advantage of the hospital, who can't take their medicine. Look, I'm showing you a certificate of haymatlos for a citizen who's been struggling for 40 years in İzmir. Look, here it is. I covered it up so some of them wouldn't show. Look, I'll get you a thousand like this, guys, a thousand. Forty years of court proceedings... they gave my brother a refugee certificate the last day. I'm following him myself. I mean, let's watch out for these. We can't reach the population managers, my dear brothers. Census administrations... two years of court process, no, here comes information from Ankara, where we're destroying the citizen to get a population paper out. I've worked for two years myself, and I can't identify a citizen. Look, Haymatlos, the court has been in session for 40 years... this is our citizen, my friends. And it says here: "Greek haymatlo." There's no such thing. We're close, and we have a little bit of a kinship thing. I mean, he can't prove himself because his parents are dead, and this brother can't get an I.D. I'll get you a thousand of these, if you want. Let's give instructions to the Local Register Offices, friends, to the relevant locations, to do the population arrangement accordingly. And we're taking this money. We have the poor, we have the poor. What's he gonna pay for it, fellas? Believe me, I mean, we have a citizen today who can't find bread, so let's think about them. We're making the law up there, let them be crushed. There's no such thing. Down there, on a day, we have people who collect garbage and earn bread; sometimes we have people who don't earn $5, $10; we have people who don't have jobs. This is the truth of our country, no one can deny it. So let's make these arrangements accordingly. Last, again, the Ministry of Environment adopted a regulation, as of January 1, 2016. Look, my dear friends, it's very interesting and very painful to our brothers and sisters who collect garbage under environmental law 2872... look, this brother of ours earns his bread out of garbage, sometimes $10, sometimes $5, sometimes if it rains. He collects a ton of garbage, collects paper; this brother earns $20, $30, no job, no power. The Ministry of Environment has just launched a fine of 122.748 lira. This brother collects garbage, he can't sell it, guys. Look, there are protests going on in Istanbul and in Kopeeli. If this brother can't pick up garbage, he won't be able to eat bread. A law was set up, the Ministry of Environment, municipalities and the interested company took over the garbage collection business. So, this citizen -- we couldn't edit the bottom, we edited the top -- what's he going to do, die or starve? He's already sick, poor, poor, unable to earn bread. Guys, look, let's think about the poor while we're editing. I mean, look, this brother of ours can't pick up garbage now, he can't sell. All the garbage collectors get 122,000 lira fines, and there are friends who get fined. So, what's he gonna do, die? This is our citizen, isn't it, Mr. Secretary? So, please, friends, cancel this immediately. Mr. Group Vice President, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, let's cancel this immediately. Look, in Turkey, about 700,000 of our citizens live on garbage, friends. Let's do the infrastructure, let's not break the law upstairs, so let's think about everyone but the weird, the poor, please. With all due respect, I hope you'll arrange it, I'll wait. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0195par0039	Thank you, Mr. Purçu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Bostanci, do you have a commitment request?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0196par0042	Mr. President, thank you. If I had a chance to talk before the vote, I'd make an evaluation. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0195par0044	Well, thank you, Mr. Bostanci, but the invitation of Mr. Purchu is open, perhaps you'll consider it later. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and recommend that the declaration of the Republic of Turkey be added as head of Article 13 of Article 13 of the Law shall be adopted under the Law on Military Law number 60 and on some Laws. Nuri Okumutan (Isparta) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0197par0050	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0195par0051	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0198par0052	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0195par0053	Nuri Okuttan, Isparta MP about the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Reader. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0199par0057	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute everyone with respect and respect. Actually, I made a promise yesterday, and I had a chance to explain some of my ideas there. And now it's only a short while, so I'll try to wrap it up right away. There's a security issue being discussed rightfully. We all have to prevent these private information from falling into the hands of individuals who are not involved. We understand the sensitivity here, but as someone who's worked here at the Census Department, and who's been managing the property, I know that the staff there and the system there are safe, and I'd like to brief you at this point. There, about 130 million data have already entered the system, and that 130 million data -- including the dead -- is very safe. The building has been locked up several times in a serious cage to prevent information from being obtained from the outside. In addition, the link between counties and cities is linked to fiber optic cables, special cables. On the outside with the website, you can't hack in. It's a safe place in that sense. Besides, other agencies, you know, they're taking advantage of this database. It is not only given in front of the population information - neither religion, personal marriage, divorce, and other forms; only parents, and names are given there. And in that sense, there's nothing wrong with the transfer of personal information unless it's given from the inside, but what we really need to focus on is this card, this card is about $10, so we don't know what's going to happen. We'll give all authority to the Ministry, the Ministry will tender it. In the ministry, in particular -- my general manager here -- we trust the team there, but don't let these cards be tendered to places that go and curse people again. We're going to be followers of it, we're being sensitive here, because it means that it means about 1.5 billion dollars, and 10 percent of it will continue each year with something worth 150 million dollars. So we're sensitive about it. There, when this bill passes, the exemplary practice will begin in Kırıkkale, and in this year the implementation will begin throughout Turkey. During this practice, of course, the Local Registering Office's staff -- about 10,000 personnel -- is already a very busy process of the Address Recording System and other, MERNIS Project. Now, the passport and the driver's license will also be uploaded to the Local Register Office, depending on this system, and there will be a serious increase in transactions. In that sense to the staff -- my governor has just stated -- there is no doubt that the increase in overtime -- is not limited to that six months, at least that border has to be taken into account by the Census Directorate staff, or we will fail to do so; one. Two: The General Directorate has about 1,500 available staff, staffed, but not filled. This staff must be filled as soon as possible. It's about the county managers, and right now, their equal county managers are able to take advantage of a slightly higher additional indicator than the county managers. He receives 3,000 additional indicators, which should be moved to 3,600. Local population managers also receive 2,200 additional indicators, which should be raised to at least 3,000. We have to be able to do these things. And I'd like to put it this way: despite all this importance, despite its importance, it's clear that even these words can't be expressed by the ruling party, that we, the opposition party, have to pass on this information here. Because we still have reason to wonder if the material side is attracting more attention. Even the way it was brought in, even though it was a very important law, it should not be evaluated in the Commission, not being discussed properly here and not being given that information, that raises our suspicion. With these feelings, I salute everyone with respect and respect.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0200par0065	Thank you, Mr. Reader. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the terms "80" and "500" in Article 14 of the Law Bill for Change in some Laws and 60 of the Military Laws that have been discussed to "50" and "1,000." Mehmet Günal Erhan Master Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir Mustafa Mit Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 14 of Article 14 of Article 14 of the Law Against the Law and Laws Act No. 60 of the Military Law, and the amendment of Article 14 of Isparta MP Saryya Sadi Bilgic and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair of Justice and Justice and Development Party Group and Chair of Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; We propose and recommend the amendment of some Laws. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamaylıgil Tulip Moses Pine Jacob Akkaya Selin Sayek Böke The first jokes (b) and (c)bents of Articles 14-5490 of Law 14-5490 have been replaced as follows, and the third ones (a), (b) and (c) are removed from effect. "b) Those who fail to carry out the obligation to report the marriage during the period are fined by local population managers and foreign diplomatic missions abroad for 50 Turkish liras. "The 50 Turkish liras are issued to those who are not obliged to report the change of address in their lifetime, and the 250 Turkish lira fines for those who make a statement against the truth, as well as for the authorities of property within the country and foreign diplomatic missions abroad." Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the current 60 rows of the Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Mizgin Irgat Dilek Ocalan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0201par0097	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0200par0098	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0202par0099	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0200par0100	About the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with, Mr. İdris Balaken is a Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0203par0103	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, once again, I salute you all. I've just stated on the stand that the legal regulations for promoting the war are being brought to the agenda of the Assembly, especially with the increased wages of police and soldiers in the region who are conducting the war. But if you'd bothered to come into the area, if you'd talked to the police and soldiers there, you'd have seen the immediate solution to the problem that each of them's expectations were a lasting peace, but unfortunately, since you haven't been there, I'm talking about the problems that people have been through -- in terms of security -- you can't see the psychological structure that we call posttraumatic stress syndrome. So, you know, you're afraid of death, you're afraid of life, but we're raising your money, you're giving the message that you're going to have to live that fear a little more money, send it to death with a little more money. So you're just saying that because it doesn't work out for you. Look, this Congress hasn't sent a single more collaborative commission into the area. There have been so many deaths, soldiers, police, civilians, guerrilla deaths; there have been bloodshed every day; there are 45 days of curfews in one city; there are over a month of curfews in some cities; this Parliament has not sent a commission there yet; it is embarrassing. That's not the only agenda. If it weren't for the group proposals we brought in as HDPs, imagine that this Parliament will never discuss the matter, and will not take an agenda on the daily loss of lives here on its own. I'm ashamed, ashamed as a congressman. What could be more important than that? Look, at this hour we're talking about, the European Parliament is talking about curfews in Kurdish provinces right now. Over the next week, he will hold a meeting with this agenda alone, and the European Parliament has decided to send delegations to the provinces where this curfew has been imposed, with MPs from each party coming soon. It's a shame! The European Parliament will form and send delegations, and there won't be a delegation from our Parliament that will bother to go there. When they ask us, is there a report prepared by the council? No, we will say, "No, there has not been any report prepared, there has not been any commission." As a member of this Parliament, we will be curious about the contents of their report, and we will wait for it; what could be more shameful than that? I mean, everyone here has to have a sense of responsibility, a sense of responsibility. You won't be able to do this, see: When we enter as HDP MPs, we can no longer go to cities without curfew. Our deputy, who could not enter Mardin, Midyat, Şırnak, spent twenty-six hours in the street. Are you going to do the same thing to future committees?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0204par0108	Why do you encourage terrorism?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0203par0109	You're not gonna let him in? You're not going to take the European Parliament MPs, either? The governors won't take their calls? When they work there, will you try to suppress their will with gas, batons, pressure? You won't. Then why are you making this House so dysfunctional? Is there anything more important about this House? Let's say that we understand this place, that they were once oppressed, that they are now able, that they have become states, that they have turned their backs on the public, that they have brought about that stateization, but we also criticize the main opposition party, that you have a convention, that I want to stay on something, but the main opposition party says there is a coup in this country. It says there is a war. It says, "There is a Saray coup." He says, "There is a war on the palace." He says, "There is a war." Your authority to form a government has been declared, and since you do not know the way to the palace, we do not give you authority to establish a government. They said, "You described it as a coup." You say coup or democracy, but you're as passive as you can be. With that understanding, it is impossible for this House to come up with any solutions for these political parties. We need to get to our top priority. Don't send poor Anatolian children to their deaths and put politics aside. No one wants to die, even if they have plenty of money. I'm saying that if you stop the bleeding, stop the killings, and then make an arrangement about the money, you'll bring it here. I salute you all. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0205par0115	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0206par0116	In the speech of Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0207par0117	Mr. Sky requested it before you, but let me do the motion and then I'll listen to you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0208par0119	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0207par0120	There is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. I'll look for enough to decide on the motion vote. Those who don't agree... Since there's a difference of opinion among members of the Court as to whether or not the decision is sufficient, I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help if they can't get into the system. Also, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote be voted by any minister in the two-minute period envisioned for the vote, which carries the color of the vote and the signature of the vote with his name and last name. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's enough to make a decision. Motion denied. I'm having the other motion read...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0209par0130	We had demands.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0210par0131	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0207par0132	I'm sorry, I was going to give you my word. Mr. Sky, I'm listening, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0211par0134	Sir, Mr. Baluken made some assessments in his speech regarding our party that we were passive, that we were passive. I want words according to 69.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0207par0135	Here, I promise you two minutes, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0211par0138	Mr. President, I've been promised that Mr. Idris Baluken's People's Party of the Republic will remain passive, passive when these events occur. He won't do anything. Mr. Baluken, that is not a true claim. The Republican People's Party is the first party to share those decisions with the public on the 4th day of the month of its first declaration of private security zones in Tucson, which were implemented in the east and southeast of Turkey, in many regions today, as they try to implement them as extraordinary and martial law. Throughout the past summer we've traveled east and southeast, my dear friends. And right now, all of our attention is related to terrorism in the east and southeast, innocent people who have lost their lives, our martyrs, and the wounded. Doctors of the Republican People's Party in Diyarbakir have identified the rights violations in Diyarbakır yesterday and have shared this with the public. The previous week, again, Republican People's Party women's deputies reflected the sensitivity of the Republican People's Party by bringing help to the region. We share our views every day by receiving very vivid and serious information from the region. Our President-General invited all the presidents of the eastern provinces last week to hold the pulse of the region and be in close contact with the region by giving them instructions. We're trying to do our part in this frame. In this regard, of course, some visits were not made in areas where curfews were imposed because they were not visited. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As soon as possible, I'd like to share with you the knowledge that we'll always be in the east and southeast. My respects.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0212par0146	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0213par0148	You send people, security guards, to their death with money, you don't know the area. He's been taunting our group, Mr. Bauken. In this frame...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0212par0149	And I promise you two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0213par0153	Mr. President, dear friends, you don't know the area. We know the area, we have deputies representing the area. We live here because we know not only the region but the whole of Turkey, but Mr. Bauken and his friends, the HDP, yes, they know the region with us, but they don't know the whole of Turkey. To look at the region with a mind that knows all of Turkey and to take the necessary measures will only ensure this country's national unity and unity, or people will be as the wise Chinese say -- please don't take an investigation out of this place. What can I say to the frog who is a prisoner of the knowledge of his own swamp? If you are subject to the knowledge of a certain place, you will not be able to see the whole of Turkey. It's important to see all of Turkey. The second one says that you send security guards to pay for their death. Security guards get paid, but what they do isn't just a salary-related customer relationship, Mr. Baluken, but they also have a very noble moral side to their duties. The unity of this country, the future of this country, the security of the people's lives and property, is not quantifiable; you must know that well. The security guards there don't do it for money, they do it for this nation, they do it for the people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Bauken, you're sending people to pay for their death. He means, "Don't send security duties there, pull them out." Then I don't want to think of it this way: let the security guards go, let them face the terrorists. I don't think that's what you mean. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0214par0159	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0215par0160	Mr. President, during his speech, he was clearly picking on me.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0214par0161	In what sentence, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0215par0162	He picked on me over and over again. I mean, we need to get the security guards out of there...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0216par0163	We don't have a relationship with the PKK, I refuse. Are you going to say that?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0214par0164	Okay, here you go. And I promise you for two minutes, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0217par0167	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. This is a matter of not knowing other parts of Turkey, Mr. Naci. So you're talking here as the government party that personally arranged for the 170 election work we did in Turkey before June 7th.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0218par0170	Not at all, not at all, not at all. Very, very wrong.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0217par0171	Yeah, yeah. In 170 places, before June 7th, we stopped at the polling in Turkey, our party buildings were burned down, our friends were martyred.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0218par0172	It's not a criticism, Mr. Baluken, it's not.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0217par0173	No criticism, okay? Who ruled? We know who planned it, where it came from. Come on, we're past that. Yet, look, on June 7th, we destroyed the coup dam with 13.1 per cent of the result.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0219par0175	You're accusing someone else.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0220par0176	Your true face has surfaced.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0217par0177	What happened after that? Between June 7th and November 1st, you sent continents to our party workers and offices in Turkey -- the number of people you've raised to 170, 400 -- where you've sent racist intelligence led to the work of the People's Democratic Party. You burned down our headquarters a mile from the House here.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0221par0178	Did we burn it?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0217par0179	Is that something that's not on your report card now? We continue to carry out our political efforts in all parts of Turkey, and we will continue to do so. So no matter how much you block it, no matter how much you hold it together, we're not going to take a step back on this. Oh, about the other thing, I always say, you're a good demagogue here with a mask of silence turning the truth upside down. I never meant anything like that in any of my sentences.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0222par0181	You are also the spokesman for the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0217par0182	I said that it would only make sense if we stopped people from dying... and the security forces there were afraid of death... and that these laws would be discussed here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You want to send him to his death like a frog in a boiling water. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0223par0187	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0224par0188	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0223par0189	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0224par0190	You have burned down our general centre, you have launched an attack in 170 places.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0223par0191	Here you go, Mr. Botanci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let's just say this is the last time, please state your words, sir, in a way that does not challenge a new taunt. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0225par0196	Mr. President, dear friends, I assure you, I certainly don't want to answer here all the time. What we mean by that is that the law is to be discussed here and that the House is working on its way home. But with Mr. Baluken, there's always this kind of polemic stuff going on. Mr. Baluken's dropping the dropped bomb, and we have to respond. You've launched an attack on our government, our ruling party buildings. He's making a claim. Mr. Baluken, if you have some documents, data on this...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0226par0197	There is, there is, there is all of it.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0225par0198	...there are public prosecutors, please apply for them. If there is terrorism in this country, the ethnic identityist is only appointed by political and ideological references, and it has nothing to do with that ethnic identity, and the environment of blood and terror is being created, people in this country are affected by it and are doing actions that we absolutely do not accept or approve of. We reject them and firmly deny the burning of HDP district buildings, including its headquarters.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0227par0199	We're condemned, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0225par0200	Guys, the AK PARTI buildings have been bombed, the AK PARTI buildings burned down. Mr. Baluken, we didn't hear anything from you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0228par0201	Our district presidents have been kidnapped, Mr. President, so let them have a word.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0225par0202	I'm not saying this to race party buildings after all. When such events occur, I'm afraid, it comes with it when tension increases in society. Rather than seeking the government behind them, it is more appropriate to think about why this political atmosphere of Turkey is changing and what is our share? Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0229par0205	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0230par0206	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0229par0207	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0230par0208	I mean, he said I threw the bomb out of the podium.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0231par0209	Metaphor, metaphor.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0229par0210	He meant it metaphorically...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0231par0211	Metaphorically speaking, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0232par0212	No, I mean, the whole conversation's being picked on again.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0229par0213	...but if you consider it a taunt, please, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0231par0214	Mr. Baluken, metaphor, metaphor.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0232par0216	I salute you all again. Mr. Bostanci, I want your government to have no planning or involvement in this matter.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0231par0218	I don't.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0232par0219	As long as you're the ruling party, your first-degree government is responsible for the attacks in 400 places, including the headquarters of a political party in this country, that's one. Secondly, we were in constant contact with the Home Secretary, Deputy Minister, and the Governor of Ankara a minute before undercover officers placed that attacker within our headquarters, including our headquarters. They kept telling us that you were taking the necessary precautions. However, those who said that the necessary measures had been taken, then we saw that from Trust Park to headquarters, they opened the way for the attackers and then put that attacker inside the party building. What do you stand for? We're not looking for the government behind this, but who are we looking for? It is a coincidence that after targeting the President, after attacking the Prime Minister HDP, co-Chairs, lawmakers with heavy accusations, the attacks were carried out in the media close to you after a campaign that held HDP as usual. We know exactly where all this is going. Those of us who have not even taken the precautions, unfortunately, have led the process of burning all those parties through deep forces in the dark zones of the state. We have never sanctioned any attacks on the AKP office, and we have always condemned the attacks we've heard about. In this case, if you haven't followed him, he's your responsibility. But your responsibility as the ruling party is clear and clear about the fact that the opposition parties were not able to hold a single rally before an election... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Turkey is part of public knowledge.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0233par0224	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Akçay, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0234par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. In the General Assembly, I'd like to present a remarkable subject for days and weeks to the attention of both the General Assembly and your presidency. Both the Justice and Development Party and the Republican People's Party speakers, usually if there's some bullying against their own parties, there's some bullying against our group, our party. They demand and try to answer. It's understandable, it's reasonable, but what's remarkable is that, outside of their own party, here, on the stand, I find that by various speakers, there are certain values of our country, its existence, its name, its names, its names, its names, its names, its names, its names, its names, they have no objections, and I find that they have no objections. As the National Movement Party, we reject phrases like the Kurd provinces, the Kurd cities, which have often been expressed here, as we have already stated. Do the Justice and Development Party and the Republican People's Party have no objection to these statements, sir? I'd like to bring this to your attention.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0235par0232	Mr. Akçay, that's not on the agenda, sir. Such an issue was not discussed today.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0234par0233	It wasn't discussed, you know, I'm discussing it.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0235par0234	Mr. Akçay, look, I thought that I promised you that you would contribute as part of the speech of Mr. Bostanci and Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0234par0235	It's a contribution, sir. It's a contribution to the General Assembly's negotiations.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0235par0236	This is something else, sir. If you'll excuse me, I can't...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0236par0238	The Kurdish provinces were expressed here. Turkey has Kurdish provinces?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0235par0239	Now, lawmakers, we're discussing a matter here, we're discussing a law proposal. While the proposal is being discussed, the speakers are demanding a statement on the grounds that under Article 69, there has been bullying or bullying of their political party groups. And I give them my word by considering these demands under Article 69 of the Civil Code. And if I don't see any bullying, I don't promise. I promise you, if there's bullying. If there's bullying, I have no right to not make promises. Now, that's what I do. Mr. Akçay, if you want to bring such a matter to the Parliamentary platform, of course it's your freedom, your group's freedom. Here, your speakers will come out on another occasion, and they'll talk about it very freely, sir. Now, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0237par0242	Mr. President, I'm so sorry. I didn't discuss your commitments or anything like that, and I didn't say it was wrong, but I made it true, not about that. But I've made it clear to the record that there are no objections to some of the statements expressed during the debates here, and I wanted to draw attention to that. Please, friends...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0235par0243	I understand that this statement has been filed. In other matters, if you have an opinion, of course the speakers can express it on the stand.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0237par0244	You mean when you're just teasing the party?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0238par0245	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0235par0246	Mr. Gök, I beg you, let's end this here, let's go to the motion, sir. Now, I'm going to read the other motion.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0239par0248	When the Constitution is taunted by the Turkish nation... the government is silent, sir, and the government is silent, so there is a silent government.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0235par0249	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 14 of Article 14 of Article 14 of the Law Against the Law and Laws Act No. 60 of the Military Law, and the amendment of Article 14 of Isparta MP Saryya Sadi Bilgic and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair of Justice and Justice and Development Party Group and Chair of Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; We propose and recommend the amendment of some Laws. Mustafa Tuncer (Amasya) and his friends The first jokes (b) and (c)bents of Articles 14-5490 of Law 14-5490 have been replaced as follows, and the third ones (a), (b) and (c) are removed from effect. "b) Those who fail to carry out the obligation to report the marriage during the period are fined by local population managers and foreign diplomatic missions abroad for 50 Turkish liras. "The 50 Turkish liras are issued to those who are not obliged to report the change of address in their lifetime, and the 250 Turkish lira fines for those who make a statement against the truth, as well as for the authorities of property within the country and foreign diplomatic missions abroad." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0240par0261	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0235par0262	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0241par0263	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0235par0264	Mr. Mustafa Tuncer, MP of Amassiania about the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Tuncer. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0242par0268	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on Article 14 of Law Bill 60. I salute the Assembly of the Great Nation. Precious lawmakers are intended to remove the 14th amendment of Article No. 60 -- and the third (a) and (c) benchmarks of Article 5490 (b) of Article 68 (b) of Population Services Law No. 5490 (b) and (b). The 68th article of Population Services Law 5490 organises administrative fines for those who declare an illegal settlement and those who make false statements to the population manager. The bill aims to narrow down the scope of the substance. In the article of the article, the concept of those who are obliged to report the events of the population has been established, while the bill has been obliged to report the matter of marriage, and the coverage has been narrowed, and the pre-empt of arbitraryness has been extended by not being part of the joke. Again, the third joke (a), (b) and (c) dams found in the text of the law will be removed with a change. This is a false practice, for in situations where the current clause is not caused by a person's own flaw, there is no punishment for natural disasters, theft, and so on. For example, as a social state, these kinds of administrative punishments are not given to orphaned children. However, with the new bill, with no distinctions, all situations and everyone are subject to administrative fines. The bill extended the scope of those who would receive administrative fines and increased the amount of administrative fines imposed. Why the amount of fines was increased was not justified in a satisfying and convincing way. However, this arrangement is ineffective, although the honorable MPs are obliged to report a change of address with the first joke (c) of Law Article 5490. In particular, the change in placement used deliberately during election times should be considered a criminal offense. As in the November 1st elections, a teacher living in the same house for sixteen years in Amasya (Amasya), as in every electoral district, has written that an unknown person is living in this house of our friend, and despite all applications, no results have been made. Our teacher friend didn't get to vote even though he lived in his own house. If the punishment for deliberately abusing the change of address is severe, such abuses will be minimal. Dear lawmakers, the amendment to the relevant law is related to Turkish family law, or marriage. The Constitution of the Republic of Turkey counts as the attributes of the republic, while it is a democratic, secular and social state. In the state of law, the rules of law dictate the rules of society. The Turkish National Assembly has the authority to set the rules of law, and the Grand National Assembly cannot override its authority. In the book Family Law of the Turkish Civil Law, published by the TBMM, marriage has been clearly described. Also in Article 129 of the Turkish Civil Code, marriage barriers have been considered, and those who are prevented from getting married are prohibited from getting married. According to this, there is a ban on marriage between the upper lineage and the lower lineage, between uncle, uncle, aunt and nephew. So it is strictly forbidden for a person to marry his parents and children. However, a recent answer to a question on the website of the Ministry of Religious Affairs has recently been made to be seen as acceptable between a father and a daughter, in a manner that law and morality would not accept. The Ministry of Religious Affairs has given the exact answer: "There is a difference of opinion on what marriage will be if your father feels lustful kissing his own daughter.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0243par0275	Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0242par0276	The mother of the daughter is forbidden to this father, if he kisses her with lust, and embraces her with lust, according to the servants. Dear lawmakers, this answer of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is clearly against the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, the Turkish Civil Law, and the Turkish Penal Code.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0244par0278	It's wrong of you to bring a subject that's been reciprocalized here, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0242par0279	It's against the rule of secular law. And that statement is a crime. Because according to Article 41 of our Constitution, the state is obliged to protect children against all abuse and violence. The President of the Religious Affairs has forgotten that the Republic of Turkey is a secular, democratic and social law state, or unconsciously speaking.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0244par0280	Someone attacked the website. They retributed it.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0242par0281	Legally, I condemn and appeal to the President of the Religious Affairs who has made a conscientious, moral, and non-religious statement and allowed this statement to be made.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0245par0282	There's no such explanation. You're talking about what's not, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0242par0283	Dear MPs, the number 60 under discussion, the 14th article of the Law Bill will be withdrawn and will soon be relocated to the TBMM... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...I demand that it be brought along with the Bill of Protection of Perpetual Personal Data, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0246par0287	Thank you, Mr. Tuncer.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0247par0288	Mr. President, just for the record.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0246par0289	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0247par0290	Religion has denied it, has declared that there is no such statement on its website.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0246par0291	It's been filed, Mr. Bostanci, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the terms "80" and "500" in Article 14 of the Law Bill for Change in some Laws and 60 of the Military Laws that have been discussed to "50" and "1,000." Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0248par0298	We'll leave it to your appreciation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0246par0299	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0249par0300	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0246par0301	Mr. Deniz Depboylu, Aydın MP, who has asked for the commission's approval and the government's motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0250par0305	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, before I begin my speech, I salute your grand delegation. First of all, in yesterday's treacherous attack in Çınar district of Diyarbakır, I ask God's mercy on those who have lost their lives, especially the children, the baby, and our martyr, and wish the wounded immediate healing. Again, I also condemn today's treason attack on 8 schools and 1 dorms by terrorists in Şırnak İdil. Today, in fact, as of history, there is another meaning. Today is the anniversary of the death of Ma'am Zübeyde, the mother of our Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. We owe him a debt of gratitude for the son he raised. With respect, I wish you mercy. God rest his soul. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I have made a promise today to discuss the law under Article 14 of the Law Bill 60 presented at the General Assembly. However, I would like to draw your attention to an application that is not in the best interest of the victim in removing the bendi (a) from the third joke, again, in Article 68. No administrative fines have been imposed in the case of the loss of population and family wallets due to all natural disasters, extortion, theft, fire and terrorism. Here, especially natural disasters and fires are events that cause severe traumas, including financial and loss of life. In this case, we would expect the proposed changes to be prepared in favor of our citizens, considering their difficult situation. In the arrangements, I understand and find the precision shown in reporting the marriage event, but I expect that the problems in family and marriage will be heightened, the violence in women is increasing day by day, early marriages are tolerated, the number of missing children will also be high in the AKP government, which cannot be clear, and the precision of all these problems will be shown in the measures taken. A research commission has been established to protect the family union, which will investigate the reasons for the divorce, and today he held his first meeting. I wish it would be a blessing, and I hope it will be signed to solve our family problems. I don't think the work needed to be done in the increase in violence against women is enough. Because we know that in the last decade, the number of women's murders has reached about 7,122. It is not appropriate for us to report the late marriage event, but it is an unforgivable mistake to reach women who need help and ask for help and to be unable to take the necessary precautions. Many women have died of insensitivity. The problem with early marriage is that it's a problem that shouldn't come up in this age, and even when we bring it up, it's a subject that we're at a loss for, unfortunately, a real problem that we're facing. One of the most important social problems in Turkey today is, unfortunately, children's marriages. According to data from the Turkish Statistical Agency in 2014, 1,670 men and 34,629 girls have been married between 16 and 17 years old in our country. However, we do know that the number of children married in Turkey is around 181,000. Because, given a section between 16 and 17 years of age, this research was conducted, and again, the official wedding, official records are taken into account, but we do know that children of younger age are married in imam weddings, except for the official wedding, unfortunately. Again, unfortunately, the Constitutional Court has lifted the official marriage clause at the Imam weddings, and in this case one of the obstacles to early childhood marriages has been lifted. As for the problem with the missing children, I'd like you to consider this matter once again, considering that last week's motion was said no. Because I want to bring one question to your mind in particular. It requires greater sensitivity to keep track of a life, or to keep it alive, and it needs to be reconsidered. I would also like to request that the same records of Syrian refugees entering this country and not just Turkish citizens regarding the population and marriage records be kept with precision, and their records taken. I trust our High Council to resolve these problems. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0251par0321	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who do not accept... the 14th article has been passed. There are three motions on the 15th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of the Law to some Laws and Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Sari Bilç and Justice and Development Party Deputy Chair Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and the Law Proposal for Changes in some Laws (Isparta MP Sadi Bilç) will be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Musa Pine Ancient Don't Stop Bihlun Tamayligil Tulip Carbage Selin Sayek Böke Yakup Akkaya The following article has been added to Law 5490. In other laws, the reference to the identity card of the Republic of Turkey is referred to as the identity card of the Republic of Turkey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and single that the declaration of the Law shall be changed in accordance with Article 15 of Article 15 of the Law to change the Law on Military Law number 60 and some Laws. Mehmet Günal Erhan Master Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir Mustafa Mit Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 15th article of the current 60 rows of the Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Wish Ocalan Garo Paylan Alican Front Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0252par0353	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0251par0354	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0253par0355	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0251par0356	Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman MP of the Commission and the government disagreed on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0254par0360	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding the current bag of legislation. Unfortunately, we're going through a period of time when defending peace is praised for crime, warmongering, which is only in our Turkey.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0255par0362	What does it have to do with matter?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0254par0363	There's a trendy word right now: traitor. Is it treason to want our young people, our children, to live in this country, to want lasting peace? What I'm about to say is treason? You blessed death; you said to them, "Happy martyr." You said, "Not everyone can have that." Does that always happen to your poor children? I don't have a tongue to say, but what will you say when these poor people come back and say, "God bless you?" No one is a martyr by trading with the ships of Israel; but what happens is a poor man, a poor man, a poor man. Thanks to the country. Is it good, thanks to the country, when they die, when the people die? It's not the coffins of these children, it's not the death of these holy children, it's the peaceful life of these young saplings in their own vineyard, in their own garden, in their home. This country is of all people. Laik, from secular lifestyle to Kurds, from Kurds to different groups of beliefs, when we all want to live together in equality, freedom and peace, it becomes a common country, or it will only be the homeland of those who come to power. Look, even in the death you've blessed so much, you're discriminated against. A Alevi soldier believes in his own belief that when his funeral is removed from the prison, you don't go to the estate and administrative chiefs. When it comes to it, you can say, "Excuse me, Armenian." You don't even consider the Aleki, the Armenian, a martyr. See, that's discrimination, even in death you discriminate. If it's something that can be so happy, come, rank, authority, the rich, let us and our children go to the front first, not the child of the poor. Then you'll see if the war lasts a day. Oh, if we can't do that, let's sit down, talk, discuss, create a minimum democratic environment where we can talk, discuss. But, we're looking, in the opposite direction, you're trying to silence anyone who wants to talk, anyone who talks, you're trying to shut them up. A teacher of Ayþe was afraid of the thought of just one person, this sense of war. The children are dying. Since he said, "Don't let these children die, don't be silent." Because it was a sound to keep it alive, and you know it's far more effective than your thousands of tanks, your cannons.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0256par0368	We weren't afraid of teacher Ayþe, but we made it clear that his fraud was not true even though he wasn't a teacher!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0254par0369	If you try to silence Ayþe teacher, if you threaten to investigate, how will anyone talk, not open the door to war?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0256par0370	There is no teacher named Ayşe. Don't think of him as a teacher. It's disrespectful to 900,000 teachers!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0254par0371	Academics call for peace, the Mafia gives him the answer. In this country, if it's up to the mafia to talk about politics, government, if you don't react, there's gonna be a lot of blood, and we're all gonna drown in it. Look, the constitutional debate continues today. So what kind of constitutional debate are we going to have with concepts like the traitor? What kind of constitutional debate are we going to have in this conflict, in the war environment? If we want to make a real constitution, let a mutual truce be declared just to discuss the constitution. Look at the area of freedom of press today, look at arrested journalists, look at social media as a statement, look at the state of the judiciary, look at corruption, look at relations with neighbouring countries, look at the state of the country, look at the results of different religious groups, of Alevi studies, look at the development of ISIS, look at the covered grant, look at the tender law. Bring legal arrangements about these areas, let's discuss them, let's discuss them. I say we bless life, not death. Look, you're bringing in TL, euro-priced laws for the price. You forbid a man what is rightfully his, and then you ask for money. In two ways, the poor one's life is the price. Here's what you call people who are not in the same economic situation - the military or the bank. A soldier with no money, a bank with money! Do you think it's human and conscientious? You're taking legal tribute from people by making these payments legal by denying people the right to conscientious rejection. So, what's the solution? You give people the right to conscientious objection; you don't go away, you don't go away. People may not want to be an accessory to human death because of their political, personal morality or religious beliefs. It's a thought, a way of life. It's our job to respect that. Again, I say: "Unfortunately, there is no safe return from the alley." Therefore, if this continues in both the Middle East and in international relations and in the region, it is close to a dead end. Let's get back to peace and peaceful politics before we hit a dead end. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0257par0378	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the Law shall be changed in accordance with the Law on Military Law number 60 and on Article 15 of the Law on Some Laws. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu (Hatay) and his friends I'm having the signatures of the other motion read: Ancient Durmaz (Tokat) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0258par0388	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0257par0389	Does the government agree with the motions?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0259par0390	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0257par0391	Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu, Hatay MP who has asked about the proposals. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0260par0395	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before you start my speech, I want you to take a good look at these pictures. [[Pictures shown by the preacher]] Mr. President, the high-profile MPs were attacked simultaneously by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists in Çınar district of Diyarbakır province last night with bombs to the Command and District Security Directorate, rocket launchers, long-barreled weapons, asking for God's mercy and immediate cures to the wounded who lost their lives as a result. I curse the separatist terrorist organization and the baby killer PKK, and those who support and support them repeatedly in front of the Turkish nation. I ask God's mercy, as a friend to the Turkish nation and family, as a member of the Turkish community, as a member of the High Guard Sergeant Metin Klüş, who died in these treacherous attacks last week with police officer Mehmet Senol Çifçer and his daughter İrem Mevlüde Çor, who was killed in Diyarbakır Sur. Congressmans, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on Article 15 of the Law on the Amendment to the Laws and Laws of 60 rows. I salute your high council again. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've prepared my speech on the bill, but I'm deeply sorry and impressed that we, as a Hatayian, have been making martyrs over and over in a week. So I'd like to continue my talk with Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's address to the Turkish youth: O Turkish youth! Your first duty is to preserve and defend Turkish sovereignty, the Turkish republic forever. This is the sole foundation of your existence and future. This foundation is your most precious treasure. Even in the future, you'll have your own evils, including those who would want to deprive you of this treasure. If one day you are forced to stand up and defend the Republic, you will not think of the possibility and the possibility of what you're going to be in to be put in charge! This opportunity and its correlation can manifest itself in a very unique way. Hostiles who would refer to the Republic and the Republic could be the guardians of an unprecedented victory all over the world. With algebra and deceit, all the fortresses of the land of the saint were seized, all their shipyards were broken into, all their armies scattered, and every corner of the land could be occupied. Those who have power within the land, even more than all this, can be found in heedlessness and confusion and even treason. In fact, these ruling owners can express their personal interests with the political ambitions of the muslims. Guys, the difference may be that he's devastated and exhausted. O son of the future of the Turk! Your duty is to save the Turkish will and republic! The power you need is found in the noble blood in your veins. As the National Movement Party, I would like to repeat our infinite trust in the Turkish nation and the Turkish youth here once again. As the National Movement Party, I wish that any decision made in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should be taken into account our concerns for our country and our nation, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0261par0411	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. He's going to talk about the other motion, Khakat MP Ancient Durmaz. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0262par0416	Mr. President, members of the High Council, I salute you with respect and respect. I ask for the mercy of all our citizens who lost their lives in Diyarbakir today. I have made a commitment to the Fourth Bag Act, which is being held in the Supreme Assembly, under the Military Code number 60, and to the draft bill for amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures. Dear friends, what should we do? A statesman has grown up in the century, and he has been granted to the Turks of Cenab. I pray to the mother who gave birth to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, whom she called Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Zübeyde Haným, on the day of her death, that she may have mercy on the day of her death. Dear friends, as we know, there are a lot of residency commissions in the House, but unfortunately the Plan and Budget Commission is in place of all commissions, and these laws are forced to be removed more quickly than to contribute, rather than to be seen in sufficient fellowship groups. This bill we're discussing today will be passed along with it, one of them. I have made a promise of identity card and how to implement it. Dear friends, as you all know, the cost is unknown, its properties are discussed, and the identity card will be presented to our 78 million citizens, bringing with it a chaos. The change of the identity card of 78 million people will take a long time to change their identity card, and in the meantime, we will receive very serious money from our citizens that is being discussed today. And this is particularly unclear as to who to print, who to sell to, and how to apply to the state. Maybe the people who work at the Census Office will have to work long hours beyond these piles. In this sense, I believe that the law should be more studyable and in a more practical way that we would all like to have our hearts set on it. As you know, I'm a slap MP, dear friends. In the short time we had, before the two elections, our Prime Minister came to our province and made many promises to the Slapman. I want you to take a good look at these, my dear friends. [[Photos shown by the preacher]] These were also brought up in the local press in Tokat. The airport and the word of the express train are our Prime Minister's. And there's going to be an airport, and there's going to be a fast train.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0263par0426	You don't want it or not?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0264par0427	Don't do it?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0262par0428	Again, today's Minister of Transport made promises on his visits to Tokat.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0265par0429	AK PARTY will if they promise.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0262par0430	And Davutoglu's mother-in-law, Tokatlı, is related. Your brother-in-law's word. He said, Mr. Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0266par0431	We'll do it, we'll do it, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0262par0432	But, my friends, we want to trust our Prime Minister. And look, our Prime Minister's word was a three-month promise. We, the Slappers, follow that statement.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0267par0433	Look, people did, and trust me.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0268par0434	Congressmans, let's hear it, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0262par0435	The word is out, but the slaps didn't fly from the airport, folks. So there's no minister of the county without a minister. The slap became the immigration champion in Turkey. I'm guessing he won't give up this championship with the AKP's power. The people of the faithful Kazova, and Artova, and Zile Plain, and Erbaa, and Niksar, and Kelkit Valley, continue to migrate. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, there's even been a court of law in many counties and cities. He's about thirty-five years old. We have judges and prosecutors in Erbaa, and in Reshadiye. And I repeat, dear friends, the slapper is a follower of these words, and he will continue to be. And I've got a town of precious friends with no double routes to a one-kilometer county.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0269par0439	Thank you, Mr. Durmez.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0270par0440	Is the airport being bought at the grocery store?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0262par0441	Sir?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0270par0442	Is the airport being bought at the grocery store?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0262par0443	No, guys. The slap will follow, and we'll follow. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit04spe0271par0447	Thank you, Mr. Durmez. I submit the motions to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who do not accept... the 15th article has been accepted. I'm taking a break from the merger until 8:40.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0271par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 60. The commission is in place. The government is in place. We stayed in the motion on the 16th article. There are three motions on the 16th article; I read the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the identity card of the Republic of Turkey shall be changed to the identity card (also referred to in Article 16 of Article 16 of the Law Bill for Change in some Laws). Mehmet Erdoğan Kamil Aydın Mehmet Günal Erhan Master Kadir Koçdemir Erkan Haberal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of some Laws and Laws shall be made to some Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Saziya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Deputy Chair of Justice and Development Party Chair Çanakkale and 35 members of the İstanbulkkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and that the Law Proposal for Making Changes in some Laws shall be changed in the following way. Cetin Osman Budak Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamaylıgil Mahmut Tanal Tule Karbük Yakup Akkaya Article 16-5490 has been added to the following temporary clause. (Temporary 6- The regulation and distribution of population wallets is based on the following procedures and foundations, up to 31/12/2016. A) Population wallets are printed by the Finance Ministry in accordance with the figure, size and example identified by the Ministry, and sent to accounting officials to meet the needs of the population managers, and to the Foreign Ministry to meet the needs of foreign diplomatic missions. B) In view of the need of the Local Register Offices, the women and men's population wallets have charged three thousand per cent per person, and will be paid in advance in order to be paid later, in order to be paid in three thousand units. The price of valuable paper is not taken from the population wallets, which will be issued during the legal period of birth notifications. The return of the population wallets due to miswriting is deducted from the price of valuable paper. ==Demographics==C) The birth certificate is given to persons within the country by the Local Register Offices and foreign representatives abroad, as well as by the guardians, guardians of minors, or legal guardians, as well as by the Ministry of the 17th Article of this Law, which is specified by those in charge of the declaration. Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 16th article of the current 60 rows of the Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Ali Cano Front Garo Paylan Wish Ocalan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0272par0036	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0271par0037	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0273par0038	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0271par0039	About the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with, Coral Danış Beştaş, Adana MP. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0274par0043	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I want to read you an article as long as I can. The title of the article is a strange, difficult word to read, the name of a song by Miriam Makeba. At a concert in South Africa, also known as Anafika, the South African singer,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, a,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Hurry up, Mom! It means "mom"! Hurry up, Mom, please don't get caught! The song we listened to 50 years ago is now playing again. This time it's the Kurdish cry of blacks who are crushed by the rage and hatred of white people. Children who see Panzers, armored careers, tanks, cannons coming in Kurdish neighborhoods in what the Turks call southeast, Kurds, Kurds. ▪ Run! They'll shoot you! The mothers' screams are no different than the children's screams. They're screaming, "Run away, my children! They're going to kill you!" Grandparents trying to get their grandkids to the hospital are falling down with bullets in their lungs. Pregnant women's bodies are lying on the streets, children's bodies are hiding in refrigerators because there's no room in the morgues. Why don't you become Turkish? Is Turkey just a homework assignment for Kurds? Will the Turks not be Turkish? Isn't that the land of Turkey? Why aren't you interested in five-month-old babies, three-year-olds, young boys, pregnant women, old grandparents? Why don't you move a muscle to protect them? Why do you think it's natural for Turks to kill Kurds? Why are you so unconscionable and blind to the right to reproach yourself when Kurdish babies are dying? Why do you think Turkey is just the West and call on Kurds to join Turkey? You should be Turkish first.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0275par0047	Ma'am, you don't believe yourself, do you?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0274par0048	▪ You take care of the people who died in this land. Feel the pain of the babies being shot in the eye. You won't even mind them, will you? They're Kurds. His death is of no consequence to you, since the baby that was born three months ago has written on its forehead, it doesn't matter that the baby is the target of a Turkish sniper. He's got his killable label on his chest the moment he's born, isn't he? Shoot him, kill him, and reproach him, and attack the man who takes care of those children. By erasing the HDP because it cannot become Turkish, you eliminate the most important opportunity for peace. HDP was the only and most important actor who could politically open the road to peace for the entire country. You took the HDP into scissors, broke its power so the AKP could win the second election, but what you broke was the possibility of peace. It is the only party that can gather Turkey and Kurdish people around the possibility of peace and democracy, HDP. You didn't want him to be Turkish, you wanted him to be Turkish. The solution was not for his Turkification, but for his common desire for peace and democracy without losing his Kurdish identity. You've destroyed the possibility of Turkey for Turkey for the entire country because you can't pass from Turkic to Turkey, you don't want to gather everyone around a common goal, you see your interests in hostility. Who isn't Turkish? You're the ones who haven't become Turkish! You're the ones who support death, violence, war. Kurdish children dig ditchs in the neighborhoods. Oh, okay, then, let's go shoot the babies. NATO's 2nd largest army is fighting children 14, 15, 16 years old in Kurdish neighborhoods. Does it seem so normal for an army to fight children? Don't you ever wonder who the warriors were, how old they were? They're kids. They dig moats, they form an organization, they fight even if they are children.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0276par0053	That's right, Kanas is just enough kids to have your chest removed so you can use your gun!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0274par0054	Doesn't a community ever wonder why their own children have to dig trenches and turn into armed warriors? The summer continues. The people who read the article... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...Ahmet knows that it belongs to Altan. But since I'm out of time...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0277par0058	We thought it was Bese Hozat, but it's a similar name.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0274par0059	That doesn't suit you, Mr. Markar, so I don't know where you get the right to compare.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0278par0060	Don't talk to me. Okay, you've read it. Come on.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0279par0061	Ms. Meral, that doesn't suit you at all.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0280par0062	You're betraying me in such a serious way.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0281par0063	Let him tell the story of Chenar. Let him tell you about the babies who died in Chinar.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0282par0064	I shared an article. Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0283par0068	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0284par0070	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit05spe0283par0071	The motion has been called for a sufficient number of decisions. Therefore, I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All in favor... Those who don't... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0283par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 16 of Law Bill 60, the vote of Adana MP Coral Danış Beştaş and his friends was not sufficient. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who don't accept... there is enough of a decision, there is not enough of it. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 60. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of some Laws and Laws shall be made to some Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Saziya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Deputy Chair of Justice and Development Party Chair Çanakkale and 35 members of the İstanbulkkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and that the Law Proposal for Making Changes in some Laws shall be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Cetin Osman Budak (Antalia) and his friends Article 16-5490 has been added to the following temporary clause. The regulation and distribution of birth certificates is based on the following procedures and foundations until 31/12/2016. A) Population wallets are printed by the Finance Ministry in accordance with the figure, size and example identified by the Ministry, and sent to accounting officials to meet the needs of the population managers, and to the Foreign Ministry to meet the needs of foreign diplomatic missions. B) In view of the need of the Local Register Offices, the women and men's population wallets have charged three thousand per cent per person, and will be paid in advance in order to be paid later, in order to be paid in three thousand units. The price of valuable paper is not taken from the population wallets, which will be issued during the legal period of birth notifications. The return of the population wallets due to miswriting is deducted from the price of valuable paper. ==Demographics==C) The birth certificate is given to persons within the country by the Local Register Offices and foreign representatives abroad, as well as to those who have registered guardians, guardians of minors, guardians or legal guardians, and those in charge of the 17th Article of this Law. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0285par0018	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0283par0019	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0286par0020	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0283par0021	Cetin Osman Buddhak, Antalya MP for the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Budak. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0287par0025	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 16 of Bill 60. I salute you. Dear friends, there are serious problems in every area in Turkey: justice, democracy, freedoms, education, economics, foreign policy, terrorism, culture, art. We can extend the list further. A country in which there is a serious decline in law, democracy and freedom, poverty and a growing injustice in the distribution of income, where millions of young people are unemployed, unemployed, unhappy, and society is polarized by political accounts, worrying about increasing votes, and live bombs are raging. In such an environment, no one can sit at home in peace. The problem is with all of us. The basis of this problem, in my view, is that political morality is rotting, that political morality is not dominant in Turkey. This situation in politics also has a negative effect on society, and it debunks social morality. Turkey is experiencing the pains of this, and the price is very expensive, unfortunately, very expensive. Let's remember the recent events: Thousands of our people were lost in business accidents, in mines. In Soma, alone, 301 lives were destroyed in the coal land in one day. Did he come up with a conscience and say he was in charge of politics? Hundreds of our people, soldiers, professors, journalists' freedom was taken from them, and they were kept in solitary confinement for years in Silivri. Why? It's the conspiracy. Why? False evidence. Did he come up with a conscience and say he was in charge of politics? The prosecutors and judges of these plots fled abroad with luggage, escaped justice, were kidnapped. Did he come up with a conscience and say he was in charge of politics? Pool media was established, journalists were threatened, beaten, nose broken, newspaper buildings stoned. Thousands of people's phones have been tapped, blackmailed, opposition politicians have been bugged, plugged, framed. Did he come up with a conscience and say he was in charge of politics? Our women were victims of the most violent murders in the middle of the street, thousands of women killed. Let her give birth to a woman who has been raped, and the state will take care of her. Stupid answers to immoral, irrational questions. Did he come up with a conscience and say he was in charge of politics? Turkey has sunk into the terror of the Middle East, from zero problems to zero neighbours. Turkey's southern border has returned to its inn. Reyhanlı, Cilvegözü, Suruç, Ankara and now Istanbul. In these explosions, nearly 250 people lost their lives, had a conscience, and said, "I am responsible for this." Did he say that? Look, last November, Romanian Prime Minister Victor Ponta resigned after a nightclub fire that killed 32 people in Bucharest, November 4, 2015. Of course, it's possible to extend this list. In South Korea, again, the Prime Minister resigned in such a ferry accident and resigned himself. Is Turkey a happier, freer, peaceful country today? Can everyone go home with a sense of trust? Is she able to send her children to school, to work in peace? Who can say "yes" in their peace of mind? No one can say I'm sorry. It's pointless to talk about democracy without political morality. If the moral rules don't apply, if morality doesn't prevail, there won't be any written rules, nor does it. Unfortunately, Turkey is going through such a phase, such a process. Therefore, the law in Turkey is unfortunately underfoot, so the Constitution and laws are constantly violated, so court decisions, judicial decisions are being matted underfoot, so journalists are threatened with death, and journalists are rotting in prison, so it can be said recklessly that they can enter the university with tanks and TOMA. It's possible to extend this list further, but it's not the way, it can't bring Turkey into a happy, prosperous future. Turkey must quickly turn its face to morality, conscience, mind, science. Dear friends, with these thoughts, I look forward to your support of our motion, all of you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0288par0041	Thank you, Mr. Budak. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the declaration of identity card of the Republic of Turkey, which is included in Article 16 of the Military Law Law Law and the Amendment to some Laws, which is currently in session, shall be changed to the identity card of the Republic of Turkey. Mehmet Erdoğan (Muğla) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0289par0048	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0288par0049	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0290par0050	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0288par0051	About the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with, Mehmet Erdogan, Müğla MP. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0291par0055	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I ask for the mercy of our police, wives, children, and neighbors who were killed in the District of Çınar last night. I condemn those who carried out that treacherous attack with a curse, and my solution will come. I refer to those who watch the PKK until they are able to detonate a one-ton bomb in the belly of Chinar, saying, "Peace be with you." We, the National Movement Party, demand that the declaration that we're discussing be changed to the identity card of the Republic of Turkey, with the motion on the 16th article of the bill, be supported by the Supreme Assembly. In the 24th term, inside the domestic security package, there were issues related to the population in this bag, about the license, the passport being given by population administrations instead of by safety. We also said then that we should not occupy the agenda of parliament by putting these provisions in other complex packages, which make it easier for the citizens; that we should bring them into a separate package, that we should not keep the population general manager here every day, that he should mind his business, and that we would agree on them, and that we should pass them here within a few hours. But of course, all the work of the AKP was rushed, and in that day you withdrew 60 articles in favor of that citizen in order to move the materials of this domestic security package that would quickly oppress the citizens, and now you've put this bag inside the law, mixed in other things, and the Census General has been waiting here for how many days. The rest will be in other bags in the next few days. Don't keep this place busy, bring them here as a separate package and don't bother the High Council about it. Let the citizen's work be resolved at once, and the citizen will be relieved of his burden. Of course, when we discussed the internal security package at the commission, we said that the workload of the Local Register Office would be much higher after these arrangements. In his presentation to the Commission, for example, the Home Secretary has long explained that the driver's license, the passport... along with these biometric data population wallets, 5,000 police will now be free of such unnecessary work and will be involved in security services, which will be done by the National Directorate of Population. Now, we say, first of all, in order for the citizens to not wait in line, for these things to work quickly, the Population General Directorate has 1,500 staff standing idle, release this staff, appoint 1,500 members to these staffs, train them, and prepare them for these services. The second, of course, is that the Local Register Office has to act very quickly in the process. I've got to get my ID at the local register office tomorrow to take the college exam. He's going to do it, he's going to do it, he's going to get married, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, he's got a kid, We need to do this right away. How will the Census Administration be able to raise so much work? You know, there's no more than six months of work paid for public officials who work overtime. With a motion from us in the commission, we agreed that the members of the Local Government's General Directorate, at every centre and rural agency, would be paid by the ministry for more than five times the year and 50 hours a month, according to the procedures and foundations set by the ministry, for five years, over the year. Let's get this done right now, and let's not victimize the population officials we've been burdened with so much work. With these feelings, I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0292par0064	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 16th article is not accepted. There are three motions on the 17th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 17 of the proposed bill, we propose that the following joke be added as the (2)th joke and that other joke numbers be identified accordingly. Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Erkan Haberal Mehmet Parsak Deniz Depboylu Desire Erdem (2) The first joke (b) of the 4th Article of this Law will also be provided as support for the insurance holders, which will be multiplied by $3.33 per day for January and December/ returns of 2016. " Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose amendments to some Laws and Codes of Law (/414) and the interim 68th article, which is envisioned to be replaced in the following manner, and added to the following joke (7) by Deputy Chair of Justice and Justice Party Party Deputy Chair Çanakkale Chair Bkent Turan and 35 MPs, under which Article 17 and 510 of Law Proposal for Changes in some Laws. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Tulips Musa Pine Bihlun Tamaylıgil Ömer Fethi Gürer Seyit Torun "ίn the 4th Article of the Law (a) is an agreement with employers who employ long-term insurance policies; A) A) The total number of premium paydays for the monthly premium and service documents given to the Foundation for the same month of 2015, in addition to the total number of paydays of the insurancees reported under $85 and below, reported in 2016, in the monthly premium and service documents for the current month, B) The total number of days of pay-per-views reported in the first place of employment within the Law in 2016, For January 2016 and December/turns, the amount will be multiplied by $3.33 per day, from the insurance premiums the employers will pay to the Institution, and this amount will be paid by the Treasury. C) Insurers who are subject to b of the 4th article of the Law are also supported by the 3.33 TL Treasury. (8) The provisions of this clause are also applied in accordance with the status of the chests under Article 506. Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 17th article of the current 60 rows of the Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Wish Ocalan Alican Front Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0293par0101	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0292par0102	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0294par0103	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0292par0104	Erol Dora, Mardin MP for the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Dora. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0295par0108	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on Article 17 of Law Bill 60. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my speech, I wish all citizens who lost their lives in Chinar, God's mercy, condolences to all their relatives, and immediate healing for the wounded, and I wish to express my regrets. I hope this is the last time that any of our citizens, children or women, will ever face such events again. Dear lawmakers, it is not possible to accept Parliament's disregard of painful problems by ignoring what is going on in the country, not to allow it to pass, but rather to spend time on secondary issues. See, just yesterday, the Human Rights Association Diyarbakır Branch announced that during curfews imposed between August 16th and January 10th, 170 civilians were killed, including 29 children, 39 women, 102 men. These figures are not included in six of our citizens who lost their lives last night in the attack in Çınar district, including Suruç, Ankara and our people who died in the brutal massacres in Sultanahmet. Dear lawmakers are not limited to deaths, their settlements are in ruins, people are forced to leave their homes. More importantly, the right to nutrition and health care, which are the most basic needs of citizens, has been eliminated. We also think that under conflict, under gunshots, it doesn't take a psychologist to predict the traumas that children have suffered and that they won't be affected for a long time. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, after 30 years of low-density war, the solution and peace process we've been trying to experience has given our entire country a comfortable breath. One of the most important data of this process was hope that we could solve our problems through dialogue, through negotiation. With action from here, what we need most in the process is negotiations, democratic politics, and finally a lasting peace. In this context, we want to stress that we also care about the efforts of intellectuals, academics, artists, who have recently begun and are still going on. Of course, in a democratic country, people have the freedom to express their views individually and collectively according to the 26th article of our Constitution. There may also be opinions that we disagree with, as well as clear explanations of the European Court of Human Rights, may even be traumatic views, but we believe that we should accept them reasonably, unless they praise violence, lead to violence. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the censorship of critical thinking on the basis of national security, and the beginning of it becoming a norm, show that we all have every reason to defend freedom of the press and academic freedom. The union of censorship and military control is one of the greatest dangers to democracy. The branding of the critical debate environment as treason is an untenable tactic of ancient state traditions. Dear lawmakers, our country is multicultural, and as you know in this geography, very different ethnic groups and peoples have lived and lived through the historic process. So I invite you all, all political parties and all our citizens, to think rationally. This war is a dead end, it can make us Syrian at any moment. For him, I immediately call on all political parties and 550 of our representatives to take responsibility and return to the process of democratic peace and resolution and to address our problems with dialogue, negotiations and democratic politics, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0296par0116	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 60-line Military Law and the amendment to some Laws and Laws Acts (1/414) and the amendment of the Interim Article 68th Article, which was envisioned to be changed to Article 5510 (with Article 17) and to the following article (1), and to the following article (7), we propose that the following joke be added to the following article and that 35 MPs and 35 MPs be added to the following joke, according to the accompanying joke. With all due respect. Omar Fethi Gürer (Niğde) and his friends ===Episode 4===The fourth article of the Law (a) is part of the first article (a) of the employer who employs long-term insurance holders; A) A) The total number of premium paydays for the monthly premium and service documents given to the Foundation for the same month of 2015, in addition to the total number of paydays of the insurancees reported under $85 and below, reported in 2016, in the monthly premium and service documents for the current month, B) The total number of days of pay-per-views reported in the first place of employment within the Law in 2016, For January 2016 and December/turns, the amount will be multiplied by $3.33 per day, from the insurance premiums the employers will pay to the Institution, and this amount will be paid by the Treasury. C) Insurers who are subject to b of the 4th article of the Law are also supported by the 3.33 TL Treasury. (8) The provisions of this clause are also applied in accordance with the status of the chests under Article 506. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0297par0130	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0296par0131	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0298par0132	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0296par0133	Omer Fethi Gürer, Nüğde MP of the Commission and the government disagreed on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Gürer. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0299par0137	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. In the current bill, 100 liras per company that operates, not up to 1,300 lira, but is paid by the Treasury, for the insurance premiums paid by the employers. In this article, the tradesman is forgotten. In accordance with the proposal (c) of the People's Party of the Republic (b), the insurance holders, who are subject to Article 4 of the Law (b), also benefit from the Treasury's support on this clause. It is intended that the tradesman should also benefit from the law by adding the clause. Precious lawmakers have been declared to be gross $1,647, but the minimum wage is not $1,300, as stated in the Official Gazette, on 31/12/2015. The statements made by adding minimum income reduction to the net minimum wage are misleading. The net minimum wage is $1,177. An increase of 29 per cent by the commission's decision may appear to be a very large amount, given the proportional rate. This may be true in terms of approaches that assess Turkey's economy with a low-paying and simple labour force cost account. However, when we consider this minimum wage based on the state of the Turkish economy, it is another reality that is far below what should be. With the latest increase, Turkey has risen from 500 to 1,000 euros in the European Union to the bottom level of the 2nd group. When we look at the countries in this group, we see Portugal, Greece, Malta, Spain and Slovenia. Turkey's place isn't here, it shouldn't be. The amount of the fee alone is not important, nor is it meaningful. The actual price needs to be looked at for the power to buy. If 60 per cent of workers, almost all officers in one country, 70 per cent are spent only on rent and food, then the workers of this country are poor. If most of a country's citizens can save money by making mandatory expenses, then we can talk about prosperity and enrichment in that country. Unfortunately, the essence of economic policies that have been implemented for many years has been based on cheap labor, and workers and workers carrying Turkey's burden have been condemned to poverty. Although today's government presented the minimum wage increase as a success table, it is also misleading. The government did not make that decision of its own accord. The main factor in increasing minimum wage is the exit of the Republican People's Party by calculating both employees and employers. Reactions to the number announced by the Republican People's Party on minimum wage are in memory. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has a serious cost problem. The most important item of this cost is the heavy tax burden, which should be lightened. In response, the tax base must be expanded, not just for employers, but for all our citizens. However, the government is also misunderstanding and implementing it. Expansion of indirect taxes is not an extension of the tax base on taxes. If the tax system improves and the loads are lightened, costs will be reduced, as will citizens and workers' buying power will increase. In contrast, growing, improving, enriching, and prospering will not diminish the country's economy. Turkey has a problem with the distribution of revenues. Turkey has a problem with injustice in a tax system. Turkey has problems with non-organised workers without collective contract of employment. Turkey has a problem with unemployment. Turkey has an industrialization problem. Turkey has a human right to have a life problem. In the face of all these problems, it's just the opening and creating of public land. In Turkey, economic and political policies are wronged, not the rights given to workers, civil servants, but the economic and political policies that disrupt economic and social balances. For our country's integrity, unity, brotherhood, it is essential for everyone to understand each other, listen to each other, to form a common solution that is indispensable and essential to our future. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0300par0145	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 17 of the proposed bill, we propose that the following joke be added as the (2)th joke and that other joke numbers be identified accordingly. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends (2) The first joke of the 4th Article of this Law (b) will be provided as support for the insurance holders, as well as the result of the product of $3.33 per day for January and December/ returns of 2016." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0301par0154	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0300par0155	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0302par0156	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0300par0157	Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, deputy of Kahramanmarash on the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Tor. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0303par0161	I have made a pledge to speak for the National Movement Party on the 17th article of Law Bill 60. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the first sentence of the general reason for the proposed bill is exactly the same; the level of democracy and prosperity of our country has increased with reforms on constitutional, legal and institutional levels in recent years. When our country's democratic level has increased, it's a matter of discussion, I'm passing that. However, in the last 17 years of AKP power, the country's prosperity level has not increased significantly, but it is true. That's not what I'm saying, that's what the numbers say. See, our national income per unit of 2013 is around $10,800, and our national income per unit of 2014 is around $10,400, and that's around $9,286 in 2015. According to 2013, the loss of prosperity in 2015 is around 1,600 dollars, and the trend is in decline. For the reasons that I will tell you below, the situation of the BUG-KUR people in particular will worsen, and the loss of prosperity will increase. It would be more appropriate, more appropriate, to describe this bill, not as the bill of law, but as the bill in terms of the BUG-KUR. Dear lawmakers, of course, isn't there something growing in the country? There is. What is it? There's terror, can you say there isn't? Can you ignore the martyrs who were buried every day, the curfews that have been imposed for days, mass murder? Can you say that we are never responsible for the terrorist coming to this point? There's unemployment, can we say no. There's a fact that yesterday's headscarf hunting took place today. Look, there are rights violations. Isn't it right for me to give it to the people? Is it not the right to not rule with justice? Is it justice or not right to submit public institutions to those who do not deserve them in any way? Isn't there a waste? Isn't waste illegal? Who is he that feareth when he sayeth not that the waste is forbidden? Isn't it the right of the court not to enforce the verdicts? We sincerely believe that God's justice will not fail, as it has always been. As for those who devour the Truth and do not judge with justice, they will soon pay their due in the sight of God. Dear lawmakers, we, the National Movement Party, have always been there for the benefit of the nation. However, when this arrangement is made, all parts of society must be looked after, but when we look at it, it lacks equality, it is not fair. If you do so, the society will not find peace because of these unfair and unfair provisions. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have read and studied the bill carefully. As part of my residency, I've found negatives involving millions in total of 11 articles that I'm not a stranger to. I'd like to explain each and every one of them separately, but I can't explain it in my five minutes of conversation. The topics related to 11 articles are: The insurance holders under the BUG-KUR are not taking advantage of the treasury support. 14 percent of society is only active. The premium charge rate is increasing by 30 percent. No treasure support will be provided for optional insurance. In that case, the housewife and others will be victims. An arrangement has not been made to ease the premium burden of debtors. Those who pay the general health insurance premiums themselves will not benefit from the support of the treasury. No arrangement has been made at workplaces to relieve the payload of employers who employ apprentices and interns. Contractors taking workers abroad to work under 5510/5-g will not be able to benefit from the treasury support. No arrangement has been made to relieve the premium burden of employers who pay premiums from the ceiling. Employers who increased the number of employees in 2016 will not be able to benefit from treasury support because of their additional employment. The incentive system is not clear. The severance will increase, there will be victimization. The administrative fines won't be deterred, they'll serve as an act of destruction. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0304par0179	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Article 17 is accepted. There are three motions on the 18th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the day after the last day, which follows the last day, in Article 18 of Law Bill 60, will be changed to the day following the last day. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Alican Önlü Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Garo Paylan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 18 to the amendment of some Laws and Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Saliya Sadi Bilgiç and Vice President of Justice and Development Party Group Chair Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; some Laws shall be made into amendments. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamaylıgil Tulip Yakup Akkaya Aykut Erdoğdu Mahmut Tanal The term "seven days" in the 6th joke of Article 1 of the Law on Fiscal Holiday Relations of 5604, dated 18/3/2007, "seven days," "seven days," "five days" in the form of the seventh day since the last day," as in the seventh joke, "Game Administrations" as a last day, "special consumption tax, bank and insurance benefits tax, special communication tax, luck games tax and customs administrations." Now, I'm going to have the motion that I'm going to read, and I'm going to have it read and processed, in violation of the clause. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 18 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Günal Erhan Usta Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir MADDE 18- 15/3/2007's statement of "seven days" in the sixth joke of Article 1 of the Law on Fiscal Holiday Relations No. 5604 has been changed to "Second Day" in the form of "seventh day" in the seventh joke, "Game Administrations" in its "special consumption tax, bank and insurance treatment tax, special communication tax, luck games tax, and customs administrations." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0305par0210	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0304par0211	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0306par0212	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0304par0213	Yusef Halaçoglu has asked for a statement about a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0307par0217	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I begin my words, I salute you all. Dear friends, in fact, this is the legislature and we're making laws. We've all taken a vow of legislature, sworn by the Constitution, on our honor and honor, to remain faithful. So, this means that we swore that we would act according to all laws imposed on the Constitution, that we would remain faithful, that we would not violate the Constitution, and that we would take an oath of honor and honor, our most precious possession. If so, we need to immediately consider the wrong assessments of the laws, not only our parties, but Turkey, and we need to correct them. Now, it certainly has a great responsibility on us if we do not make a sound against our oaths of honor and honor, that neither the Constitution nor the Statement Act 5442 were used here. We need to take this seriously. On the other hand, it is also contrary to the Constitution to speak of their suffering by targeting a certain group living in Turkey alone as we speak here. If you're just talking about the death of Kurdish babies, and you're not talking about the death of Turkish babies, and you're not complaining about terrorist organizations in Turkey because it's not a constitutional institution, if you're just talking about the cruelty of state forces, then you're acting against the Constitution again. Because we all watch that the legitimate powers of the Republic of Turkey have never acted in other cities. Why doesn't Antalya make the same move as in Sur? Why does the Turkish Republic's security forces not do it in another province, but do it in Sur, and do it in Cizre, and do it in Silopi? Why doesn't anyone say that they're doing this in exchange for the security forces they're supposed to be acting cruelly here? Those who have guns in their hands, who keep people there, who kill people, who kill babies, which, you know, in international law, if you kill people without a target, if you detonate a bomb, it's a crime of humanity. If you don't curse those who commit it in the course of human crime, and you don't desecrate them in some way, and you blame the security forces of Turkey -- the Republic of Turkey, which you're sworn to -- then there is a mistake here, and if you just call them Kurdish provinces in Turkey, or if you call them Kurdish children, babies, then you're discrimination. Whoever he is, he can be Kurd, he can be Turkish, or he can be anything, and whoever is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, whoever is being killed, whoever is being killed, we must oppose him. Those who, out of nowhere, take weapons, invade cities, keep their holes quiet, hold them there and do their legitimate duty must be opposed to the people on the other side, and the terrorists with guns in their hands. We express specifically that our problem and our cause as Turkey is never our innocent citizens in Turkey, whether it's Kurdish or Turkish. Our problem is the PKK, the terrorists, but whoever takes them seriously by making them look like guerrillas or civil wars, if they take sides, they probably have responsibilities at this level. Of course, I would also like to state the responsibilities of those who have died. Because you can't tell the governors that it's not their fault that they're armed and they've planted bombs when we meet. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0308par0225	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0309par0226	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0308par0227	Hold on a second, I'll make the motion, Mr. Baluken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Baluken, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0310par0230	During his speech, Mr. Orator made a mockery of our group, saying, "Those who did not oppose the deaths on the other side of Turkey are not opposed to the deaths on the other side of Turkey."
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0311par0231	No, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0312par0232	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0311par0233	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0313par0234	One moment, Mr. Halaçoglu, I listened to your speech, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0314par0235	He may not use the name of the party, but at the end of his speech, he teased us by making statements that left our party under suspicion.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0315par0236	He addressed terrorists.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0313par0237	Mr. Baluken, I listened to Mr. Halaçoglu, but the party didn't mention his name. Do you consider all this to be for HDP?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0314par0238	Yeah, yeah, we're calling it a tease, yeah.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0313par0239	Here you go, sir. I'll give you two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0316par0241	I wasn't teasing you, Mr. President. I'm not picking on you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0313par0242	Mr. Halaçoglu, you haven't mentioned the name of the party, and I haven't heard anything like this, but if Mr. Baluken is considering what you're saying for HDP, I promise him for that reason, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0317par0243	Mr. President, you didn't promise the deputy leader here yesterday!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0318par0246	What are we discussing about this? The MPs here have been sworn in by the Constitution. They discriminate between infant deaths. He clearly teased me, so what are we discussing?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0313par0247	Mr. Baluken, please, I promised you two minutes, sir. Please complete your promises in a manner that will not be challenged by a new taunt, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0318par0249	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. And in the last legislature, we had a balance sheet for the work we had done as Parliament. 70 per cent of the work we've done has been about basic education, health care, transportation, freedom of faith of the peoples of Turkey, women's freedom, ecology. 30 percent of our work was related to the Kurdish issue. However, in terms of the process that we're going through today, especially since there is a ban on going out on the street in areas where the Kurds live, we naturally address the problems that happen there every time we come to the stand. We are never turning our backs on the rights violations of the security forces on the other side of Turkey. In Eskişehir, Ali İsmail Korkmaz was murdered, while Ethem Sarısüluk was killed in Ankara, Berkin Elvan in İstanbul, Abdullah in Hatay.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0319par0251	Yasin Bör...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0320par0252	Yasin Börür in Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0321par0253	Yasin Bör...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0322par0254	Yasin Bör...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0323par0255	The children who were killed in Chinar...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0324par0257	Congressmans, I'd like to invite you to remain calm, please...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0325par0258	You are the ones who fled from the study of Yasin Börür, not us. Let's investigate. We have made a motion to investigate Yasin Börür, and you flee. So, wherever there's a right violation in this country, wherever there's a violation of human rights by the security forces, we're going to keep saying it here, we're going to continue. It's never about us to even think otherwise. On the other hand, let no one attempt to set up a framework for us by bringing the existing Constitution, a constitution of coups, as if it were such a holy book.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0326par0260	You took an oath, you swore your sanctity.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0327par0261	You took an oath according to him.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0325par0262	You may think of it as a holy book, but we think that the constitution of the coup is designed with a militant, fascist, oppressive, and illegal understanding, and we think it should be changed.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0327par0263	Then don't come here.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0328par0264	He swore on his honor and honor.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0327par0265	Mr. President, according to what constitution do you serve there?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0329par0266	And we'll keep saying that from this stand.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0330par0268	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0331par0269	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0330par0270	Mr. Akçay, I'm listening, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0331par0271	Mr. President, during yesterday's talks, during the negotiations, the Republican People's Party orator was publicly and twice taunted by the mention of our party's name from the stand, and I asked for word of this taunt. You didn't make that promise. Now, in Mr. Halaçoglu's speech, you have promised that even though no party's name has been mentioned, Mr. Baluken will address it as a taunt. You did it right, so why did you give it to me? However, yesterday, you had to promise to be bullied by the Republican People's Party in the face of open bullying. I suggest you take a look at this situation. Secondly, of course, we'd like a word, sir, for the taunting of the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0330par0273	Mr. Akçay, I'll make this statement first. During yesterday's talks, I didn't see any bullying against the National Movement Party Group. In the speech of Mr. Halaçoğlu, the Democratic Party of Peoples did not mention the name.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0332par0275	It's passed by the PKK.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0330par0276	However, Mr. Baluken took the content of the speech as a taunt to his party group.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0333par0278	He teased us because we called them Kurdish provinces. Check the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0334par0279	Well, that's what we figured, okay?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0330par0280	Just a second, sir, let me finish. I wouldn't have made a promise to Mr. Halaçoglu: I said this sentence: Mr. Baluken, Mr. Halaçoğlu's speech did not mention the name of the Democratic Party of Peoples (HDP). If you had said it, I would not have made a promise to HDP.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0334par0282	He didn't use a party name.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0330par0283	But if the People's Democratic Party received that content as a taunt against its own statements, I have to promise it within Article 69. I made that promise, too.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0335par0284	I'm not saying why did you promise, sir?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0330par0285	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0335par0286	Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu will speak.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0330par0287	Mr. Halaçoglu, here you are, sir. And I give you my word under Article 69. Your time is two minutes. Please make your statement in a manner that does not challenge a new taunt. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0336par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. I never picked on anyone. I'm just talking about the Constitution and the law. I'm saying it again. Now, here, if there's a problem in Turkey, the PKK is in charge of this problem. I guess I don't say it like that, but everybody knows it's the way it is. If there is a PKK, then all parties should be able to say "Get out of Turkey" if they want order in it and Turkey. If he can say that, then he'll be fine, but if he can't say it, then we're living here. But that's for all to know that a five-month-old baby was killed by a bomb that went off yesterday, even today in Çınar County. Ecrin, a 1 - year - old, must know that he is dead. Once again, the 5 - year - old faithful Efe must know that he is dead. Aren't they real? Is that supposed to be taunting anyone? That's what I said. We can't just show up on the faceline and say we're against it, we're against it. If you're brave, if you're really against it, we're against the PKK. Let him out and get out of Turkey. If you can say that, you got it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0337par0297	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu... The motion...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0338par0299	Mr. President, for the record...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0337par0300	One second, sir, one second...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0339par0301	Sit down!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0337par0303	Congressmans, one moment.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0340par0304	You sit down, the group vice president wants a word.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0337par0305	No, Mr. Baluken, please, I beg you, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0340par0306	Mr. President, what does that mean to a group of vice presidents instead of sitting down?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0337par0307	Congressmans, please let me put the motion to the vote first.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0340par0308	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0337par0309	I'll listen to you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0341par0315	Mr. President, the frame we discussed on the stand is very clear. At the beginning of today's session on the attack in Çınar, we expressed our thoughts on behalf of the People's Democratic Party as Deputy Group President. If Mr. Halaçoglu didn't get a chance to listen in on this, he could take a look at what we're saying from the transcripts. We've said so many times that we feel the pain of all the deaths in this country, regardless of the identity of the deceased and the killer, and that it must end quickly. Other than that, we've never accepted as the People's Democratic Party, and we'll never accept it after that.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0337par0316	Thank you, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0342par0317	Let's curse the cause, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0341par0318	Let's curse him. We'll curse, of course, curse whoever caused it.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0343par0320	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 18 of the Law Against some Laws and Laws Laws (/414) and Isparta MP Sadi Bilcç and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair and Chair of Justice Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and to the amendment of some Laws. With all due respect. Aykut Erdoğdu (Istanbul) and his friends The term "seven days" in the 6th joke of Article 1 of the Law on Fiscal Holiday Relations of 5604, dated 18/3/2007, "seven days," "seven days," "five days" in the form of the seventh day since the last day," as in the seventh joke, "Game Administrations" as a last day, "special consumption tax, bank and insurance benefits tax, special communication tax, luck games tax and customs administrations." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0344par0327	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0343par0328	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0345par0329	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0343par0330	Anyone else want to talk about a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0346par0331	Motive...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0343par0332	I'm reading the reason: A change is recommended to make the material text in question understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the day after the last day, which follows the last day, in Article 18 of Law Bill 60, will be changed to the day following the last day. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0347par0341	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0343par0342	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0348par0343	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0343par0344	Mr. Fliz Kerestecioğlu, İstanbul MP for the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0349par0348	Mr. President, Congressmans, we're talking about the Military Code, but I'd like to talk to you about some anti-militarian issues. On average, 4,500 people die each year with individual weapons, individual weapons, weapons in our homes. The World Health Organization Anti-violence Program also recommends the first three measures to limit access to firearms. Turkey has over 10 million weapons, and these weapons have increased 10 times in the last ten years. Women are mostly killed with guns in the house, women killed with men's guns, most of which are in the houses. Istanbul, Izmir and Ankara are listed at the top of the cities, which are the most dead. A gun found in the house already means a threat to a woman that could go off at any moment, and it's a pity that thousands of children are actually witnessing the death of those women as well as the death of their mother and sister. In the world, especially after the 9/11 attack on the United States, the scale has always favoured security in policies shaped as security or freedom. But here's the thing: no security policy, no matter how much security these policies favor, is actually able to provide security. As much freedom as there is, security is actually affordable, just like the guns in the house, because they can only be a means of murder, and they can't provide any security weapons that are actually held for safety, but they can be used to kill women or relatives. The Hope Foundation has been trying for years to make sure that September 28th is the day of individual disarmament, and he's working hard to do it, and he's got a very valuable effort. Therefore, I think that individual disarmament is a very important problem in Turkey and the world and is being overlooked or wanted to be overlooked, and I think that we should take measures to do so in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In addition to individual disarmament, there are also people today who boldly, without taking any weapons, express their conscientious denial, resort to civil disobedience, and say, "I will not kill, I will not die, I will not be a soldier of anyone." It's really a matter of courage, because both Turkey and the world don't get much out of anti-militarianism. These conscientious objectors, unfortunately despite the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, explain their conscientious denials on the basis of religious belief, as they are anti-militarian and anti-war because of the lack of legal regulations, due to freedom of conscience, but their rights are not respected. I feel that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must make the necessary arrangements for the recognition of the right to conscientious rejection, just as individual weapons have been terminated, and I think it is our duty. The first conscientious rejection was announced in Turkey in 1989. Before I put an end to my words, I'd like to end it by reminiscing about my friend, Typhoon Gönul, who declared his conscientious rejection in 1989 and lost two years ago. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0350par0360	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 18 is accepted. There are four motions on Article 19: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that the 19th article of the Law Bill, number 60, shall be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Metin Ashınk Ramadan Can Vural Kulucu Fuat Koktaş Abdullah Ozturk Mehmet Demir Orhan Kırcalı Ahmet Eşref Fakibaba Halil Özcan The public share of Article 4 (a) in Article 4 of Law No. 19-3/12/2010 (MADDE 19-3/12/2010), which is directly or indirectly more than 50% of the public share of the Court Law (A), has been changed directly or indirectly, from the public share of the document to the end of the accompanying paragraph. The public share of companies and (b) are directly or indirectly less than 50 per cent, and is subject to independent control under their relevant legislation; companies, the control of their partnerships and their joint partnerships are based on independent audit reports, which are organised according to the relevant legislation and will be sent to the Court. The Court will submit its report based on the independent audit reports presented to it on the information of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Congressmans, since the three motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions, make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the motions of the same nature...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0351par0378	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but before we get into this, Mr. Speaker has to consider this amendment's violation of the Constitution. The 160th article of our Constitution states that there can be no new application in accordance with a legal arrangement -- the subcontractor system -- which belongs to the Parliament -- which is the Court. You need to consider it and assess it in violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0350par0380	Mr. Tanal, the bill proposed by the motion to change has been adopted by the Plan and Budget Commission and has arrived at the General Board and received the number. Political parties have expressed their views on this clause in the commission report. Now, this amendment motion for the clause there is no different from the motion adopted by the commission as a result. As the Presidential Court, we do not have the ability to evaluate a motion given to us in accordance with the Civil Code, as well as in violation of the Constitution, in terms of a clause adopted in the commission.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0351par0382	My dear President, the Parliamentary General Assembly is not a confirmation of the commission. We don't have a missing issue there, or friends who are already a constitutional expert on the commission. This sentence was not sent to the Constitutional Commission.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0350par0383	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0351par0384	Since it hasn't been sent to the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Speaker must consider it.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0350par0385	Mr. Tanal, let me express my opinion. This clause has nothing to do with the Constitutional Commission. This is a subject entirely in the speciality of the Plan and Budget Commission. This is an arrangement for how the Court audit will be conducted in companies whose public share is 50 per cent or less in its capital. Of course, the integrity of this arrangement, its error, will be discussed according to political parties' views.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0351par0387	If you read Article 165...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0350par0388	Now, this discussion can again be renegotiated in the motions given on this basis. Every political party has a motion for this clause, and so does the Republican People's Party. These arguments are being held from the bench again, under discussion, the General Assembly makes a decision, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0351par0389	Sir, if you read Article 165 of the Constitution, perhaps that will change. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0350par0391	Mr. Tanal, Article 165 I can say wrong about the audits of the Supreme Control Board, which means that the provisions 161 and later include budget and certain audit laws and other issues. I don't need to read that material again, Mr. Tanal. I'm reading three motions of the same nature. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that some Law and Law Orders Act No. 60 and amendments be made in accordance with the Law and Law Law Act (1/414) and Isparta MP Satiya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair and Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and that the Law Proposal for Making Changes in Some Laws shall be removed from the draft text of the 19th Amendment. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamaylıgil Tulip Aykut Erdoğdu Mahmut Tanal Yakup Akkaya I'm going to read the signatures of other proposals of the same nature: İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Garo Paylan Alican Önlü Meral Danış Beştaş I'm having the signatures of the other motion read: Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Erkan Haberal Mehmet Parsak Deniz Depboylu Desire Erdem Mustafa Kalaycı İsmail Faruk Aksu Does the Commission participate in the motions?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0352par0413	The last three motions?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0350par0414	Three motions, yes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0352par0415	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0350par0416	Does the government agree with the motions?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0353par0417	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0350par0418	Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı has asked for a statement about the proposals that the Commission and the government did not agree with. Here you go, Mr. Kalay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0354par0422	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As I said in my speech on the department, the Law of the Court has again made an arrangement for escape from control. Court Law No 6085, supported by the Nationalist Movement Party, was issued in 2010, but the AKP's ruling failed to adopt this law. The AKP must have regretted making that law. As if he had waged war against the court, he made repeated attempts to flee from the controls, not to answer, to silence the court. In accordance with the rights of partnership of companies whose public share of capital is less than 50 per cent, the provisions under which the Court shall be issued on November 2, 2011, have been lifted. This provision was cancelled by the Constitutional Court's decree dated April 3, 2013. This time, the regulation was made, dated July 12, 2013, to smuggle companies under 50 per cent of the state's share in the capital with bag number 6495. This arrangement was cancelled by the Constitutional Court's decision dated December 4, 2014. The Constitutional Court's grounds for a cancellation have stated that the Court has removed the authority to control the use of public resources, and therefore the legislative body has damaged the democratic state principle to limit the ability to monitor the administration's budget-related transactions in accordance with the law. Now the public share is less than 50 per cent, and the Stock Exchange is envisioned for companies operating in Istanbul to do so based on independent audit reports on their participation and joint partnerships, while others to be out of control again. According to our constitution, the Court shall have control authority on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This authority cannot be granted independent control, cannot be transferred, cannot be used. Therefore, this arrangement is not in accordance with the Constitutional Court or the Constitutional Court's decision. I'm speaking to my fellow members of the ruling party, whose conscience I trust, particularly: Why is this government insisting on escaping control? Please question him as well. Don't let someone do secret things behind closed doors, don't share in their dark affairs, don't get involved in it. We are sincerely warning you that we expect you to support our motion to remove this clause from the bill. As it is known, the AKP has also launched a coup operation to render the Court completely dysfunctional and ineffective, with bag number 6353, dated July 4, 2012. An arrangement has been made that makes it impossible for the audits to form an audit report, which makes it impossible for the audited administrations to form an independent institution, which makes the Court an independent institution, which makes it a unit for which the independent departments and boards of the Court have to do the report assessment function, which they need to do, from those who do not take part in the audit, to end the independence of control commissions. However, this arrangement was cancelled by the Constitutional Court's decision dated December 27, 2012. His regulations thus far clearly reveal that the AKP government avoids transparency, control and accountability, and is terrified of being audited. Dear friends, why do you think that is? I'll leave it to your appreciation. The Court serves under intense pressure from AKP rule. Before the impact of the trauma caused by Law 6353, which was cancelled by the Constitutional Court, a much heavier law proposal has been proposed in 2013, preventing reports that would not be pleased by the pressure imposed on the Court of Justice in a sense in the coming of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. As a matter of fact, the Court's audit reports are being sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with its contents narrowed and supplemented. The information on public damage identified by court inspectors is not included in the audit reports. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit06spe0355par0433	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0355par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 60. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş, MP of Adana, now demanding the second of the motions in Article 19 of the same nature. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0356par0009	Mr. President, we would like to, of course, make our assessments of the Law of the Court. Just two days ago, there were some serious irregularities that the Court had detected regarding coal relief, and we witnessed what great irregularities were made with reports that the truck had traveled 5 times over 1,700km. We've also submitted questions and research motions to the Council on this. We hope that in the near future, these corruptions will become widely exposed. But I'd like to express my opinion on something else. For a long time, during the legislature after the November 1st elections, as you know, in certain districts of Turkey, the actual war images in its regions, even though there was a real war, are we able to discuss what the Grand National Assembly is discussing, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, how the public thinks, how they feel...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0357par0011	Batman gave me that answer. It's beautiful.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0356par0012	We need to turn around and ask ourselves why we can't discuss things that we really need to discuss here. Because people have voted to send us here to respond to their problems, both economic and social and cultural demands. But we can't talk about these deaths or curfews or Turkey's real agenda, except for the research proposals and other issues that we've brought to parliament's agenda. So there are just a few motions that I'd like to consider so far -- the motion we've submitted about curfews, Suruç massacres, Ankara massacres, Diyarbakır massacres, Diyarbakır massacres, Syrian policy, foreign policy, again, all the motions we've made in prisons, where we've received hundreds of letters every day, right violations, naked searches, serious, severe right violations, again, violence against women, lynching campaign against academics, again, with Sultanahmet There's no freedom of the press. So even though the main channels we're opening are one line of news about what's happening on national channels, we're dealing with a sense of literature that has nothing to do with the truth. With constant different information, with different information, the public is wanted to be guided differently. As if, in Turkey, we solved all the problems, as if the presidential system was missing, now constitutional studies have come to Turkey's agenda. Of course we need the constitution, of course a democratic constitution is the most urgent, the most urgent need. But right now, who's discussing the constitution, who's arguing? Is there a society that can discuss the content of the constitution, the social contract, the principles that should be included in the social contract? Our party's co-Chairs or other officials, the system proposals our lawmakers have made, are being set up to launch a lynching campaign because of their democratically proposed proposals for management systems, and investigations are being launched. How, then, will the public participate in the construction of the constitution if the co-chairs of a party, a political party, the 3 ±th party in parliament cannot propose the constitution? What kind of constitution are we really going to make? In order for the constitution to be established, everyone, all parts of society, women, young people, different cultures, identities, beliefs and languages must be able to discuss their constitutional rights, which will be guaranteed freely. We're living in a monologue right now. With a unilateral push, with a unilateral demand, it's as if people don't die every day, there's no funerals on the street, there's a serious lack of mood in certain parts of Turkey, and we're coming through with the presidential system, and that's how we can't touch Turkey with the agendas created from another place. The people of Turkey, the citizens of Turkey, the demands in Turkey are not being discussed in the way they deserve here, and we all have the responsibility. I want to draw attention to that one more time. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0358par0016	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0359par0017	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0358par0018	I'll call back later, and I'll promise you other motions of the same nature. About the other motion of the same nature, Lale Karbük, the Fellowship of Bursa. Here you go, Mr. Carabinieri. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0360par0023	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 19th amendment of the bill. Now, first, let's think about what we're doing here. What's expressed in the related clause is that in companies with less than 50 percent public partnerships, these companies have companies that are traded in the stock markets, and they also have their partnerships and their joint partnerships that are controlled by entering this clause. Well, how does it say it's to be inspected? It says: "There will come a review from independent control institutions, and these reports sent by independent control institutions will be evaluated, reported and submitted by the Court. " So, let's see, where do we come from? The Supreme Assembly of Turkey has been appointed to the Court to supervise the Supreme Assembly of Turkey. The Court does not have the authority to perform these tasks to an institution or organization other than its own. And then what happened? Let's see. An addition to Article 4 of Court Law No. 6085, dated 3/12/2010, added this joke. I'm not reading this joke right now, but I'm talking about a provision that we're going to make based on an independent audit reports that will be submitted to the Court under the control of the Court, which is also under 50 per cent of the government's control, which is under 50 per cent of the public share, which will be processed in the stock market and under the supervision of companies and their partnerships. This clause was then cancelled by the Constitutional Court in 2014, and see what it says in the Constitutional Court's decision to abort: it eliminates the authority of the Court to control the use of public resources mentioned, thus limiting the ability of the legislative body to oversee the budget-related procedures in accordance with the law, harming the democratic state principle. For reasons stated, the declarations are against the 2nd and 160th amendments of the Constitution, which must be annulled. And again, it says: "The control of the Turkish Assembly of the National Assembly is carried out by the Court. The constitutional requirement for the Court to conduct direct inspection is highlighted in this decision. So, what do we do next? So here we are, and we're doing the same kind of decision that the Constitutional Court cancelled, and we're bringing it back to a state that will be revoked by the Constitutional Court's decision. Again, we are in violation of the 160th article of the Constitution. So why are we doing this? We don't really understand that. Now, given the Constitutional Court's decision in question, it is not really understood by our side that the basis for the arrangement is being made as an annulment of the Constitutional Court. It is thought of by us as a veiled arrangement. We don't understand the fear and panic here. The control of the Court can never be recognized as companies where public partnership is less than 50 per cent or more, and there can be no such dissolution here, because it has been made very clear in article 160. So, what are we supposed to do? What needs to be done is to redesign the situation, which is now added to Article 4 (6085), which the Constitutional Court has cancelled, but I would like to express to you that the arrangement that we're having is against again. So we offered to remove the 19th article from the draft text. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0361par0031	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. I'd like to present a statement to the General Assembly before the three motions are carried out. Mr. Tanal has just brought up some allegations regarding the violation of the Constitution. I made a brief statement to that effect. They repeated the 165th article of the Constitution. By gathering both of them together, I will make a more comprehensive statement, and without taking up too much time: According to Article 38 of the Civil Charter, the commissions are obliged to examine whether the bill and proposals referred to to them are contrary to the text and spirit of the Constitution. As a result of this study, if the commissions decide that the bill or proposal or a clause of it is contrary to the Constitution, that bill will not be discussed. In this bill, the Commission has made this assessment, and in the end, it has sent the bill and the proposal to the General Assembly, which we are now discussing. Again, it is possible to argue that the entire bill was contrary to the Constitution during the General Assembly talks. If such a claim is brought up during talks on all of it, the General Assembly may refuse to accept the adoption of the bill if it sees this claim seriously. Again, if any clause is made a motion against the Constitution, the General Assembly can reject it by agreeing to the motion. It's the General Assembly that decides all this. The Constitution's 165th article organises control over public economic initiatives, which have 50 per cent and more public share in its capital. The item we're talking about regulates the control of companies, institutions with less than 50 per cent of the public share in its capital. Therefore, there is no subject within the scope of Article 165. Now, I'm going to submit to your votes three of the same motions that we've held, but there has been a request for a sufficient number of decisions, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions in the vote. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted, there is enough to decide.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0362par0036	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I don't want to make a big deal out of it, but the decision has passed. Look, he's in charge of doing this audit on the 160th article. He says he can, he can, he doesn't say he can. The meaning of the duty is that the Court must do it himself. He can't do that by authorizing another agency with the subcontractor system, by tasking it. He's on duty. He says he's on duty. I mean, as a result, I'm closing the deal here, but...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0361par0038	Mr. Tanal, I understand perfectly. I don't have the opportunity to make any assessment of the content of the commission text or the content of the motion we're going to discuss now. It is not my duty to assess whether that clause is appropriate; I cannot do it; the General Assembly will do it. Those words of yours have been filed.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0362par0039	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0361par0040	Other than that, I don't see anything that can be done at this stage. Now I'm going to read the other motion, but before I do, I'd like to inform you that what's just been read, I'm going to process now is a motion for a change of motion on the motion of Amassian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı and his friends. The revised motion has been redistributed. I'll reread the revised motion and process it. In this reformed motion, Turkey submits it to the information of the Grand National Assembly. The term for the article has been released into the information of the Turkish Parliament. The sentence for the end of the article has been submitted to the Turkish National Assembly. Now I'm going to read the motion and process it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that the 19th article of the Law Bill, number 60, shall be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends The public share of Article 4 (a) in Article 4 of Law No. 19-3/12/2010 (MADDE 19-3/12/2010), which is directly or indirectly more than 50% of the public share of the Court Law (A), has been changed directly or indirectly, from the public share of the document to the end of the accompanying paragraph. From companies that are directly or indirectly less than 50 per cent and are subject to independent control under their relevant legislation, companies, their partnerships, and their control of their related partnerships are based on independent audit reports, which are organised according to the relevant legislation and will be sent to the Court. The Court will submit its report to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the basis of the independent audit reports presented to it. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0363par0052	We offer your appreciation with the proper opinion.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0361par0053	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0364par0054	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0361par0055	The commission has given its proper opinion, asking for a statement on the government's motion...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0365par0056	Motive...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0361par0057	I'm reading the reason: With the motion, the gap in the first joke (a) following the Constitutional Court's decision to cancel is filled and companies with less than 50% of the added paragraph and the public share are being reorganised in the way of the Court's audit of their participation and their joint partnerships. Given the quality of these companies, the management structure and the functioning of these companies, there is a necessity for the introduction of an audit procedure that differs from the Court's supervision of companies whose public share is more than 50% under their control. For this reason, it is intended to be carried out on the basis of independent audit reports on the basis of the regulation and the control of their partnerships, which are less than 50 per cent of the state's share of companies that will be subject to this provision (a) and (b) of the rules of the law. I submit the motion to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes in accordance with the amendment adopted by the motion: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. Switching to item 20. There are two motions on Article 20; I read the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the Law under Article 20/1/2016 will be replaced with the declaration of January 1, 2016. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that some Law and Law Orders shall be changed in accordance with the Law on Military Law number 60 and some Laws (1/414) and Isparta MP Satiya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair and Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and that the Law Proposal for Changes in some Laws shall be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Mahmut Tanal Bihlun Tamaylıgil Tulip Jakup Akkaya Bulent Self - Ancient Durmaz MADDE 20. - It's the law. A) On the date of its release, the 6th and 17th articles were valid from 1/1/2016, B) Other substances, It'll take effect in the history of publication. Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0366par0082	We can't agree.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0361par0083	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0367par0084	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0361par0085	About the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with, Bkent Öz, Çanakkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Oz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0368par0089	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Since the law we're discussing is prepared with a sense of law that AKP has made a tradition since 2002, we're discussing the sequence of materials that have changed nine different laws with each other very closely. Dear lawmakers, I wish today our country had a picture of all the institutions and rules of democracy, and if we didn't experience the recent sufferings of our country, we could talk about how we could implement a life model that our citizens would not have to worry about the future as they do in civilized countries today. Since the AKP is accustomed to the bag, it has gradually adapted our nation and Parliament from the day it created the ground for our soldiers to put a sack over their heads on 4 July 2003. On July 4th, those who were unable to respond to the fact that the armed forces, which came out of the public's bosom, were forced to fill their own bags on December 17th or 25th during the 4th of July. Dear lawmakers, there are no policies in this bag that cause the bomb to go off in Sultanahmet. There are no camps in our country that start to work up to the marrow of our people, there are no security of our citizens. There are no deaths, no funerals, no martyrs, in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions of our country, ruled by extraordinary conditions. We don't have police officers in this bag who you've been trying to run the state under the terms of the State of Emergency from our various provinces, who you've tried to temporarily deploy from our various provinces, and who you've only reduced to law enforcement in that area without even a spare underwear to change it in our provinces, which you've been treating the citizens of this country in non-human ways, in the same way as you've been treating them in the same way. In this bag, you have no policies that allow terrorist organisations such as ISIS, PKK to act freely; you have no camps and no dissociative approaches that make our young people at universities see each other as enemy camps; you have no mental structure that describes the most basic freedom of expression as treason.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0369par0093	Right.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0368par0094	You don't have the understanding that academics don't tolerate the opinion of the most fundamental issues of our country, and they're investigating the 301st article; you have no credible approach that the person carrying water to your mill is a traitor. In this bag, there are no indirect taxes cut at every step, no farmers left with vegetables and fruit in their garden because of your cheap heroic policies. This bag does not contain Chanakkale, one of the finest agricultural production and tourism areas in the country, but you're trying to poison it with thermal power plants. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you will legalise one more bag here with your numerical majority, which will not be a salve to the public's wound.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0369par0096	Guys, guys.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0368par0097	However, in this one, yes, there is no uncle Mehmet the peasant, no college-educated workers, no odd guruba, no workers, no pensioners, no widows, no orphans. One of our poet's lines -- I regret to say -- is real because of your power: ▪ Some seek freedom with no one With your understanding. Friends, let's give up this understanding, let's join in the struggle for the people's bread, let's find a solution to the issues that will cure the wounds of the people in this Parliament, let's find a cure for the struggle for life and bread of our people. Yes, with these thoughts and feelings, I salute your high council with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0370par0106	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the Law under Article 20/1/2016 will be replaced with the declaration of January 1, 2016. İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0371par0113	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0370par0114	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0372par0115	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0370par0116	İdris Baluken, Diyarbakır MP for the motion that the Commission and the government did not attend. Here you go, Mr. Bauken. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0373par0120	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We've come to the last two articles: the executive and executive clause, which is an arrangement for the administration of the Council of Ministers. Of course, the Council of Ministers is tasked with implementing the laws, only to uphold the laws that are in place and to enforce the laws that exist at the same time. He has no authority to assess and implement arbitrary practices as a form of law, but for a long time, the Council of Ministers has long faced us with a legal arrangement, a legal procedure, by not turning a lot of things that have not been in the law into a written decision. We've been talking about these funerals here for days. There's been a situation with the funerals of young people who have been a citizen of the Republic of Turkey who have died in Rojava for months, and there's been a problem. Normally, according to the existing legal legislation of the Republic of Turkey, the citizens of this country have the right to be buried in their own territory, even if they have lost their lives on other lands. However, the Council of Ministers does not allow the funerals of young people who have lost their lives in Rojava, as a result of an unlawful arrangement and a number of verbal discussions alone. When we talk to the ministers one-on-one, they say that when we ask for a written decision, there is no written decision, but the one at the top -- I don't know what it means -- we talked about it a little bit during the day; when we say, "Is it the Prime Minister or the President," they say, "is it the President?" Now, there's nothing acceptable about that. Last time, while we were discussing this -- I followed on TV, I was upstairs -- Mr. Naci Bostanci reported a reasonable doubt about the arrival of the funerals. So when those funerals arrived, it could be that the images of a criminal element are coming out, or it could be that they're turning into political propaganda material. Yeah, can you think of a reason for that? So you've brought reasonable doubt when you're organizing criminal allegations about living people, and you're missing reasonable doubt about funerals. Is it possible to accept that? If there's a funeral brought in, buried, against the law, against the law, the judicial institutions in this country conduct the investigation process, making judicial decisions about it. Hence, it is not possible to accept it on such grounds. Look, that's the same reason we brought the funeral of St. Güler a few months ago. Currently, there are over 40 funerals waiting in Rojava. For two weeks, parents were buried on that side of the border because they couldn't get it, but families haven't given up on their demands; we want our child's funeral, we want a gravestone, they say. It's a very human request. These concerns you mentioned were delivered to us during our last talks for St. Güler, whose funeral was unburied for fifty-two days, and we discussed the tragedy of his father, who had been waiting there in the morning at the wake of St. Güler's funeral in Rojava for fifty-two days. We said that there would be no problem with these reasons, and that the road to other funerals would have to be opened after what occurred at St. Güler's funeral, and that the ministers and state officials that we were dealing with gave us that kind of information, and that there were numerous intel on the body of St. Güler that night. We took all the necessary precautions, and the funeral was buried without incident. But from then on, not a single funeral has been brought from Rojava. Is there a written Council of Ministers? No. Does the Republic of Turkey have a reason, a basis, according to the existing laws of the Republic of Turkey? No. Then what is this app? As I said, the Council of Ministers is obliged to uphold the law. He can't run arbitrary practices outside the existing law, and he can't run anything except the law. So I'd like to ask that Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, in particular, make an original effort, instead of using the grounds to remove the blame. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0374par0130	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0375par0132	As I was speaking, Mr. Baluken spoke with information that had been translated to him and was definitely mistransferred because he wasn't here.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0376par0133	It wasn't translated, I watched it, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0375par0134	I didn't mention reasonable doubt.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0376par0135	No, you didn't. That's my comment.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0375par0136	I talked about a completely different situation. Therefore, my words are distorted, and I demand words according to 69.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0377par0137	Here you go, Mr. Botanci. I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0375par0142	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, Mr. Baluken is translating. No minister has a statement on top of the hill, on top of the hill, like he wants to or whatever. I guess that's how Mr. Baluken sees it and transmits it. Whatever they're saying, they're saying it together. What I'm saying, Mr. Baluken, is that the identities of the dead fall. The dead speak neither Kurdish nor Turkish. Respect for the dead is a respect everyone must show. People show up here, you show up. That's what you said. These funerals were given without any problems regarding 493 funerals crossing the border, but they were not buried in a human context with respect to the dead, Mr. Baluken, you know very well. They're Kurdish babies killed by Turkish snipers. They're used as the material of a political perception, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0378par0144	We're talking about people fighting ISIS, what's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0375par0145	It was used as an inflammatory object of ethnic identity politics by being led around the streets by cover, by provocative demonstrations.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0379par0146	He fought against ISIS and lost his life against ISIS.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0375par0147	Those dead who couldn't speak were made part of the provocative speech of political ethnic identity politics, and when your friends appeal to me, there are no funerals of 11 people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And they said it wasn't passed because you couldn't promise it wouldn't be done again. My respects.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0380par0152	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0381par0153	During his speech, Mr. Bostanci both twisted my words and presented them to the General Assembly and said the information we gave regarding the Council of Ministers was wrong. He made an open taunt.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0380par0154	I mean, did he give you a different opinion than you suggested, Mr. Bostanci?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0381par0155	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0380par0156	Here you go. Please complete your speech in a manner that does not challenge a new taunt. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0382par0160	Thank you again, Mr. President. I salute you all. Mr. Bostanci, in our sense of ethics, we have no tradition of sharing the contents of a one-on-one conversation or the details of a phone call we've made here, we don't have that kind of morality. So, I can tell you this: more than one member of the Council of Ministers has expressed that their own conscience is not at ease, that there should be no such application for funerals. Here, as I said, let me put it that way, since I consider name-calling to be my own political ethics, morality. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now, on the other hand, these reasons you're talking about are not grounds. I didn't say you've already used the expression "subjective doubt." That's exactly what you've come up with, and we've interpreted it as a reasonable doubt about funerals. So there's no legal reason for saying funerals, there's no moral, religious, human reason for bringing them here. So...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0383par0164	There is reality, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0382par0165	Reality is this: Look, the more funerals you mentioned were allowed while the process of resolving them was still under way. After Kobani didn't fall, after Kobani's resistance triumphed over ISIS, a policy on funerals developed after the solution process was completed. So we say, no matter what happens, funerals can't be part of this policy, no matter what the conjonk out there is.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0383par0166	It's not part of any policy, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0382par0167	We say that we expect you to be sensitive about this. Look, I gave you an example, and I told you that all necessary measures for the funeral of St. Güler are being taken, and that if that funeral passes without incident, we will be permitted to all of them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Despite the lack of incident, there has been no improvement in the concerns you mentioned, but the fact that this shame is still going on is inadmissible. So I'm not talking about this as a matter of polemics, I'm talking about this from here to really get it right. I'd like to express to each member of parliament that we expect a sensitivity in this matter. Thank you again.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0384par0172	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There are two motions on Article 21: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 21 of Article 21 of the Law Against some Laws and Laws Act 60, as well as the amendment of the Laws Act (1/414), and Isparta MP Satiya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Group Group Deputy Chair of Justice and Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and to change Article 21 of the Law Against some Laws. With all due respect. Ancient Durmaz Bihlun Tamaylıgil Tulip Mahmut Tanal Yakup Akkaya Musa Pine MADDE 21 - This law is carried out by the Council of Ministers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "The Council of Ministers conducts its provisions" in Article 21 of Law Bill 60, which is currently in session, shall be changed under the "governments shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers." İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Abdullah Zeydan I'll get the Commission and the government's opinion on my latest motion. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0385par0197	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0384par0198	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0386par0199	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0387par0200	Motive...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0384par0201	I'm reading the reason for the motion that the Commission and the government disagreed: The amendment was intended to provide meaning integrity in the text of matter and clarify the text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 21 of Article 21 of the Law Against some Laws and Laws Act 60, as well as the amendment of the Laws Act (1/414), and Isparta MP Satiya Sadi Bilgiç and Justice and Development Party Group Group Deputy Chair of Justice and Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and 35 MPs; and to change Article 21 of the Law Against some Laws. With all due respect. Levent Gök (Ankara) and his friends MADDE 21 - This law is carried out by the Council of Ministers. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0388par0212	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0384par0213	Government?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0389par0214	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0384par0215	Mr. Levent Gök, Ankara MP. Your time is five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0390par0219	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we are at the end of a legislature study. Later that night, I'm on the stand to express my feelings and thoughts about this life. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, Mr. Ismail Kahraman, has responded to the article written on January 8, 2016 by our Parliament Speaker, and we have submitted our thoughts on the Constitutional Compromise Commission, which was decided to be established in parliament, and our will to join this Commission, and the names of our friends who will serve in this Commission, to our Parliament today. I hope and wish that we will all find the opportunity to make an egalitarian, liberal, democratic constitution that we all have in our hearts, together with the constitution, of course, with many laws and antidemocratic provisions, which are the product of our country's agenda in parallel and the product of coup law. Dear lawmakers, now, when we give and express our will to this Constitutional Commission, of course, we want our country to be governed by rules, so that anarchy is born wherever there is a rule. There will be rules, and everyone will obey the rules, so that democracy can work, everyone can define their position, know their authority, everyone knows their authority in the House, the President's authority, the authority of Parliament, the authority of Parliament. If we can defeat this rulelessness, we can succeed. But, lawmakers, in this legislature study that we're doing today, for example, we've broken a very clear Constitutional decree, which is that all capital that should be controlled by the Court under the Constitution of the 19th Amendment, whether it be more than 50 per cent, or more than 50 per cent, is now in the Court's control over its institutions, now it's completely irregular to try to cross the Constitution with its rule of the 160th Amendment. It's also a serious injury to legislature studies. Of course, we'll take it to the Supreme Court because it's clearly against the Constitution. So it is not possible for Parliament to adopt, make decisions, and carry something that clearly violates the Constitution. When it comes to a phase of indecisive and irregularity, you see, despite the court's decision to stop the execution, the President can say, "I will continue to sit in the palace, I will not recognize the court's decision." When the law starts there, it goes all the way down. And then, if that's the way it started, then everyone's trying to sort themselves out, categorize and classify themselves, and at the end of the day, the Turkish-Kurdish segregation, the Alevi-Sunni segregation, and a purity begins, my dear friends. We strongly deny all of this. Regardless of the origin of 78 million of our people in Turkey, everyone is an equal citizen of the Republic of Turkey. That's how we accept it. A country where everyone can live and express their identity freely, but a citizen's law is adopted by everyone, should be our country. My dear friends, we're going through a very hot day, and we're going through history. We need to be very cool and cool about it, and we all have to figure out what we're really doing. We, the Republican People's Party, want the rules to work in the process to overcome Turkey's obstacles. We want the fundamental rights and freedoms of human rights within the borders of democracy to go further. In this regard, it is up to all of us to put an end to what is happening in our country today. The events of the east and southeast should be on the agenda of the House. The deaths there, the innocent people, the cops, the soldiers, they're all of our people. We're not supposed to be watching this. We're concerned that the trauma caused by these events may spread elsewhere. For this reason, our Assembly must demonstrate an extraordinary sensitivity in this matter, as in all matters, and all efforts to remove this problem from our agenda must be carried out together. I thank you all for listening to me at this hour, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0391par0225	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 21st article is accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Congressmans, I will make a pledge to the two MPs who have demanded the color of the vote before the vote of the entire bill, according to Article 86 of the Interior Charter. Mustafa Şükrü Nazlı, Kütahya MP. Here you go, Mr. Nazli. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0392par0234	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to inform you that the color of my vote will be in favour of all over Bill 60. I salute your high council. From Tuesday until this late night, with this bill, our primary goal is to make arrangements to meet the expectations and demands of our citizens and to ensure social justice in a way that pleases all our citizens. AK PARTY is a national and domestic act of will, consisting of common rhetoric and action. We have always been with our people, with our hearts and our words and our vision, and we will continue to be. In 14 years, we have implemented comprehensive projects and reforms as the EC PARTY, looking for Turkey's needs that have changed and changed in the national and international plan. As an EC PARTY, we are justified and proud of the implementation of projects and reforms that have not been delivered to another party. With this bill that we've discussed today, we're implementing the issues that we've predicted to take place in the 64th government's programme and in the 2016 Action Plan, one by one, in the three-month period, and we've fulfilled our commitments to our nation. From the ability of our citizens abroad to perform military services under easier and more appropriate conditions, we are implementing many regulations with this bill, from the application of ID cards to the addition of biometric data in the family logs, to the regulations in the Military Law, to the support of small and medium-sized businesses affected by minimum wage increases, to the cost increases in the underground coal sector. Mr. President, when we have this talk today, as a Kütahya MP, it has been a beacon of hope for us that a problem that is primarily concerned about our region will be resolved with this bill. So what we're talking about here is the real agenda. As one of our deputies has just expressed, we don't speak imaginary issues, we speak facts, we are now one-to-one, directly dealing with the problems of 78 million, and we are doing our best as a government to solve them, even though we are trying to prevent them and make them difficult. As you all know, Kütahya is an ancient city known for its Chinese, ceramics and porcelain, its historical mansions, poets, fountains, and the remains of ancient civilizations from thousands of years ago, and its thermal spas. Kütahya is not only a city of history, culture, art and tourism, but also a city with rich underground resources that contribute to our country financially. According to MTA data, there are 36 different types of mines at 232 locations in Kütahya. 60 per cent of the Boron mine has 50 per cent of the magnesite production, and the only silver-producing facility in our country is in Kütahya. It is rich in industrial raw materials resources and metallic minerals and has two major plants in Seyitömer and Tunçbilek, with the abundance of geothermal resources and rich lignite reserves. Among the livelihoods of the region's people are facilities that produce in terms of mining and mineral chemicals. From this point of view, this bill is of great importance to many local coal producers in our region and to create employment. In previous years, businesses operating in the underground coal sector have been conditioned on the 41st article of the Labour Law, on increasing annual permits by Article 53, and on the 63rd article, to reduce their working time from 45 minutes to 37 and a half hours, as well as on the 9th article added to the Mining Law in 2014, that the workers' wages in the underground mines should not be less than 2 minimum wage. The increases in the public have been met, but the rise in the private sector has not been met. With this material, the rise of the private sector will solve the problem of local coal producers in our region and the employment will increase. I thank the Prime Minister, our ministers, and our Plan and Budget Commission, all of you, with these feelings, that Bill 60 rows should bring good deeds to our country and our nation.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0393par0246	Thank you, Mr. Nazli. It's Erhan who wants a word against you, the Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Master. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0394par0251	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, honorable MPs, I salute you all. This is the end of another bag. Mr. Prime Minister pledges, we object as opposition, but despite all our objections, nothing but bags. We're in the Plan and Budget Commission, and we're talking about another bag of legislation upstairs -- I'm coming from there now -- right now. I think he'll be here next week. Of course, we're always saying that it's a poor law, that it's causing serious problems. And this last law that we discussed when we talked about the general, we expressed that it contained serious injustices, that it came without good work, and that the things that were not well-worked were lawd here, that it was a quality that delayed problems rather than problem-solving. Of course, we've been involved here, we've been supported, we've been supported by the Commission and the General Assembly. In particular, after the minimum wage was increased, we supported the clause about taking part of the employer's burden so that there would be no loss of employment, and we even tried to expand its scope. Because the social security premiums for the BUG-KUR business and the BUG-KUR farmers and the chiefs have also increased, but no support has been brought to them. Our proposals to support them were also rejected by the ruling group. Now, of course, there has been a grave error here, in this law, specifically in violation of the Constitution, which we must express. One is the support of private mining businesses. It is also positive that there is no loss of employment, but giving unlimited power to the Council of Ministers here is a violation of the Constitution. There had to be a limit here for a while, and there had to be some top-down boundaries. The criteria for how this payment should be paid should also be set. A serious public source will be used, no one knows how to use it. Of course, we made a worse mistake regarding this Law. You know, a previous regulation of the Court's law has taken businesses with less than 50 per cent of public interest out of the Court's control. The Constitutional Court cancelled it because it was against the Constitution. Now, a law is being passed to meet the annulment of the Constitutional Court, but this law clearly violates the Constitution again. Of course, there's no way to figure that out. The Constitutional Court will probably call it off again. And by logic, friends, why are we running away from this audit when it's below 50%? There's no such thing as honest people running from control. There's no economic, economic, financial reason for that. For example, economically speaking, Turkish Airlines, for example, will not be audited after this law is passed, but will remain outside the control of the Court. About the revenue of Turkish Airlines, 2015, at the end of this year, the numbers didn't come out, but from the first nine months, I estimate around 28 to 30 billion liras... Mr. President, there's a lot of buzzing, so I can't focus on my speech.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0395par0259	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker, sir. There's a hum in the living room, please...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0396par0260	Mr. President, you have to pick on friends or say something hard, otherwise they don't need to listen.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0394par0262	We're listening to you very carefully. If you have any ideas, come and talk here, friends, so we're listening to you very carefully.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0397par0264	We don't think it's worth listening to.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0398par0265	You have to pick on me, you have to say something heavy. Disrespectful!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0394par0266	It's worth a lot of listening to, but I think you're limited in your perceptive capacity. Look, I'm talking about important things.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0399par0267	Congressman, Mr. Master...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0394par0268	30 billion liras of Turkish Airlines...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0400par0270	That's your level, Master!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0401par0271	Then you won't disrespect me from there! Sit down, sit down!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0394par0272	Brother, Turkish Airlines has $30 billion. TTK...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0400par0273	That's your level.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0402par0274	Master Erhan, Mr Erhan, insult my brother, he'll listen when he says something heavy.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0403par0275	Mr. Master, one moment, sir. Congressmans, this is the end of the bill, the final speech is being made. Please listen to the preacher in silence. Mr. Master, you should address the General Assembly too, sir. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you please...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0404par0280	Friends, we don't do politics, it's doable. What we're saying is, we're talking about something technical. Of course, you're not used to it. For fighting all the time... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] You'll give me some time, won't you?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0403par0283	I will, Mr. Master, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0404par0284	We're out of control of a company with $30 billion in revenues. For example, in TTK, the Court controls TTK, are friends with a total of 111 times the amount of TTK? So what does it mean when it falls below 50 percent? Why are you taking this out of court control? Is it possible to understand that?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0403par0286	Master, I'll give you two more minutes. Please complete your vows.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0404par0287	There's no way to figure that out. Look, we know the market, we know the economy, we know the economy, we don't want our companies to get hurt. I told you in the Plan and Budget Commission, if the Court audit is a bad thing, people, let's take all of our companies out of court control, so if the Court is doing something bad, but the Court is doing a good thing, and we're being honest, let's have one person explain to me the logic of taking a $30 billion company out of court control. I mean, we're auditing a company that's a hundred and elevenths of its size, it's being audited by the Court, but... like Turkish Airlines -- for example, there are other companies, not just Turkish Airlines -- look, after BOTAS, do you know it's bigger than any other company in our entire CSI system? The total sum of the companies under privatisation is $3.1 billion, there's a lot of companies there, so I'm speaking as a precedent for Turkish Airlines. There can't be any economic grounds for dismantling a company that's 9.2 times that high. And there's nothing to comment on. So, the Constitutional Court has revoked the clause that takes out less than 50 per cent, and now we're taking back those under 50 per cent of it out of court control. There's no point in writing a report based on the independent audit company's report. Independent control firms can't have a public opinion, they can't have a public opinion, he's interested in other matters. And then we say, well, look, we don't even say, well, we're careful. When you say, "It's just as well," you're going to have to write the same thing that he wrote and bring it to this side in some way. Of course, in spite of all that, it's in your discretion that the law doesn't pass. However, we must avoid doing things that violate the Constitution and do not defend the rights of this nation under this sacred dome. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit07spe0405par0293	Thank you, Mr. Master. The negotiations of the bill are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0405par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At a meeting Thursday (14/01/2016) of the advisory council, it has been deemed appropriate for the General Assembly to submit the meeting Friday (January 15th 2016) to the approval of the General Assembly. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Levent Gök Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. No one wants a word on the counseling board proposal. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. The talks of Bill 60 were completed. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and in spite of that help, the members of the voting boards will be delivered to the presidency within three minutes of the scheduled vote. Also, if there are those who are going to vote, I'd like them to vote for which minister, the color of the game, and the ballot bearing its signature with its name and name, in the three-minute period scheduled for the vote again. I'm starting the voting process now. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I declare the outcome of the open vote: The draft bill of the Military Law to change certain Laws and Laws: [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We will begin negotiations with the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Resources, Information and Technology Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place, in accordance with the Kuran Marrakech Agreement, and in accordance with the Agreement on Easing Trade (1/386). Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by the number of 18 rows. I'm going to initiate a commitment on behalf of the groups over the entire bill. The first word is Erhan Master, Samsun MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Master. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0406par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I would like to express my opinion on the Law Bill on the Approvement of the Agreement to Ease Trade with the Marrakech Protocol, which established the World Trade Organization. Now, the start of negotiations with this international agreement is 2004. After the global crisis, countries actually entered into protective approaches. It's nice to make trade easier, but what does that get us, if we're looking at an international agreement. On the contrary, in fact, after 2008, this agreement says to make business easier. After 2008, countries have a tendency to make trade difficult. When we look at our own trade, first of all, are there any analysis of the impact on this agreement? I couldn't get any information on the existence of something like this in this pamphlet, so there was no analysis of any impact. So I think it's a good idea to make an impact analysis assessment in that sense. Now, we're a foreign trade deficit economy. So, in 2011, up to 106 billion dollars -- since 2011 was the highest year, then of course this fell -- we're an economy with an export-import difference. So actually, when you look at it like this, anything that makes trade easier can work against us, and you have to see that first. We're an energy importer economy. A technical argument can be brought in so we can get energy imports out of this range. Even when we took out the energy trade, for example, in 2011, 52 billion dollars went up again, and that's our economy. So in 2015, these numbers are: our trade deficit is 63.1 billion dollars, and we're a $25 billion economy, even if it's excluded from energy. Now, for the next term, the growth of the world's trade volume is not very high, so in the world, trade is no longer as high as it used to be before the global crisis; there is an increase in global trade volume around 4.5%. Of course, the most important thing we have to say here is that in terms of our foreign trade, our foreign trade has increased the dependence on imports. In particular, we have an economy that has become very dependent on imports in the last decade; one of the main reasons is high interest, low currency policy. This policy, which was carried out during the Justice and Development Party, has now become more attractive to bring a lot of things from the outside, even some of the goods that Turkey used to produce, in terms of intermittent entry, now because of this courtship policy, which has made us dependent on imports. Since we are not an economy that produces technology, we are now importing many machines from abroad again. This is another problem, and I'm afraid Turkey didn't get any further. That's the sad part. Agricultural plantations are dropping. In the last ten years, we've seen a decline in agricultural areas that we've planted by 12 percent. This has also resulted in some products, particularly oily plants, being brought from abroad. We already had energy dependency, but it's hard to admit that some of the energy dependency has been reduced, although there have been recent efforts, but so far, there's been nothing done, unfortunately. Thus, Turkey's economy has become a much more dependent economy on imports. So, how does this look in developing countries? Of course, when it becomes dependent on imports, there are some vulnerabilitys that this creates on the economy, and I'm going to mention a little bit about them in a little bit, but as we talk about it all the time, here's Mr. Mehmet Simsek as well. Here's our growth performance when we take China and India out and look at developing countries. Let's take out China and India, or let's take this country outside, let's take this country inside. There's no analysis. If we're going to look at the average of developing countries, or specifically compare us to this country, you're going to say, well, other than that, what's done all over the world is compared to the average of developing countries. In the 1990-2002 period, the Turkish economy averaged a growth closer to developing countries' economies. Of course, growth rates are generally low. Look, I'm taking the average for developing countries -- I mean, I'm taking the 12 years before 2002 -- because I'm taking the next 12 years, honestly, to get the period in the same year -- 3.9 percent, 3.5 percent, we're growing, we're growing below 0.4 points, but we're close to them. In this 2003-2014 period, growth has increased, and it has increased both in our developing countries because there is a different economic climate in the world after 2002-03, so there's a trend in all developing countries where capital flows heavily, where growth increases in all developing countries, inflation comes down, for example, today that trend doesn't exist that much. In this period, growth has also risen in developing countries and Turkey. But we've grown apart from developing countries, I'm afraid. So the difference, which was 0.3 points in 12 years before the Justice and Development Party, increased to 1.6. So we have a growth structure that has been separated from developing countries. So Mr. Lightning says, "Here, let's take China, India, out of the way. There's nothing that really matters if you take China, India out in the past, but there's no rational and economic logic to be taken out, so we need to see that too. Now, of course, the world trade has gone up as fast as this global crisis, and so have we, our exports, and our imports have gone up fast. There's a very serious price effect here, and it's always kept out of sight. It's like when something talks in dollars, it always talks like it's real, of course. There's a lot of high price hikes. For example, in 2002-08, the average price increased by 11.2 per cent per year. So what this means is that even if you exported 100 water glasses every year, let's say that this is worth $100 in the first year, then $111 in the following year, and then the next year, $122 or $123 in cumulatively increased. In these, of course, it was an illusion. We thought that all of this was important, as if it were a physical increase in exports. And then there's the subject of this euro-dollar parite, which is a matter of some consideration. For example, remember, until a year or two ago, we didn't use the euro-dolar parite as an argument when we talked about foreign trade numbers, especially because it was always in favor of our exports. Now, when we start working against it, for example, our Minister of Economy keeps saying, "Well, sir, here's what happened because of the play in the euro-dolar parite. So, how much can you see on these screens, or how much can you see on these screens, or how much can friends see here? This one came out in 1.17 euro-dollar parite when it first came out in 1999. Later, some fell to 0.87 percent. But especially after the ruling time of the Justice and Development Party, it rapidly increased to the 1.6. And then came down a little bit, only to the last 2015, and to the middle of 2014, this was at 1.4. So our exports both facilitated our exports to Europe, and statistically increased our exports while converting exports in euros into dollars. Now he's working against it. But what's reasonable about this, the euro-dollar parite, is the levels that are now, given the past tense. So it's around 1. In the early years, something happened, and the 1,40 was over, and the 1,60 was over. You've got to see this. So it's not right for me to explain the decline in our exports from the euro-dollar parity, and it's not very honest. Now, Turkey has set a $500 billion export target in front of it. It's important. So it's important to put something, a goal, on its own. We care about that. But, of course, every once in a while, these 500 billion dollars have to be critically critical. When 500 billion dollars were targeted for 2023, I was a bureaucrat at the Ministry of Development at the time. At that time, of course, some of their goals give you power, and the government gives you power. Make a program that will lead me there. This is the right of power, political power to say something like that, basically. And when we looked at the export of that day, which was aiming at $277 billion for the year 2018, it actually seemed reasonable, although it was ambitious, with high growth. So if we were to find $277 billion in 2018, it would seem that 500 billion could be found in 2023, again, with the higher growth the government desired. But, now, of course, over the past three or four years, Turkey has been so far away from these goals that, look, there's no global crisis, so there's no problem like us in other countries. Because of Turkey's own problems, its own economic policy was blocked, and it didn't happen in a day. I've always warned you about this as a technician. So I'm going to come to his reasons in a moment, and because Turkey's economy is blocked, we're seeing them in exports, in other elements, in growth. Now, I said there was a $277 billion target for 2018. The target, with $277 billion, was revised for 201 billion in the medium-term programme announced by Mr. Mehmet Simsek (Mr. Mehmet Simsek) on Monday, so 76 billion was withdrawn. But Mr. Prime Minister, the ministers, and Mr. President, are still talking about $500 billion. Now, of course, $500 billion has been out of reality for a long time now, so you have to see that. Turkey needs to be talked about accordingly. There are no credits, no reputations among those who know how to say $500 billion right now. So for 2018, actually, an 80 per cent increase between 2018-2023 -- export increase -- in cumulative, five years. Even if we assume that it will happen again, the amount of exports Turkey will reach in 2023 at maximum is around $363 billion. This is an important and troubling issue for Turkey. You have to share this with an honest citizen. I expect that honesty from the members of the Justice and Development Party or the MPs. Because if it isn't, technically, somebody tell us what this $500 billion is going to be like. I mean, it's impossible, but it's still very much used in the election, and in all the following meetings, this $500 billion target is being used. Of course, now that we're talking about the World Trade Organization, we need to talk about this. So even though exports are blocked, imports seem to be under control right now, or lessened, but we're still, again, as of the last year, a $63 billion trade deficit. So we need to look at these deals in this frame. Turkey is an economy that reduces growth and reduces current deficits. There's not much rationality in lowering growth and lowering the current. Therefore, Turkey must take measures that will reduce the current deficit by increasing high growth or increasing growth a little bit, but unfortunately there is no such will in the government, although it is verbally present. These have been talked about for three or four years very long, but for three or four years, no measure has been taken outside of the measure of macro-preservation measures, which is to reduce the current deficit structurally in Turkey, I'm afraid. Now, of course these days, low oil prices help us a lot; thankfully, it's good for our economy. The commodity prices help, as well as other commodity prices, but we don't know if it's permanent or not. Projections show it's not permanent. Remember, it came from $140, and now there's an oil price down to $30, and it's going to move up a little bit, and it's going to take us back to a much higher level than our foreign trade deficit. Now, of course, when you have a current deficit, your external debt increases; when your external debt increases, you have to increase your interest to finance external debt. So we have to transfer the resources of this country -- this is very important -- abroad. We use external resources, so when we use external resources, let's say that if you use them to make factories, it's beautiful, but you pay interest, but you're going to produce something in front of it, you're going to provide employment, you're going to pay a lot of your debt with its income. But unfortunately, our external debt is increasing, our current deficit is increasing, but our investments are not increasing.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0407par0070	You're just talking to satisfy your ego, you're not saying anything, and we're listening to you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0408par0071	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0409par0072	Mr. Master, you go ahead, sir, you go ahead.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0410par0073	Go on, go on!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0411par0074	You don't have anything to do with this.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0409par0075	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker. Please...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0411par0076	You're not in the position to be dealing with this.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0412par0077	Behave yourself, damn it!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0411par0078	We need to talk to you some other way.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0412par0079	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0413par0080	Sit down! Don't be rude!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0414par0082	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0415par0083	Look, there's talk there for the good of the country, and you can't stand it.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0414par0084	Congressmans, please, sir, please... please calm down.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0416par0085	He's insulting you; you can't insult him!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0414par0086	Go ahead, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0417par0087	Thus, friends, this country must strive to overcome this obstruction that Turkey has experienced. The economy's blocked. We use outside resources, we bring them in, we spend them on malls, housing projects.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0418par0088	Your mission is provocation. Get the fuck out! Get out!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0414par0089	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0418par0090	If you're not gonna listen, you're gonna get out.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0419par0091	You don't have the capacity to understand.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0418par0092	How much more can he tell you?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0420par0093	Congressmans, please... please calm down.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0419par0094	He's always insulting me.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0421par0095	That's your level, that's all. You guys, look...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0420par0096	Mr. Master, go ahead, sir. Address the General Assembly, Master.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0422par0097	Oh, my God, hold on!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0421par0098	If I were such a poor understanding... I was a high-level bureaucrat for 12 and a half years during your administration.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0423par0099	How did guys like you do it?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0421par0100	It shows your level.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0424par0101	Mr. Master, Mr. Master...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0421par0102	My office of attorney has been to the presidency twice, okay?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0424par0103	Mr. Master, please address the General Assembly. Please address the General Board, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0425par0104	Mr. Master, go ahead, go ahead, don't bother.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0421par0105	I'm afraid you're not in a position to understand. Now, the growing difference between developing countries, my friends.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0425par0108	Let him come.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0421par0109	Look at me, come, come, come, brother, come!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0426par0110	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0425par0111	Mr. Master, go ahead, don't bother.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0421par0112	Now, look at Turkey's... Why is this bothering you? I've also said things that are good on this bench. Guys, if there's a problem, we need to talk about the problem. Why does that bother us? I mean, when we don't talk about boredom...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0427par0114	What time is it?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0421par0115	That's not my problem. I'm here to provide for my children. I can't say that just because I'm going home, now, early. If you're sleepy, don't show me the clock where you're going. It's my duty. Turkey is in the process of signing a very important agreement. I've been sitting down, working and doing an evaluation. That's what I'd like to say to this committee, folks, even if it's one person. I mean, why does that bother us? If there's a mistake, let one of your friends come and say: "What you're saying is wrong."
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0428par0116	It could be wrong, it's your right to tell me, it's amazing!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0429par0117	Yeah, well, these international agreements need to be removed from the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0421par0118	That's another thing, that's another thing.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0430par0119	Mr. Master, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0421par0120	Now, look, Turkey... now, of course, I don't know why it's bothering him, but it's normal that he's uncomfortable with this: look, guys, in 2002... this 2002 disease, let's do a little 2002 analysis. Take Turkey, Turkey on the one hand, put the average of developing countries on the other, okay? So what are the developing countries? We're talking about countries that have the same model of production as us, the same kind of work as us, the same kind of work, and this kind of thing. Now, in 2002, Turkey's per capita income was 2.27 times its developing average. So Turkey is 2.27 times richer than developing countries, per capita income, in 2002. We're coming up in 2008. This falls to 2,11 floors, so it's still not bad, but look, when we get to 2014, it falls to 1.94 floors. So it's going from 2,27 to 1,94. Nobody tell me a story. We need to see these facts of Turkey. We need to talk about this and expand this country. If we're going to take this country to their 2023 targets, these facts need to be spoken of. Friends, we can't see these things when even 30 or 40 television channels are well described when they go wrong. Look, the economy's in trouble, don't you get around? Don't we see the shopkeeper, the farmer, the industrialist? Our employment, our unemployment rate has reached 10.5 per cent. I'm having trouble with it, I'm suffering from it. I'm saying... now, I was going to tell you a lot of things here in case I was allowed to, but none of this is going to happen.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0431par0122	Mr. Master, we have item 1.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0421par0123	So we need to get into structural issues. The development plan... look, we support a significant part of the issues that the government has uncovered, which the Prime Minister has revealed. We have our own party schedules, but let's put together a will to do that. For three years, look, we've been talking about the same thing. We even talked about this as technicians five years ago. He spent two years preparing, and in 2013, we came up with the plan. Believe me, what we discussed in the plan has been explained many times. So let's do more than just explain, let's clear the way for this country. Our youth has a 20% unemployment rate. The demographic opportunity window for Turkey is thirty years. It began in 2000, and ended in 2030. Look, if Turkey doesn't solve its affairs by 2030, then it won't be able to solve their problems in any way, because that window of opportunity is closing. The population is getting older. It's been 15 years, it's been 15 years. I salute your high council. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0432par0128	Thank you, Mr. Master. Second for the groups, Ziya Pir, Diyarbakır MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Pir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0433par0133	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I wanted to make an assessment on Bill 18 but after this time some friends said such things as "We don't listen to numbers." It's not that I don't like it. You can't really understand that much about economics from now on by anyone here if they're not economists. And it's probably too late, so our friends want to go home or they want to catch a plane. Now, as a party, if international contracts are in favor of our people, of course we approve of them here, together, we raise our hands, if not, we don't raise our hands, it's that simple. Now, I don't see any problem with this thing, of course some numbers need to be explained, but now, if international contracts are being made, in a country, you have to follow those international contracts. If we're gonna go along with this contract, if the execution is going to go along with it, we don't see a problem with it, but unfortunately, that's not our practice. Let's get away from the numbers now, and we'll move on to some other numbers. For example, we're implementing curfews here, there are problems with funerals, and these problems are contrary to an international contract that we're part of, and in my view, it's contrary to our own Constitution and our own laws, and there may be different views here, but in my opinion it is. What is this, for example? The right to bury funerals and to be present at funerals is part of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. I mean, it's been applied for good or bad until last week or until last year. Both sides were well-intentioned, well-equipped, but there have been difficulties in this area for about a year. Until today or last week, funerals were supposed to be taken and buried by municipalities. Last week, there was a change in regulations or regulations, the Law on Appliance of the Forensic Medical Association. Now, what does he say about the change? Here, I'll briefly put it this way: until last week, we've said that until last week, if the families don't receive the funerals in three days' time, the governor or the governor's office can seize the funerals and bury them. Now, so far, these sentences are nice, but I'm afraid the Kurds living in the 90s are being touched by nerve endings. Before the election, the white Toros were reminded, the nerve endings touched. Now, again, the issue of funerals lost in the 90s, that's what people think, when I read this, the nerve endings of the Kurds were touched again. Of course, there is concern among people that our funerals will be seized again and these funerals will be lost. The fact that funerals are buried by their families suggests that there may be doubts as to the identity and location of the funerals. Geography, where these risks are the highest, is a geography shaken by the reality of mass graves in the 1990s. Yet every Saturday in Istanbul, people we call the Saturday Mothers come together and demand the funerals of their relatives. This is a wound that still leaves us all bleeding, let alone mending our consciences. I mean, here today, under the roof of this House, together, in this difficult period, in fact, we should be discussing how to rebuild this social peace, discussing it, what's going on, we're away from social peace, unfortunately, with this kind of practice. Unfortunately, the moat between Kurds, Kurdish society, Kurdish people and Turkish people and other peoples is deepening. This, I'm sure, is something none of us wants, and I'm sure of it. I mean, I know that in every group there are people with a conscience, and I want to believe that, but practice and practice are not like that. Yesterday, one of our friends excitedly accused the opposition of cooperating with the Russians, and then, with his apology, we forgot about it. But, unfortunately, we are seen in Europe in the same framework as the Russians. Why? The unlawfulness of the curfew that prevents funerals from being buried, in my opinion, leads to violations of the burial of bodies under Article 8. In the case of Mashkadova against Russia, the decision made by the Russian government again was in accordance with the Russian courts on the grounds that the shape of the people who were known to be terrorists was determined by family and that the delivery of their bodies to their families could lead to more hatred of the state. However, the European Court of Human Rights has stated that the consequences of the dead person's actions are impossible for the relatives of the deceased, referring to the principle of personality of embezzled crime and punishment. According to the ECHR, applications to transfer the burden of the dead's activities to the relatives have a punishing effect. Again, the European Court of Human Rights concluded that it is illegal to attend funerals or at least prevent the opportunity to perform their final duties against those who died. In my opinion, the new form of the Law on Applying the Judiciary of Forensic Medicine is in violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, and I think it will return from the European Court of Human Rights at the latest. I'm a Diyarbakır MP, but I'm also from the Black Sea. Of course you're thinking in the Black Sea, why this practice, what happened to it in Turkey? There's something called the plan to destroy it right now. Look, while I'm reading these, uh... our deputy director of the group said today that we condemn all deaths regardless of who the deaths come from, regardless of who they come from. I say that every day, our party says that every day. And from here, we'll probably repeat it every chance we get until you believe us. Now, the plan for the crash was released to the press, not rejected by the government. I mean, I'm a Diyarbakır MP, I've been there for the last four weeks, I've been here a week before that, I've been there again. I mean, there was a friend from the CHP Group who came in today, and he wanted to talk to me, and he said, "What's going on?" Yeah, you guys should come. I mean, as far as my tongue is concerned, I'm going to try to explain this objectively. Now, a crash plan has been released to the press, and it is alleged that under your government's direction, the secret plan of action was prepared by the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security in September 2014 and was presented to the General Staff's Office of Strategic Plans, which the Strategic Branch has called the "Structory Plan" (also referred to as the secret plan of action). This has never been denied. Since it is in the press, the plan will include special police forces and special military commandos to surround the cities and operate on neighborhoods and settlements, which will be the command center of the attacks, the police and fighter planes, if necessary, will be ordered by the county police commanders. In the blockaded settlements, vital areas will be destroyed and the conditions of return will be eliminated, with mass destructions, arrests and evacuations, and the settlements will be brought to peace. Today, the General Staff is talking about 10,000 to 15,000 destructions -- I don't want to count any more deaths, I don't want to follow any more -- about 8,000 wounded, 57,000 arrests -- we've reached this number as a detention, I think the arrest is around 700,000 people are planned to replace in small and large settlements -- between 150 and 300,000 people who have been bombed. Today, around 130,000 people are sadly displaced from their homeland. Now, there's something else written there. What does it say at work? It is true that the soldiers in the former positions of office, who served here, were brought there again because they knew them. A few months ago, we reported that a rapist commander was brought into that area. We don't take it personally, but I think they mean us by mistake, but we're not taking it personally -- and they need to stop contacting other NGOs. Med Nuçe, Sterk TV, Newroz, Ronahi, MMC TV, NEHA, Özgür Gün TV, İMC TV channels and the adoption of Özgür Gündem newspaper. So all these press organizations we've been counting have been raided, people have been taken into custody, even a few, but one of our female friends has been taken into custody on the grounds that she's doing exciting news. That's the shame of Turkey. So it's a shame for us, for Turkey, for our country, for all of us. ▪ This media should be taken care not to enter the area, the area and the compound, and the area mentioned, and the tanks and armored vehicles around the region and the settlements must be placed in proper locations, and all entrances and exits must be closed. All the activities of electricity, gas and water companies are to be put under the governor's orders, to be followed to the letter and so on... ambulances, fire trucks, if seen fit in the field, to be brought in with authorized and military personnel. We have this European Convention on Human Rights, and if we don't apply it, what if we raise our hand on these contracts? I mean, we're human... and the Prime Minister says it all the time, and so do we. People first. He says. ▪ Human dignity and dignity, and then the state calls it. We think so, too. But human dignity and dignity are being put under the table here, and we're still interested in whether or not it's a contract. Now, in this context, in violation of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which I have just mentioned, for the 17 days of Ramadan Öğur, Jesus is twenty-three days of Oran, and twenty-three days of Mesut Seviktek, and seven days of Rozerin Çukur. The funerals of Rozerin Çukur have been on the ground in Sur, left to rot, and are not allowed to be taken. Now, some friends may have had different information about this, but I went to pick up the funerals. When we met with the governor, the governor said it was dangerous. He said you could go and get it sometime. I said, can you provide our safety? He was an example in Şırnak, went to a paramedic, where he wanted to take one wounded, shot by snipers. Now I'm going to go there, or I'm going to send my friends, can you make sure we're safe? No, no. Last week, I think it was to legitimize this judicial institution thing, he's writing two lines to the Metropolitan Municipality, and we're not going to operate for three hours where those funerals are, so go get them. How do we know our friends won't be killed by snipers? Did he give you that assurance? He didn't. If he didn't, how am I supposed to take that risk, put my friends at risk? I can't. So that's still how we're prevented from receiving our funerals. Otherwise, the governor says, "Go get it." I mean, I didn't find my friends at the... Anyway, let's skip all that. I mean, these are long issues. Those are the shames of all of us to me. I mean, people are dead, they're taken from there, and they're buried, and I think it's a shame that even here, I mean, 550 lawmakers, we're out of 80 million, we're here, we're talking to each other about things, we're picking on each other. Therefore, there are three or four funerals that have been removed from all provisions; it shouldn't be so difficult in the Republic of Turkey for them to be taken and buried in the morgue. Now, someone's coming out, and the last one's getting on a TV show by phone, and he says: "People shouldn't die, children shouldn't die." Some things he says. Here's the text. Anyone can take it off the Internet and read it. I don't think there's any organization propaganda there, I don't see it. If anyone sees it, let me know where they see it. I don't really see it here. We have a teacher, a person with a conscience... Seriously, come to Diyarbakir and other places, so be my guest, be my guest for 24 hours. Galip Ensarioğlu be your deputy, our other deputy, guest of our Diyarbakır MPs 24 hours. Don't talk to me; go talk to the people there. There are those who criticize me. Look...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0434par0151	He went to pick up the funerals on Tuesday.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0433par0152	On Tuesday, she went to get the funerals, which you remind me of. They said, "You'll bring the weapons of the people there with you." They said to the paramedics, "We know it's a trap, we've lived it before, we know it's your practice." You shoot people with guns, and then you say, "These were terrorists." We don't fall into that trap. Don't speak of him without knowledge of our friend, and don't speak of him from behind.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0435par0153	What happened, what happened; you were going quietly, and what happened?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0433par0154	I apologize to all of you. I don't want to talk out loud at this hour, but...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0435par0155	My servant, you really are from the Black Sea!
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0433par0156	I'm from the Black Sea. Don't touch my nerve endings. What did the teacher Ayþe Çelik say, for God's sake? If you want peace in this country now, don't let the children die. You say, "Don't let the children die." Don't you? That's what you're saying.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0436par0158	But the war on terror will continue.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0433par0159	Oh, is this separatism, what is this? I just don't get it. After that, our intellectuals come out and publish something. It's the same thing... whether we like it or not, it releases something. Ya, their consciences ache, they say: "Ya, let there be no deaths here." Whoever's on your side, let there be no deaths. We're lynching them here. I mean, it reminds me of the McCarthy arrangements in America in the 1950s. And then, well, there was witch hunting, and people were lynched, and so was this. It's a shame that 550 chosen people are here when we should be discussing the contents of that text, the content of the text is true. When we should be discussing it wrong or wrong, they are the enemy, they are traitors, they are, they are collaborative and so on. Yesterday, our friend here made a lot of insults to us. I'm running out of time, and I don't want to pass that along, but... What happened to the academy about these things? I'm really ashamed to be an overseas student. And when I went to Germany, Austria, France, Belgium, Belgium, you say this country -- the national, the national -- I defended it most, 35 years there, I defended it for 35 years, but I can't defend it now. In a declaration issued by the Academics for Peace Initiative at Abdullah Gul University, the resignation of Professor Dr. Bulent Tanju. The President of the University of Kopeeli says that the union of the state in question cannot be academic freedom.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0437par0163	Not if he's supporting terrorism.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0433par0164	Oh, division. You say...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0438par0165	What do we say when it comes to separatism?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0433par0166	For God's sake, fellas, look, I want to remind you of something. Look, you're accusing us of separatism. We've always expressed and expressed, however, that we all want to live together in our own self within the state of the Republic of Turkey, together. We express it every time. We're not separatists. But those who know about 16 islands know. 16 men have been occupied by Greece for years, the lands of this common land have been occupied, and we can't maintain our sovereignty. Every one of us is a congressman here. Take one man from each party, take him to those islands, Mr. Minister, take him to those islands, and we will prove together whether those islands are ours or the Greeks' or the invasion or our sovereignty. After that, the separatist... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the people who want to live together, the people who know the boundaries of this place, are we the separatists or the ones who surrender those islands to the Greeks? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0439par0172	Thank you, Mr. Pir. There are no other demands on the entire bill. Now I'm going to start the question-answer process on the entire bill. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0440par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the Foreign and International Protection Act was finalized in the Parliament in 2003. Of course, in one of the temporary articles of this law, it says: "There is a need to be directed. " Only, the regulations are not taken out on certain issues, and the refugees are currently under the control of secret regulations. What are these secret phrases about? Why did he feel the need to be debriefed? I'd appreciate it if you'd fill me in on that.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0439par0178	Yeah, no more questions. Mr. Secretary, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0441par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tanal, of course, obviously, since I'm not fully aware of the question you're asking right now, I'm asking you to give me time to discuss it with our Home Secretary and give you this in writing.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0439par0182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. No more questions.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0442par0184	Yes, I do, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0439par0185	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0442par0186	Well, if you'll excuse me, I'll ask all the questions, and I won't go in one by one.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0439par0187	Sure.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0442par0188	Minister, there are 3 per cent disabled quotas in private sectors where there are more than 50 people working under Article 30 of the Employment Act, and there are 4 per cent disabled quotas in public institutions. What are the quotas for disabled citizens in all Turkey? How disabled is he working on these quotas right now? How many disabled quotas are available? Why isn't it loaded? Another question, Minister, is what I have, right now, is the electricity bill coming into the house. This electricity bill is supposed to come in once a month, but it comes every 20 days, and when it comes in here every 20 days, the meter-reading price is taken separately, the service price is taken separately, the bill-cutting price is taken separately. Normal, if it comes every 30 days, it's 12 months, that's 16 months because it comes every 20 days. I mean, the citizen gets paid separately for each bill. Isn't that against the law? Don't you realize how you're going to deal with this citizen's loss? I'd like to get your thoughts on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0443par0191	Mr. Ilican.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0444par0192	Mr. Minister, I've asked you before, but do you intend to start a study without waiting for the youth Olympics for Erzurum to win the Winter Olympics with Sarikamis Kars?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0443par0193	Mr. Tanal, I believe you have a question again.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0445par0194	Mr. Minister, we have a sports club in the district of Sandzaktepe, Istanbul Province. They really need help financially. I'd like to ask you to support your local sports teams. Will you have an initiative regarding Sandzaktepe? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0443par0196	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0446par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. Regarding the two questions that Mr. Tanal has raised, I'm going to ask our ministers to take the matter up with them and give them a written answer. However, I can tell you that we also know that new practices have been launched, especially during the period of our governments, especially in the business market and for employment, that this number has increased, but I will give you the written answers to your questions. The other issue of the meter is about our Ministry of Energy. I'll let you know. Of course, we, of course, give serious support to all sports clubs, especially our amateur sports clubs, which work with amateurs in this sense, as to the question you've raised in terms of the Sandzaktepe Sports Club in Istanbul, or rather, financial support. In this regard, I have received your request as İstanbul Sandzaktepe Sports Club, and I will have it examined. Other than that, if there are other sports clubs that ask you for help in this sense, financial support or material support, in such matters, if you deliver them to them as well...
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0447par0201	And then there's Lucky Faspor.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0446par0202	I know that, Mr. Tanal, I know that. We've talked to our Urban lawmakers about it many times, and we've helped them. We will continue to help them in the general sense. About the 2026 Youth Olympics, Mr. Ilıcan, we've discussed your work at Erzurum, regarding the Winter Olympics. Our work on him continues under a general strategy, and we'll share them with you. But first -- like I said -- we've got EOWF to do next year, so hopefully we'll end up doing it in a good way, in a good way, in our country, and then we'll look at other programs. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0448par0205	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tanal, any further questions, sir?
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0449par0207	No, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-14sit08spe0448par0208	Yes, since there are no further questions, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. THE CONTACT OF PROTHOLOCY CONTRACTING THE CONTACT OF THE WORLD TRANSITION ACTUALLY BUILDING THE CONTACT OF THE PROTOCOL ADDDE 1- (1) was adopted on November 27, 2014, in addition to 1A, which included the World Trade Organization Agreement's property trade agreements, and was adopted by the World Trade Organization General Council. No one wants a word on article 1. No questions. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. No one wants a word on the 2nd article. No questions. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. No one wants to speak on the third article. No questions. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't... Article 3 is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The World Trade Organization's Convention on Kuran Marrakech Agreement on Easing Trade with Protocol ▪ Number of votes used: 215 [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin negotiations with the Council of Europe (/323) and the Foreign Commission Report (1/323), which are ranked in the 3rd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. After that, it was agreed that the Commission would not be found, that on Tuesday (January 19th 2016), it was 15 p.m. to discuss the Law Bills and Proposals and other Affairs from the Commissions in order. I'm closing the assembly at 00, so I'll say good night.
