tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 22nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Balıkesir MP Ahmet Akin, who wants to talk about the problems of the olive industry. Here you go, Mr. Akin.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book agreement regarding the problems of our olivery. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, olives are the livelihood of 600,000 families in our country, a product that is directly and indirectly effective in the livelihood of 10 million people. We have 171 million olive trees, and we are number two in the world after Spain. We can only produce 177,000 tons of olive oil from 171 million olive trees in our country. In 2000, our country produced 1,800,000 tonnes of olives from around 100 million olive trees, while it could produce 1,530,000 tonnes of olives, according to the year 2016. The number of trees is increasing, the production is not increasing. What kind of business is that? Olivery is an important sector for our Balıkesir. According to 2015 data, Balıkesir has a total of 11.5 million olive trees, which produce 77,500 tons of olives. Thousands of families work on olives, but they don't make any money. Both our country and Balıkesir will need more income than the production of olives and olive oil. For that, we must take and support measures to improve our olivery. The 70-cent premium support for olive oil is insufficient. This has to be doubled at least, and the olives need to be bonused. Our manufacturers expect premium support for $1.5 of olive oil and 50 of olives. In EU countries, olive oil support is 1.3 euros per kilogram. That's why our oil exporters can't compete with these countries. Last year, the yield of 7 kilograms per tree in Balıkesir fell further back this year. Prices have also dropped significantly over the past year. Last year the total price of olive oil was $18, and this year it dropped to around $10. Again, oiled olives sold over $3 in our region last year and sold under $2 this year. Instead of developing our olive groves in an environment where we have a plant oil shortage, where even this deficit continues to increase, where we pay very serious foreign exchanges in herbal oil imports, we are unfortunately witnessing attempts to reduce and plunder our olive groves. Dear lawmakers, if anything is to be done about our olivery, it should be a transition to modern olivery. We have a special law 3573. The AKP has made six attempts so far to prevent olive groves from being changed by this law, but these initiatives have been rejected in our Parliament, but it seems that the government will not give up its initiatives. Now, we have a draft draft of the production reform package drafted by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. Over the past few months, this draft has been opened up and the discussion continues. With this bill, the amendment to the 20th article of the law that protects our olive groves opens the way for the cutting of olive trees and the slaughter of olive trees by giving a certain amount of money. For what? For Rant. The AKP sees olivery as an obstacle to investments, not an economic value; it wants to cut down the olive trees that pay for it. An olive tree continues to produce economic value for hundreds of years, even thousands of years, and not depending on the variables in the economy, so I didn't make a profit this year, so let me close the shop. When your investments don't make a profit, you hit the lock and leave, but no olive tree does, I don't, I don't, I don't. While olive groves are protected in Spain, Italy, Greece and other countries, it is not clear that the olive tree insists on opening our olive groves in Turkey, its genetic motherland. First, I would like to call off this raiding attempt on power, and I would like to invite you, my fellow congressmen, to take care of our olive groves and our olive makers, which are strategically important to our country. We, the Republican People's Party, will fight when this bill comes. As always, we will take our place next to our olive maker, our manufacturer. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. Akin. The second statement outside the agenda is owned by Nevşehir MP Ebubekir Secgider, who wants to make a commitment to comment on the impressions and assessments held at the United Nations Conference on Climate Change Session, held in Morocco Marrakesh, where they represent the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a member of the International Union (PAB) Turkish Group. Here you go, Mr. Undercover.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0004par0029	Mr. President, I'd like to inform our esteemed MPs and General Assembly on Sunday (November 13th) as part of the United Nations Conference on Climate Change in Morocco from November 7th to 18th, about the parliamentary session we attended as members of the PAB Turkish Group. Honourable lawmakers were evaluated the Paris Agreement at the World Climate Summit, which took place in Marrakesh district of Morocco, just three days after the 175 member states, which were adopted on December 11, 2015, which included our country as well as April 22, 2016, which took effect on November 4, 2016. This conference has also been attended at the highest level as a government, with our Minister Mehmet Özhaseki Bey, Bursa MP Mr. Muhammad Mufit Aydın, Republican People's Party Sinop MP Mr. Barış Karadeniz and ministry bureaucrats participating in the country's thesis. I mean, there was a double turnout. The first is the participation of the parliamentarians and the other is the participation of governments. This 195-member country has been told of the human drama in the Mediterranean, it has been noted that Europe and the modern world are insensitive to this drama, and that our desire to host the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference, which will take place in 2020 has been delivered to the highest level by the Minister. Under the Paris Treaty, our country declared it would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 to 21 per cent. In the first session of the panel, where we discussed our work to achieve these goals, we explained that in our country, over 14 years of political, economic stability, we set road maps that would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, despite a four per cent growth rate and a 6 per cent increase in energy per year. Our investments in railway and sea roads to reduce greenhouse gas emissions stemming from the transport sector have drawn considerable attention to Marmaray and our high-speed train projects connecting Asia and Europe's continents with the rail system. Again, we have shared with the participating countries our 16 thousand megawatts of power targets in solar energy and wind energy, which are key arguments for the fight against climate change, energy efficiency and clean energy as part of the Paris Agreement National Consolidation Statement. Although Turkey is one of the least polluting countries in the environment, we have mentioned our request at the parliamentarians' session, reminding our country of the economic and technological support agreed on by the Green Climate Fund, where special conditions have been provided by the measures and the decision of the Conference of Sides. The same request, again, has been made at the conference by our Minister, who, as Turkey, underlined the Paris Agreement at the highest level in bilateral talks with 14 countries, where our primary condition for bringing and ratifying the Great National Assembly of Turkey is to take advantage of the Green Climate Fund immediately and transfer technology. Again, the second panel on social impacts of climate change discussed the impact of climate change on migration. We wanted to approach the issue from a reverse perspective, and yes, it is accepted by everyone that climate change leads to migrations and conflicts, but we also stressed that the negative effects of conflicts and migration waves on vegetation and other natural resources in Turkey's centre have triggered global warming and climate change. We also stressed to our country that in the past 1991, a massive influx of immigrants from northern Iraq and Syria today caused irrefutable environmental damage, and that our country should also be supported in this regard, or that if this is not supported in the long term, the intense flow of immigrants towards Europe will lead to environmental disasters that cannot be dealt with by them. No matter what race, faith, religion, we have no place to live but this world. Either we move in together and stop cutting the branch we're riding, or we turn this blue sphere, which has been entrusted to us purely until the last century, into a black sphere that will never happen. Just as cleaning is half of faith, even in war, if we are heirs of a blessed understanding that advises you not to harm trees, orders you not to harm trees, we have to carry out all of our policies with that understanding, starting with our municipalities, until the central government. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0005par0038	Thank you, Mr. Undercover. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Adana MP Muharrem Varlı, who asked about Adana's problems. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0006par0043	Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about Adana's problems. On this occasion, I salute you all. Of course, it can only be a trick to describe Adana's problems and problems here in five minutes. If we talk for hours, we want to share the problems, problems, but as much as we can breathe, as much as we can, with you and those who follow us. In the past years -- I've said it many times -- and I'll keep saying it -- it's a topic of Turkish movies with wealth; here is the child of the rich cotton Agha who goes and reads in Istanbul and falls in love with the poor girl -- and as these scenarios are being written, the poor child of Adana should be written in Istanbul, in love with the daughter of a rich man. Because, unfortunately, Adana is getting poorer and poorer and more and more, it's becoming a city that's losing industrial facilities. It was once a city where the land of the stones was come and settled in gold, and everyone got a job, and now it's a city where there's an army of unemployed in the streets, Adana. One of the cities where unemployment is at its highest is now, unfortunately, Adana. I want to say that we are sorry to hear of Adana's name in this way. So, you're looking at incentives; there's a huge difference between the encouragement given to Kahramanmarash, the encouragement given to Gaziantep, and the encouragement given to Adana. Of course, let both Kahramanmarash and Gaziantep be encouraged, and they are our provinces, and the industrialists there are our industrialists, our businessmen, but why don't you encourage Adana in the same category, for the sake of God? No. We've said that over and over again, you haven't applied the same system, even though we've run out of hair in our language. We said to him, "Adnana, let us make it an industrial paradise again. You have not listened to any of them, nor have you done any of them." Friends, as a result, there is an energy fellowship in Adana -- my dear friends who have been acting from the past to this time. You've been bragging about it all these years, everywhere you've been, you've said, "We're going to revitalize the energy field. The energy zone, Ceyhan ovarian region, will become Turkey's Rotterdam. You haven't nailed a nail, and so far, you've stopped it from crashing. However, if those investments had been made there, there would be no unemployment in Adana until now. At one time, we had a majority of the county legislature at the National Movement Party. When a group of people were denied a medium scale, small scale, or large scale map, you dated 10,000 people, 20,000 people, members of the province's general assembly of the National Movement Party. We said, "Oh, brother, don't. Well, if that's the case, let's give it a shot. Okay, it's done, it's done. So far, none of those yellers have been found, and not a single artifact has been made, and not a single nail has been struck. So, you've always misled our people, you've always promised our people hope, but in the end, there's no result of these promised hopes. Our people go on with their lives struggling with unemployment, hardship. Not just unemployment, but the farmer in Adana is not well. I mean, today the citrus manufacturers are having trouble selling their fruit. Here, we all know about the crisis with Russia. I wish it hadn't happened, but I hope it's resolved quickly. At the point where it's being resolved, there's also the necessary initiatives, but we need to get this done as soon as possible... because the country where the citrus manufacturers export the most is Russia. This crisis needs to be resolved immediately because oranges and tangerines are down to 50 cents a kilogram, while the lemon is above 1 TL, and it's down to 60 to 70 cents. It's a shame, it's a sin. These people work hard. Look, the amount of diesel spent until a product can grow and market, only when you multiply it by 15 litres of friends, 4 ▪, that's a very important number. The farmer's fertilizer, his medicine, his labor expenses, his tractor, and above all, his sweat on the ground, he says it's our duty to repay you, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0007par0052	Thank you, Mr Varli. Members of parliament, the non-responsive talks carried out under Article 59 of the Interior Charter have been terminated. Now, I'm going to go into the electronic system and give my word to the lawmakers who are demanding word. I'm starting the promise process. Mr. Sibel Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0008par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. TECHNIC's latest statement of unemployment shows clearly that Turkey's economy is trending in stagnation. The unemployment rate has risen to 11.3%. He's taking foreign currency courses, starting in August, the loss of TLS against dollars is nearly 14 percent, and this loss of inflation in TL is an increase. Foreign debt has increased $117.5 billion in the last five years. The budget deficit continues to increase. Industrial production has declined by 3.2 percent. Growth is expected to take place around 2% this year. Now, this concrete and grave data has shown that the AKP government means low growth, low employment, unemployment. The AKP government means poverty, trouble with livelihood. The AKP government is a debt-raising, bankruptcy, instability, and unfortunately, unhappiness.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0007par0061	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0009par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Niğde is also having serious problems in health care. Kayseri and Ankara are always looking for us for sick love. According to their majors, problems with the quality of doctor and health care continue. I told the Minister in the Plan and Budget Commission talks that the mother candidate is getting sick in Niğde. They take her to the hospital at 10:30 p.m., because the newborn is not an intensive care unit, there are 112 calls for patients in the private hospital and no hospital to be sent to. Later, after 3:30 a.m., a patient is sent to a hospital in Kahramanmarash. The patient who was rushed to the hospital in Kahramanmarash, four hours away, is giving birth. Unfortunately, I just found out the kid passed away a week later. In that case, the family, of course, is very upset. The transfer to the patient is also an important problem. It is a sign of our health that a patient is in a position to be transferred to Maraş, where he is located in the provinces of Konya, Kayseri, Adana.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0007par0065	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0010par0067	Mr. President, despite the number of insured bonus days, 300,000 employees waiting for the age requirement to be reinstated. The government has announced several times that new arrangements will be made, but no improvements have been conducted. On the other hand, pension workers who are looking to live on age limits must continue to work on insurance to benefit from health services for free, but if they continue to work from a minimum wage worker who, according to the Social Security Agency, has a minimum wage fee cut per month. The sum of these cuts is deducted from his pension, covered by insurance, and is normally punished for working on a mandatory basis after completing his bonus. Overcoming all these problems requires a new arrangement to address the victims of 300,000 pensioners.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0007par0069	Mr. Kayan...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0011par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. In the district of Lüleburgaz, Cırklareli, there are two homes of terror organizations called "Lüleburgaz"; one is being used and the other is almost finished. These dorms are intended to be given to the Religious Foundation. This causes suspicion and discrimination between students and parents, which concerns the people of Lüleburgaz. The people of Lüleburgaz ask that the countries mentioned be given to the Credit and Housing Institution. My compliments to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0012par0074	Mr. Erkan Aydın...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0013par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. The government's trying to rid the state of the land, but they're replacing it with other cults. AKP's new favorite is the Nakshibendi cult. The Radio and Television Supreme Council, RTÜK, approved a commercial film for the Nakshibendilik symposium organised by the St. Mahmoud Hudayi Foundation for free broadcasting as a public spot on radio and television. They are now trying to change the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, Article 2 of the Constitution of Turkey, which defines the Republic of Turkey as a secular, social law state. Our constitution is still in effect, and RTÜK, an official institution, commits constitutional crime. I speak to the AKP members of the RTÜK (RTÜK) who are strong against secularism: Stand down from committing this Constitutional crime at once.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0012par0078	Mr. Sula Köseoğlu...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0014par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, with the participation of our President last Tuesday night, we attended the launch of the international channel TRT World (TRT), which is based on English news and documentary broadcasts. TRT1, TRT News, TRT Sports, TRT Avaz, TRT Boy, TRT Documentary, TRT Music, TRT El Arabia, TRT Dianet, TRT Türk, TRT Kurdi, TRT World will be a key tool for our country's promotion in international arena after TRT World. He believes that this channel, which was opened in 1990 and will replace TRT in 1999, will contribute to the development of accurate information in the international community, especially despite the negative propaganda of the PKK and the TRT terrorist organization, and I wish for a successful and long life on behalf of our country. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0012par0083	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0015par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Home Secretary: Electric bicycles are required to have license plates. It was, however, that years before the law was enforced, citizens who took this vehicle and used it were sentenced to delay. How can a poor citizen who drives a $2,000 vehicle have a license, registration, registration, and transactions of 1,500-2? How about he spends $ 000? Even the missing plates are reversible and punished. Aren't you going to correct this ridiculous and unfair procedure, Mr. Secretary? How can an application from the date the law has passed be carried back? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0016par0088	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0017par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. To date, several departmental graduates are eligible for employment in the General Directorate of the State Airports. This is an unfair situation for graduates of the civil air transport management department, which is brought up as an expert in the business. The main factor in this victimization is the opening of appointments for the State Air Square Corporation staff with joint codes and not taking into account the concept of discretion in private institutions. Young people who have graduated from civilian air transport management are trained in accordance with developing aviation regulations, but are not preferred by private agencies in airports, the concept of policy is not applied. I'd like to invite the Ministry of Transport to make arrangements as soon as possible for the removal of this victim.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0016par0093	Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0018par0095	Mr. President, there has been a full legal scandal with the State of Emergency declared after the coup attempt on our country, and the ruling of the law imposed on it. While all these illegal activities are being done, France is being tried to establish a basis for this unlawfulness, with similar practices under the State of Emergency. Many officials from France continue to use it, even though the declared State of Emergency practices do not seem similar to Turkey almost every day. In that case, I'd like to ask the government and its authorities. One: Is the State of Emergency declared in France outside the jurisdiction? Two: Does France have the authority to conduct the State of Emergency in accordance with the law? Three: When we look at all of this, where is the resemblance between the State of Emergency and the State of Emergency that was declared in France? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0019par0098	Dear İbrahim Aydemir...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0020par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. The Erzurumians follow the constitutional amendment process and the presidential agenda with the attention of the national will, supporting every step and initiative taken along this road. The descendants of Abdurrahman Gazi, who consider the constitutional amendment an absolute necessity, a democratic preference and a necessity for the presidential system, also show appreciation for the progress made along the way, and appreciate the commitment shown. Friends who believe that the presidential system and constitutional amendment are a record of trust and loyalty to the national will, that the nation is an expression of confidence in its wisdom and surrender, believe that the country's priority is these two changes. The Erzurumians share the agenda of the Constitutional Change and Presidential System of Turkey, which has brought Turkey to a modern level in the social and economic context during the 14-year period, carrying Turkey into the vision of the leading country, and are relying on its pioneers and recording their gratitude. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0021par0104	Mr. Yilmaztekin...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0022par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Lawmakers elected by the nation's votes, mayors and parliamentary members must distance themselves from the enemy of the nation's terrorist organisations. Otherwise, it is the law's responsibility for the people's will and to be dismissed and arrested for the sake of democracy. International law and democracy say so. However, those who teach Turkey's fight against terrorism are deposed mayors for defamation in their own country. The Clay Mayor, who made Michelle Obama look like a monkey in heels, was suspended after the investigation. While waiting for unconditional and unconditional support for our fight against terrorism, governments who are trying to teach us a lesson must first review their own democracy. I hereby wish the trustees and governors good luck in their duties and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0023par0109	Mr. Kövcıoğlu...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0024par0111	May our 40th national park, Mount Kop, defend the historic national park, be blessed for our entire country. On behalf of Bayburt, all of our ministers, our Prime Minister in the first place. Congressmans, why is it important for Mount Kop to be historically national park? After the bitter defeat we received in Sarıkamis, the last line of defense, the Kop defense, the second Canakkale saga, and the second Plevne defenses have passed through our history. Our victory at Çanakkale, as well as our defense at Kop, was one of the major events in which Russia, who fought the Bolshevik Revolution, suffered severe injuries and retreated from the war. The Kop defence allowed the Russians to linger and be stopped for as long as six months. If it weren't for this, Russian military commander General Yudenich, who dreamed of being ahead of Istanbul in June, calling it West Anatolia, could not even cross the Kop Mountains this month. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0025par0115	Mr. Shield...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0026par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, when we turned on the TV this morning, it's incredible news. The news is from the Republican People's Party İzmir MP. Ali Yiğit has stated that the Izmirites are prepared to leave Turkey and enter Europe if necessary: let İzmir leave Turkey and enter the European Union. You show documents all the time, and I'll show you. Sir, this statement comes from a Republican People's Party MP and an Izmir MP. I strongly condemn this statement against the indivisible integrity of our country and say to Ali Yigit, "Woe be to you!" This expression is a surprising and mind-blowing expression.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0027par0122	Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0026par0123	I guess Ali Yigit must be surprised because I can't imagine a normal, sane person explaining things like that.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0027par0124	Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0026par0125	Ali Yiğit also disrespected our republic, which was the sacred relic of High Leader Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and our borders of Misakimilli.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0027par0126	Mr. Backup, check the microphone next door.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0026par0127	My final word is that Izmir is Turkish and will remain Turkish.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0027par0128	Here you go, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0028par0130	Mr. President, thank you. According to the Labor Health and Occupational Safety Council, 1,421 workers died in the first nine months of the year. In business accidents, 25 people have died in a business accident in our country, which is the first and third place in the world. All the people who lost their lives in a business accident are brothers and sisters who are struggling to earn and bring home good bread. In our country, where death is called fate or accident, it's caused by neglect, lack of control, subcontractorization, and the desire to make more profits. And the latest example of that, unfortunately, is in the renovation of our Capitol building. A brother who works here fell on our brother's head, a stone block surrounding the window on the top floor. I wish this worker a speedy recovery as soon as possible.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0027par0133	Dear Kazim Arslan...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0029par0135	I'm asking the Secretary of Labor and Social Security. One, those of us who have a yellow press card are given a period of retirement. This is only applied to those who are from the USSR. People who have a yellow press card and own newspapers are made from BUG-KUR, but they don't have the TMV. We demand that this injustice and inequality be eliminated and applied to those with the yellow press card, as well as to those with the BUG-KUR. Two, we have thousands of citizens from Social Security who are insured and waiting for retirement. It is a fact that our fellow citizens who wait are victimized by this unfair decision that your power has suddenly taken. When do you think you'll be able to heal those who wait for time to recover from these sacrifices and get them to retire as soon as possible? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0030par0138	Thank you, Mr. lion. One minute of conversation is over.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0031par0140	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0030par0141	Mr. Hero...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0031par0142	Our Izmir MP just had a rough-up with me according to the Civil Code 69. He said, "Woe be to you! I want to talk to you about bullying."
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0030par0143	Here you go, Mr. Hero. I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0031par0148	Mr. President, my dear fellow councillors, I salute you all. In my speech to the party members at Kayseri, part of what I said was ignored and misunderstood by lack of expression. I made an assessment of the country's agenda in my speech. During my speech, I referred to relations between Turkey and Europe, which have been very tense lately. Although we have been struggling to enter the European Union for fifty-seven years, we do not want you in Europe lately. I stressed that their voices are starting to rise, saying that it is not so easy. I also stated how democratic and modern and liberal that I was an MP and how ready to become a member of Europe. What I used to say when I said this is that from time to time, we say, "Let Izmir leave, so we don't want to live with them." The expression is not meant for one person or a group. Since it was not clear, it was drawn from my mind to the meaning that would not cross my mind, as it was expressed in terms of praising the values associated with Izmir. Naturally, there have been various reactions. There is no doubt that lack of expression has an effect here. But in my speech, we, the Izmirians, truly believe in basic human rights and freedoms, democracy, justice, equality, peace, brotherhood, and want to enter the European Union. These values are the universal values of human beings, and we believe in them, and we defend them. I mean, you can't live where these values aren't, where they're not accepted. Knowing that our country's land is watered by blood, Izmir is the gateway of our country to the West, which defends our undivisable integrity and unitary structure in line with the country and its goals. I'd like to emphasize that with praise. As a man who's always expressed unity and unity, I can't think as I've been reflected in public. In this context, I consider myself a tyrant to respond to the values attributed to me. If I have a flaw, I apologize to Parliament and Turkey, all the peoples of Turkey. My respects.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0032par0153	They're still people.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0033par0154	Thank you, Mr. Hero. Mr. Erkan Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0032par0158	I'd also like to remind you that the congressman's statement of this people is a false statement. There are no people in Turkey, there are Turkish people, there are Turkish people, there are citizens of the Republic of Turkey; the people are separatists. I want to remind you of that. Mr. President, thank you. Dear MPs, today is Azerbaijan National Resistance Day. One of Azerbaijan's most important steps on the road to independence was taken, starting on 17 November 1988. The national Day of Resurrection is celebrated in Azerbaijan as the beginning day of the fight for national salvation, in the process of restoring the independence of the Azerbaijan people. So, as the National Movement Party, we celebrate Azerbaijan's proud day of salvation, and greet all Azerbaijans with love and conversation. On this occasion, I remember with mercy and gratitude the members of the National Azerbaijan Movement, especially Mehmet Emin Evalzade and Abulfez Elçibey, who dedicated their lives to the struggle for freedom of Azerbaijan. The 2016 Global Corruption Barometer has recently been announced. The study indicates that worldwide corruption is very serious. Unfortunately, the image of Turkey does not look good in this study. According to the study, 45 per cent of society in Turkey thinks corruption is common. Again, 62 per cent of participants in Turkey have expressed that all institutions and representatives of the institution, which constitute the executive body, think politicians are involved in corruption.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0034par0164	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0032par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. Ideas about the report of corruption also show that the hope of getting ahead of corruption is becoming increasingly extinct. Corruption cannot be controlled for reasons such as the 57 per cent of society abstaining from negative consequences for itself, thinking it cannot be proven, or believing that the institutions to be reported are part of corruption. These figures show, unfortunately, that they have been kept away from an accountable, transparent government, that society's hope for this is becoming increasingly lost. As a whole country and as political institutions, I think we need to focus our attention on this important issue. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0035par0169	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0036par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. We celebrate the anniversary of November 17, 1988, the National Day of Resurrection of Azerbaijan. We greet Friend and Brother Azerbaijan with the most beautiful expression of our solidarity and brotherhood expressed as two states and one nation, and on the anniversary of the day when they regain independence, we send our greetings to the people of Azerbaijan as the Republican People's Party, from the heart and from the highest level of solidarity. Mr. President, we have spent the week considering the 33rd anniversary of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. A reception was held yesterday in Ankara. This reception was also invited by the protagonist of Operation Peace in Cyprus, the Cypriots' lover, the former President of our party and Mr. Rahşan Hanim, the esteemed wife of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. The 93-year-old Rahşan Ecevit protocol was not traditionally welcomed where it should be. While Chief of General Staff and Deputy Prime Minister A were sitting in protocol, there was no invitation and no location shown to Ms. Rahşan. When Mrs. Rahşan, who welcomed this rudeness with maturity, wanted to leave at the end of the reception and use the elevator that she was forced to use as an age, the Chief of Staff's special guard team, who, instead of protecting the Chief of Staff on the night of July 15th, had taken prisoners instead of protecting the Chief of Staff, were able to protect the elevator of the Chief of Staff from Rahşan Hanım. The one they used against me to get Mrs. Rahshan into the elevator.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0037par0176	Mr. Special, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0036par0177	Mrs. Rahşan first belongs to the elevator commander. The commander will leave, and then you will get on. They have signed a great curse, such as keeping it unusable in the mechanism of the elevator. This event, which is present on both social media and websites, will be discussed in the coming days. We, the Republican People's Party, condemn this behavior. We're waiting for a statement from the authorities. And we condemn the Chief of Staff for the shame of the 15th of July, and for the strength of Mrs. Rahşan, 93 years old with her marks around her neck. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0038par0180	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0039par0183	Mr. President, dear friends, we, the AK PARTY Group, would like to express our heartfelt congratulations on Azerbaijan's National Day of Resurrection. One nation, two states, Azerbaijan and Turkey are two ancient friends, two brothers and ally countries. As long as there is a world, both Azerbaijan and the Republic of Turkey will live as long as the world turns. Mr. President, one of the conversations that was made just now has been used with certain statements. I'd like to share some data with you in order to inform the General Assembly. I'd like to give you some information about Turkey's olive production and its place in the world in this sense. Turkey raised olive production from 99 million trees in the 2000s to 171 million 992,000 trees today. The olive field has risen from 600 thousand hectares to 836,935 hectares. The production of olive oil increased from 65,000 tonnes in the 2000s to 185,000 tonnes today. From 250,000 tons of olive olives to 400,000 tons in olive production today, oil olives have grown from 365 thousand tons to 1,300,000 tons. Turkey is ranked third in the world in cooking olives, while oil production is ranked fourth in the world. These data clearly show that there is no issue such as the destruction of olive fields, destruction of olive fields, but that during the rule of Turkey's Justice and Development Party, olive production has increased oil production, and there is a country in the world that has a say in the world.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0040par0187	I'll turn on your mic, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0039par0188	And I want to make it clear from here that Turkey is on its way with determination in the fight against terrorism. In this sense, I would like to express to our security units, our security units, our property managers and all our fellow officers and citizens in this struggle that Turkey will be in the way of this righteous struggle and Turkey will be free of terrorism. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0040par0190	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Members of parliament, Turkey and Azerbaijan are one nation, two states. We celebrate the national Day of Resurrection of our Azerbaijan brothers, the People of Azerbaijan, as the Supreme Assembly of Turkey. Also, I regret to inform you that I do not approve of the behavior expressed to Mr. Rahshan Ecevit, which Mr. Free Special, which Mr. Free Private has expressed during the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus's Republika Srpska ceremony. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Assembly of Economic Affairs Committees on Economic Affairs Committees on the Energy Union, which will be held in Bratislava, Slovakia, on December 1, 2016, was adopted in the General Assembly's 09/11/2016 Union. The names of the political party groups, dated 28/3/1990 and announced by the General Assembly to form a delegation under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 3620, are submitted to the information. Name and Last Name Selection Environment It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully present the opening of the Parliament's research commission in accordance with Articles 104, 105, and the Articles 104, and 105, of our Constitution, in order to address the victims of the Sungurlu Dam, which is on the agenda within Kandıra district of Holieli Province, and to determine the situation in place. 13/1/2016 1) Fatma Kaplan Liberty [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Denizli]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Denizli]] [[İzmir]] 7) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] 8) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Samsun]] [[Janitor]] [[Scholarship]] [[Burdur]] [[Paddles]] 15) Bornt Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] 16) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] 17) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Mersin]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] 22) Gamze Akkuş Isgez [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Isparta]] 25) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] 27) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Scholarship]] The Sungurlu Dam, whose name was first brought up in 1954 from the village of Sungurlu in Kandıra district of Kopeeli, Istanbul, was declared a protected area of Akçaova and Teksen villages in the same district and was banned from zoning in 2005. So even a nail hasn't been allowed to crash in the area since 2005, and the villagers have been victimized for ten years, even forced into exile. Prohibited zoning ban has brought in the rant hunters and has been played into the ears by some undisclosed politicians in this region for a low price. The length of the dam construction business and the cheap sale of the land have created a compelling connection, and it has brought up claims that the dam construction business has been extended for this reason. On the other hand, the villages of Akçaova and Teksen for the Sungurlu Dam will be removed from their homelands, where there are about 5,000 people who reside in the villages of Akinci, Avdan, Agavel, Deleveli, Çalyer, Nasuhlar, Şadısungur, Karadivan, Hadjisheh, Tatarahmet, Çakmaks, Salatıkahler, Çança, Kubuzcu, Geil, and Oilers. Aside from the sociological aspect, the first-class farmland in the region along with the project will be flooded. In addition, the dam project does not comply with the Ministry's Law on Protection of Agriculture Lands. The project will destroy the Teksen forests, Aladağ and Nut Gardens, containing dozens of natural mushrooms. In addition to efficient agricultural areas, it has nearly 50,000 tonnes of forest produce, with 2,000 tonnes of nuts, 5,000 tons of milk, 10,000 tons of white meat and 60 tons of mushrooms produced annually. For over seven hundred years, the people who sit side by side will be torn apart from one another and banished without being shown another place. Although the Sungurlu Dam Project was said to have been built to meet Istanbul's water by 2046, Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu said on 24 November 2012 in his press release that "Istanbul will not have a water problem until 2071. Our sources have reached 1 billion 353 million cubic metres of water." His statement raises questions in the minds. In light of the above issues stated, we respectfully present the opening of the Parliament's research commission under Articles 104, 105, of our 98th and Interior Charter (Sungurlu Dam) in the Kandira district, under the terms of Articles 104, and 105. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Tourism is one of the major sectors, with its contribution to the country's economies and employment, with its added value. As tourism's share in the economy grows year after year, the sector is renovating itself and creating new areas. Tourism is closely related to history, culture and nature. In particular, museums, historical relics, findings of ancient civilizations are important in the development of tourism, the tourism activities of countries. Turkey is one of the most important countries in the world with its historical and cultural heritage. Archaeologists are the head of trade groups that serve to bring historical artifacts to the surface, to repair, to protect them. As it is known, archeology is a special area of expertise based on technical knowledge and experience. Archaeologists, however, do not have status and autonomy rights in exchange for the work they do in our country. In order to determine the problems of the archeology profession, to improve the rights of archaeologists, to establish the policies necessary for this profession to take its rightful place, we propose the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98, 104 and 105. With all due respect. [[Ankara]] [[Slap]] [[İzmir]] [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] 15) Gamze Akkuş İsgez [[İstanbul]] 16) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[Isparta]] 25) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] 26) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Janitor]] [[Samsun]] 29) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] Tourism is one of the major sectors with its contribution to the country's economies, its employment and added value. Tourism is closely related to history, culture and nature. In particular, museums, historical relics, findings of ancient civilizations are important in the development of tourism and in the denominator of tourism. Turkey is one of the most important countries in the world with its historical and cultural heritage. Archaeologists are the head of trade groups that serve to bring historical artifacts to light, to repair, to protect them. Those who have graduated from four years of education in the archaeological departments of universities receive the title of archaeologist. Archaeologists, removing ancient civilizations' structures, artifacts, remains into the light of the sun, putting these artifacts together, maintenance, repair, restoration, keeping records of these artifacts in good health. They take on an important task in the transfer of history and cultures to future generations. Archaeologists serving at the Ministry of Culture take part in excavations as observers, preparing reports that lay the basis for the efforts of the cultural and natural entities to establish a status area, identifying and keeping track of the cultural and natural assets that need to be protected, making decisions on protection and restorations for them. They control ancient cities, knitting places, museums and collectors. Archaeologists among the world's most important professions unfortunately don't appreciate the value they deserve as a professional group in our country. The fact that there is no professional room for this profession is one of the key indicators. Archaeologists work in universities, Culture Assets and Museums General Directorates, museums to protect cultural assets, protection, practice and audit offices within municipalities, private museums, General Directorate of the Foundations and the Institute for Research of Mines. Archaeologists have very narrow working spaces and are limited personnel in this area. It is the Ministry of Culture and Tourism that provides the most jobs. Turkey is a country with a very rich archaeological background that has cradled many civilisations. Archaeologists seek to offer to mankind with great sacrifice the knowledge that will shed light on world history by digging and research. Our country, which cradles civilization, has a rich heritage of history and culture. However, the profession of archeology does not see the proper value. The majority of those who choose this profession with great ideals lose all hope in the profession, without finding a job after graduation. According to the Association of Archaeologists, there are about 12,000 unemployed archaeologists in our country. Archaeologists need new work spaces where they can do their jobs. Archaeologists should be able to find work outside the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and universities. The government must find a solution as soon as possible, or it shouldn't be able to open so many universities and graduate students and find a way to create enough jobs for those graduates. The establishment of policies to determine and resolve the problems of the profession will contribute greatly to the preservation of both our history and cultural heritage and tourism. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Traffic accidents, one of our country's most important problems, have caused great loss of life, causing the injury of tens of thousands of our citizens and the damage expressed by billions of dollars. Between 2004 and November 2015, 49,551 people were killed in traffic accidents in our country in 11 years, 2 million 595,869 people were injured. The number of people injured in the 2004 traffic accidents was 136,437, while the number was 283,824 people in 2015 with an increase of over 100 per cent. According to data, 3,524 people were killed in the 2014 traffic accidents, 285,059 people were injured. In the first 11 months of 2015, 3,580 people were killed and 283,824 were injured in the accidents that took place in December-November 2015. Due to traffic accidents, we've almost lost a province. The results of the Turkish Statistical Agency (TİK) data and the head of the Traffic Safety Agency are striking, given the July 2014 Report. According to the report, the number of people killed in a car accident between 1970 and 15 was 234.812, while the number of people injured was 4,788,818. These figures show that despite all measures taken, traffic accidents have failed to prevent. According to 2014 data, Turkey ranks last in the number of cars per person among European countries. Turkey, however, is ranked third with the number of 168,512 accidents, and is ranked fifth in terms of those who lost their lives in the accidents. Unfortunately, we do not have healthy data on the problems and problems of our citizens who have become disabled due to accidents. In our country, the main axis of transportation policies is the land road. The road length of the road, which was implemented after the 1950s, increased by about 80 per cent from 1950 to 10 per cent, as a result of heavy transport policies. The natural result of these transport policies is that our country's transportation system is based on a single system, the road to land. According to our country's passenger transport share, the road share is 92 per cent and the railway share is 3%. At the same time, our country, surrounded by three seas, has almost no sea transport. The development of transport technologies and sea, air, railway transport has reduced traffic accidents in developed countries to minimum. In view of our country's heavy traffic balance sheet, it is clear that urgent measures must be taken. In order to assess our country's transport policies, infrastructure and alternatives, to determine the current situation, especially traffic education, to establish effective and lasting policies on preventing traffic accidents, to investigate the reasons for traffic accidents, and to take the necessary measures needed by the Constitution of our Constitution, Articles 98, Article 104 and 105. [[Ankara]] [[Janitor]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 7) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 12) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 20) Gamze Akkuş İsgez [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] [[Isparta]] 24) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Amasya]] [[Scholarship]] 27) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[Samsun]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Thursday (November 17th 2016), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On 17 November 2016, it was proposed that the parliamentary research proposal for the measures to be taken and the arrangements to be made for the resolution of these issues was read in the General Assembly on Thursday (November 17th 2016) by reading of Manisa MP and Group Deputy President Erkan AKCAY and Group Deputy Chair Erhan Usta, investigating the problems of the producers. I'm going to make a commitment to four members of parliament, in favor of the National Party of Action Group's proposal and against it. The first speaker in his favour is Erhan Usta, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0041par0434	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as the National Movement Party Group, we would like to ask that the problems of the nut manufacturers be discussed, the low price of nuts be discussed, and this matter be investigated by the Parliament, and I will speak with respect to the group proposal we have made in this framework, and I will speak with respect to all of you. Now, in fact, in July, even more than four months before that, we had proposed a group about it again, but unfortunately, that parliamentary investigation of the Justice and Development Party had been prevented by negative votes by the lawmakers. But, of course, it's not enough to stop it, are the nut manufacturers' problems solved? It's not solved. Problems have increased, as they have not been resolved from that day forward. Nuts are an important product for the Black Sea. It is the main source of livelihood and even the only source of livelihood in almost many cities. There's already tea, there's a nut. We've talked about the problems in the tea, there are serious problems; the tea maker is the victim, the tea smuggler, and he's on the run. It's not a healthy price creation. We're about to talk about nuts. The nut maker is also a victim. No tea, no nuts, problems around here. There's a potential for health, tourism, and no investment is being made to motivate it. There's no industry. What will these Black Sea people do, how will they live? We have to think of this as a state, as a nation, as Parliament. We can't ignore these problems. The problems of the Black Sea are growing. Now, back to nuts, Turkey produces 80 percent of the world's production. In exports, he exports to Turkey at the same rate. So we can't control the prices in the country or the prices in the country, the export prices, in the product that we're the only determinant in the world. Unfortunately, it's a product we have to export because there's no investment in it in the country. Only 10 percent of this is used as food inside, 5 percent is used as bread, and we have to export almost all of the rest. So when it's in the middle of this obligation, you see, how accurate can we do it, how much can we figure out export prices and domestic prices? There are serious problems here. I'll tell you what I'm going to say in the first place. The fact that the price of nuts is on the German Stock Exchange is not just a problem during the Justice and Development Party period. This has been a problem since the past. Of course, we'd expect the Justice and Development Party to solve this problem after a long period of power. As he couldn't solve this problem, during the AKP era, he gave us another problem about the AKP nuts. What's that? The prices in the country are now being set by foreigners. I mean, at least in the old days, we're looking at domestic prices, domestic producers, domestic merchants, our exporters, and who's setting the prices in the country today? Strangers spot them. One Italian company completely dominates the market. It's supposed to be called the free market. So it's all over the market. There's a variety of exporting companies, but they're all employees of that firm, the firm's companies. Now, in a place like this, let the price take place in the market. Our manufacturer has been left on his head and has been victimized. The country, of course, has a serious decline in foreign currency revenues, as the manufacturer was victimized. What are his other problems? I'm gonna open this up a little bit. Entrance costs are high. Of course, our time is short, and there's no way we can talk about all this in detail. Entrance costs are high. Fertilizer prices, pharmaceutical prices, collection costs are extremely high in nuts. Now, the acquisitions of support, unfortunately, don't solve the manufacturer's problems, it doesn't eliminate the small manufacturer's dependency on the merchant and the loan shark. So all the small manufacturers, especially the small manufacturer, are doomed to a loan shark. The fact that the free market doesn't work here -- as I've just expressed -- is the main problem. Now, there's a problem with the recluse. It's supposed to be a technical job, but it's being manipulated, if you will call it a complete deception. When the product is a little bit high, even if it's not very high, if the prices are going to be a little bit high, there's talk of too much recolte. There's 100% mistakes, years of predictions, recollaters, repulsors. No one's saying anything to them, brother, you said that last year, it didn't hold up. Why are you doing this? Is there some sort of manipulation here? The government doesn't go for it. That's what's victimizing the manufacturer, these recluse projections. And our suggestion for this is that these recollateral projections be made by the government, properly, properly. Otherwise, there's just a nut manufacturer stuck in a recluse, and there's a nut price. Now, you're looking from the other side, there's no way to store the nut manufacturer. So when there's no way to store it, the manufacturer has to take it out of his hands right away. So, again, the price has to stay low here, too, because the supply suddenly comes down to the nuts market. Another problem: sales of Alivre. Here, so to speak, some nut exporters are gambling. How's he gambling? They don't have nuts yet, they don't have a price, they're contracting import companies at certain prices when there's nothing. And if they're in a situation where they're hurting, some of these traders -- I'm talking about big traders -- they manipulate the market, they bring the prices down. Exporting companies aren't corporate. One person owns more than one company. Looks like there's a lot of them. They're all the same person. The exporter doesn't find markets. That's an interesting problem. Exporters don't find markets, importers come and find our exporters. Therefore, market diversification is not available. One firm gets a market sentence. Another factor in the price is aflatoxin. If prices like this go up a little bit, you have this harmful substance in your product. It's called aflatoxin. It's called aflatoxin. And no one's investigating whether this is the real thing or not, but the government is here, sadly, leaving the nut maker to his fate. Now, we know that efficiency is low. Efficiency is low. Why is efficiency low? Well, he's barely paying for it. No one's going to any point in renovating the nutlands, rehabilitating them. With the zeal of such matters, unfortunately, the problem is currently unresolved. Now, the first thing that needs to be done is this monopoly situation, this monopoly structure that sets the price in Turkey... look, there's one buyer, wherever you look, there's only one buyer, even though it looks like hundreds. And this buyer, unfortunately, is a stranger, whether he's local or not, it doesn't matter. This buyer sets the entire price, and then the government does nothing to solve it. This, as I have just stated, is a gift from the Justice and Development Party to the nut maker. I mean, at least in the past, Turkey had set the price itself, even though it couldn't determine the export price. Right now, unfortunately, we can't determine that for ourselves in the country. Now, of course, the fluctuation at this price, the instability at the price, it's not just the manufacturer, it's the tradesman and the industrialist. And the small tradesman buys nuts, nuts -- I'll throw them -- for $15, and then the nuts go down for $8, and these people get hurt, too. So we have to bring stability to nut prices. Now, I've stated that this warehouse matter is important. However, if licensed warehouses had been built, so the product would not suddenly land on the market, the product prices would continue to spread to this time, so the manufacturer would not be a victim. On the other hand, the citizen will be able to borrow from the bank by mortgageing his licensed stock, and he won't have to go to the loan shark. So, although you have the means to protect our manufacturer in this way, no steps are unfortunately taken regarding these licensed warehouses. Now, as a result, there is no other product for Turkey, which is the main source of livelihood for the Black Sea people, that will replace the nut that has both economic and social value, should be recognized and appreciated. It is imperative that a healthy nut policy be introduced that will ensure that the problems of the nut makers are resolved and that the victim gets his share of the national income. And what needs to be done is, first of all, I've just said, we need to stabilize the price. Price fluctuation actually prevents the industry from seeing its way, preventing the importer from seeing its way, as well as the exporter from seeing its way. We're going to have to find a mechanism to stabilize the price on this one. To do that, the state must seize the case, the most basic thing to do... is to make it clear in the world. For example, there's an almond market in America. He's established an institution that will regulate the market, set up rules, and interfere with the market when necessary, and here he's created a mechanism that will protect the manufacturer, the market, the industry, everyone, the whole country. That's what we have to do. I mean, what is the intervention agency going to do with the product, for example? Once, maybe he'll guarantee a price purchase, which he has to have. Second, when the product is too large, it has to be built to buy the product, to produce the product when the product is scarce. This structure must also be inspected. Can FYIF do that? FISKOBIRTH may be able to carry it out, but not as it is today, it must be funded. The AKP must withdraw its hand from FİSKOBIRLIK. That's the basis of all the problems. THE FESSION was highly politicalized during the AKP period. Entrance costs must be reduced, institutions to make recollateries independent. We've stated that licensed warehouses are essential. We must set up licensed warehouses. That's how the manufacturer gave the nut to the trustee, and we can actually get in the way of that through licensed storage. As I've just stated, guaranteeing a price purchase will be an important factor here. And finally, we need to attract new investors to use the nut in our own industry more. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0042par0460	Thank you, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0043par0461	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like a word in accordance with the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0042par0462	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0043par0465	Mr. President, thank you very much. There's something that needs to be known by our House and followed by the ruling party. Eight workers working as subcontractors on the Amasya Roads -- they are laid off for no reason. Then it is announced that 70 people will be hired. These guys are re-appropriating, but these eight people aren't being hired. When asked by the firm's officials, the company's official says: "We are very pleased with you, but the order came from a very high place. They investigate, they go, eventually, do not press us more than a Deputy Director, whose name is Kenan on the Amasian Highways. It is not possible for you to be involved in this work after becoming a member of this political and religious community. Now, when the country's political tensions and sectarian divisions are itching, will the ruling party remain silent, or will they interfere with the display of people's cults and political identities while playing with their bread? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0044par0468	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0045par0469	Mr. President, you can't ask him for such allegations. We don't know if it's true or not, he hasn't called for an answer. Let's find out what he's dealing with first.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0043par0470	Look, the reporters are sitting in the back.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0045par0471	This is what came to me, and I can't tell you right now, it's not the right approach.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0046par0475	Cemal Özturk, Giresun MP against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0047par0478	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the parliamentary motion given by the MHP Group in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Council of Turkey, in order to investigate the problems of the nut makers and determine the measures to be taken and the arrangements to be made. I salute the High Council. Yes, nuts are Turkey's most important agricultural product. The eastern Black Sea region of our country is a national product that is grown on the coastline, up to the Bosphorus of Istanbul. It's the best agricultural product we've ever had. In the world, no question, we're number one. Of course there's a lot of problems with nuts, the nut store has a problem. At the point where we're here today -- and in July, the research motion came up again, brought up by the MHP Group -- we continue to debate the nut. Dear lawmakers, I'm also a nut eater. We grew up with nuts, we spent our education, our entire childhood in nut gardens, and we came to these points with the money from nuts, praise be to God. It's very valuable to us because of the nuts, and it's a product that we always have to put on the agenda, but at the same time, I, in nuts, also made the General Directorate of FISKOBIRTY. So, what I have to say is very important. Now, in 2002, when the EC PARTY came to power, the price of nuts was 1.5 TL, with today's money, the market price. In fact, the government declared $1.5, but let's refresh our memory, today Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who was President of the EC PARTI on that day, when we came to power in Giresun Square, would not fall below 2 million euros -- but with today's money -- under 2 euros -- and then the AK PARTI came to power. When I became General Manager, the Treasury had 48 thousand tons of nuts found in the warehouses of the FISKOBIRKIK, which it had taken in the name of the Treasury. We put that nut up for sale. It was June 2003, but unfortunately we couldn't sell it for $1.6. So, when we're arguing in terms of price alone, I'll give you this example to tell you where we're coming from: the price of the nut that we couldn't sell for $1.5 in terms of that day is $1.5, the quality of Giresun this morning, the quality of what we call military quality is around $10.5, the market price of today's market price. But what's wrong? In September, Giresun's quality nut, which began at 11.5 TL, was up to 15.5 TL, and was brought down to around $11.5 today. The military's quality was also opened at 10.5 TL, and he saw 14.5 TL, and he fell back to those prices. The problem may seem to be from here, but we can't bring the issue of nuts to a point as long as we continue to argue only about the price-based debate every year. So, when we're discussing the nut, we have to consider the following four main elements: the customer, the merchant, the industrialist and the consumer. We're always having a private discussion. So, like I said, I'm glad, because the higher the prices, the better Turkey gets from it, the better our client gets from it. But the problem with nuts isn't just the price. We have to sell 70 percent of the nut to the world, 75 percent to the world, and from time to time, it even finds these 80 percent. We can only consume 20 percent of the nut in internal consumption. But when prices go up, we also have to know that in foreign countries we're sort of, indirectly encouraging nut production, and we're shifting consumers from nuts to other alternative products. So, yes, nuts have problems, but this problem is not new, it will continue. Not just in the nut industry, but in all sectors, there's a recession in the world right now in economies, and that's a nut job. I'd like to say that Turkey, like other products during the AK PARTI administrations, has been able to make three times as much income as four times as in the nuts. As a matter of fact, in 2002, the prices at about 92 cents are now over $3, even today, when we say it's the worst. It's the market prices. Yes, that's true, but by 2009, the AK PARTY governments have provided more than 5 billion euros from the budget to this year, in a way that we call price-based support after 2009. This year, a resource, such as 850 million in the Ministry of Agriculture budget, which will come in the coming days, will again be transferred to the nut supplier in 2017. Thus, the EC PARTY has always supported the nuts, not only through price, but also through fertilizer, through fertilizer, through diesel, through TARSIM, it continues to give all its support to agriculture, again, to the nut store. But the biggest problem with nuts is efficiency. Dear friends, we get together from time to time with fellow members of the Nut Zone, we evaluate this, but we have to increase efficiency in some way. Because especially in the East Black Sea region and especially in Giresun, the nut trees have aged, and our efficiency is nearly 70 or 75 kilograms per nut. High efficiency in the western region. In the western region, a family produces more than 10 tonnes of nuts on average, but this has dropped below a ton in Giresun. In that sense, when we think of the nut, of course, we have to have a nut policy in some country, and our government continues to work on it. As a matter of fact, there were three important decisions made by our Department of Agriculture last year. He put two of these decisions into effect, and there was a delay in the matter of licensed storage. The licensed stockpile of the Giresun Trade Exchange is 17,000 tons, and it's in operation in the coming days. I'll admit there's been some delay, but hopefully more permanent, better news about the nuts during the 2017 season will be announced by our Minister in the coming days. These days are temporary, and the AK PARTY governments will continue to be with the nut maker in this period and in the coming period. In that regard, fertilizer support, especially field-based support, will continue and continue to support TARSIM. The friend of the nut store is the AK PARTY government. In that respect, as soon as our coven opens the nut search, I don't know about that, but I'd like to say that the problems with nuts are temporary, that they're beezi. Prices go down, they go up, but in the end, the nuts are our traditional product, and we'll continue to produce nuts, and our government, the AK PARTY, will always support the nut store. In this regard, I leave the decision to investigate the House of Assembly, but for the moment, I say that our government is always behind the nut-crust, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0048par0491	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. In favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, Bkent Yener Bektasoglu, Giresun MP. Here you are, Mr. Bektasoglu.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0049par0495	Mr. President, I'm going to speak in favor of the National Movement Party's motion to investigate the nuts. I hope our talks please our nut maker. I sincerely wish that our decision in the House in the Nuts would be in our producer's favor. Yes, my dear Regents, we've just heard the speeches. Nuts, of course, are a national product of Turkey, a very important product. It's our only agricultural product of 49 agricultural products that generates 2.5 billion foreign currency per year. It's a very important agricultural product that deals directly with 502,000 producers, and also with 8 million populations. About the nut, of course, there's no way we can tell what we're saying here in ten minutes, our wishes, our demands. You will address both the largest population of Turkey and provide the largest foreign currency, where we will present the nut in ten minutes, which is not possible. But I'd like to point out some important points: nuts for the East Black Sea region, a sacred crown product that represents the sweat of the forehead, the light of the eye. Nuts are an important product, a national product, not just of the Black Sea, but of our entire country with a pupil. Look, it's very important, without the import contribution, directly, that our only agricultural product, purely bringing the country's biggest foreign currency, is nuts. I care a lot about that for her. Ferrero's company, unfortunately, has recently become a single company, which has been monopoly on nuts -- not breeding -- and has been monopolized by AKP. Imagine, a foreign firm became both buyers and sellers in Turkey; it plays the nut as it pleases, and of course, both our country and our producers suffer a great deal. We've lost a little market advantage in nuts around the world. You're going to be the biggest producer in the world, and you're going to lose your market advantage by certain events, by some interference, and we can't possibly accept that. However, this company imports 68 per cent of the Turkish nut from us, and now it collects nuts from its own factories and grocery stores, and exports them itself. Imagine, a foreign firm is both a buyer and a salesman, it's impossible to tolerate. This arrangement has brought the nuts down from 20 lira to 8-10 lira. My dear Cemal brother just said 10 or 11 lira nuts. Now that I know, they say it's 10 liras. It doesn't matter, it comes and goes between $10 and $11. That's not our manufacturer's right. We feel sorry for it. Isn't it a shame, isn't it a shame, isn't it a sin? Nuts are a product of hard geography, and it's also a sociological product. If it's not nuts... The Black Sea District, unfortunately, is a very migratory area. We don't have a single product, we don't have another source of income, it's a very important sociological phenomenon. What right do we have to waste Uncle Hassan's hard work, steal at least half of his income just so the Hanses can win? Hasan's making, Hans is winning. Give it a round of applause, it's important. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The only livelihood of 8 million producers living in 6 counties is a government intervention. I invite you to be the minister of the manufacturer, not Ferrero. There's no way we can tolerate this manipulation any longer. All you have to do is get the FESSION back online. This applies to all agricultural products. We need to get our co-operatives operational, not just for nuts, but for all agricultural products. At one point, they forced TMO to buy nuts. TMO knows wheat, doesn't know nuts. It's been a huge mess, an incredible mess. The man didn't see the nut, didn't recognize it, didn't know his garden, didn't know the nut; started buying nuts in the Black Sea, unfortunately, we experienced it. The guy puts plums in the nut, and they take the plum as nuts, so that's an adjustment, right? Where in the world has this been seen? Can Turkey go and, for example, determine the price of almonds in the United States, grapes in Italy, olives in the Mediterranean? This is very important to us, friends. What we're going to do is... we need to do this: I don't know what you gave these companies that set the price of nuts, but you've given them your word. I say that every chance I get, the nut is manipulated by this company, the manufacturer's sweat is exploited. As I have highlighted in our numerous proposals, all our conversations and statements, foreign firms are unfortunately reducing their nut prices by manipulating them. The truth was finally accepted by the MPs of your party. Recently, a file was presented to the Prime Minister in Afyon. We don't know what's in the file, but it's an important confession. And you finally agreed that the foreign sector is decisive in the nut market. Manipulation is a crime by law, we don't know who committed this crime, and you do. Why isn't the CDC questioning this? This needs to be investigated. I said nuts are a product that grows in difficult geographical conditions. In the eastern Black Sea region, from time to time, nuts are collected in my area, reaching 70 to 60 percent. Entrance costs -- my deputies just told me -- are really too much, our input costs. Today's prices can't save those costs, but since the AKP administration arrived, I have to admit that the black Sea nut maker's face has never smiled. In 14 years, I've been telling you this clearly and clearly, in the Black Sea, the face of the nut maker never smiled.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0050par0506	Bulent bhai, have mercy, have mercy! It went from $1.5 to $11.5.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0049par0507	One of the most important things about our nuts -- I don't hear Cemal -- is that we want product-based support, rather than field-based support. We are a country that produces at least one nut per acre in a country across Turkey; an average of 80 to 90 kilograms per acre, about 250-290 kilograms in Italy. We'd like to make sure that this is supported on the product. Another thing we've found is that our precious friends are interested in nuts: our nut areas are getting too old, and our yields are getting lower and lower. Our old nut gardens need to be slowly, slowly, with support, to be rehabilitated, and that needs to be ensured. In recent years, some changes in our region's geographical conditions have led to some reductions in the production of nuts. One of them is the HESS. Unfortunately, in the East Black Sea region, with an incredible HES policy of a thousand and 2,000, there wasn't enough evaporation in that valley, so the efficiency in our nuts started to drop. I care about that a lot. Nuts are our sweat, our eyelid; it's very important to us. Our manufacturer has every intention of supporting the nut. Recently, there's been an ash disorder that threatens our nut, or rather a fungus-like disorder. This has made our production very low. But I received a new report this morning that our Agricultural County Department had an important work to do, and I want to thank them for it. I'm guessing there's something useful that can prevent this ashing. Hopefully, they'll tell our citizens, our peasants, our manufacturers, and we'll have that covered. At the same time, we also have an offer: The land of the Black Sea is growing the most healthy, the most beautiful, the highest flavored Giresun region. This is world-class.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0051par0512	That's right.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0049par0513	I received confirmation from power. It's our wish, our desire, to put a price on this nut. I think the Giresun nut is actually our most valuable product in the geography, where it grows as flavor. I think that our old nut gardens must be rehabilitated with support as soon as possible, as soon as possible, at the beginning of the most important factors of low-period production of nuts in the East Black Sea. There must be a permanent, unchanging, right-wing management, production, consumption, trade-oriented nut policy, which includes rules that govern all areas from the garden to exports in Turkey, friends. On behalf of 8 million interested and 502,000 producers, I demand and care about this. And instead of Ferrero's company, which dominates the market today, we sincerely support the market as its main actor, don't we, Congressman?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0052par0518	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0049par0519	Thank you. Foreign capital should not be allowed to monopolize in nuts. Instead, our policies of business, employment, and the nut economy, which inspire local investors, must be implemented. In addition value in the high product -- about nuts -- Switzerland buys nuts from us, and 10 times as many of us make VATs from it. We, unfortunately, as nut makers, couldn't handle it. They're very important to our nut country, folks. If you come up with a bill on nuts, I'm asking you, without any import contributions, without any support... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a product that brings tattoos. I sincerely ask you to support such a product. I salute you all with love. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0053par0527	Thank you, Mr. Bektasoglu. Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul MP against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0054par0531	Ms. Tülay, we're waiting for a ten-minute nut talk.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0055par0532	Mr. President, dear MPs, first of all, I salute the General Assembly. We listened carefully to the MHP group proposal. We control the problems and problems of our nut makers, our very valuable farmers, and as a government, we have serious efforts to do what is necessary. Our very valuable Giresun MP has already expressed in detail what we've done, what we intend to do, all our sensitivity to our farmer. So, I don't think we need recipes for Arife because we have very sensitive issues on our agenda, a change in the Turkish Penal Code, and a draft law on the work is expected. So, with that thought and thought, I express my word against the group's proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0056par0536	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. I'd like to put the nationalist movement group's proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0057par0538	We do, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0058par0539	We'll take it.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0056par0540	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0058par0541	Sustained.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0059par0542	Sustained, sir. Sustained.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0056par0543	The proposal was not accepted.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0059par0544	How many did we lose?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0060par0545	How did it happen? Count it, sir. Count it.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0056par0546	The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 17/11/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. İstanbul MP Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi and his friends have submitted a parliamentary inquiry motion issued by Turkey on 12/10/2016 to determine the consequences of missing asylum seekers, kidnapped or deceived by terrorist organisations. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations Thursday (17/11/2016), and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal and against it, I promise four members of parliament. The first speaker in his favour is Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Whitebird Illustration.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0061par0559	Mr. President, I've been promised our research proposal on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. I salute your high council. We live in the days when hope becomes anger, faith becomes pain, friendship becomes hostility. From east to west, from north to south, we're witnessing battles and wars all around us. This dirty war that humanity is being pushed into is as much our future as it is ours, our children. Not just in our country, but all over the world, our children have become subjects of pain, violence, blood, and tears. Sadly, our children are learning not friendship, but hostility; they are learning our songs, not our songs, but our cries; they share not a warm loaf of bread, but tears; they don't share the glittery balloons in the sky, they see mortars, balls, bullets, death. What did the great master say, Nazim Hikmet? Let's give the world to the children, let them be satisfied for at least one day, let them learn about it. Dear Regents, today the world hosts a refugee under the age of 18 whose number is 50 million. Criminal gangs and human traffickers, especially terrorist organizations, turn these children into ruthless weapons. Look, one of the most burning examples of this was the terrorist attack on Gaziantep on August 20, 2016. A mother who found her son's body months later, a mother who had found the body of her son, Emine Ayhan, who had not yet been invented to comfort Emine. Dear Regents, you will remember that the attack on Gaziantep had been reported as a 12-14-year-old boy, but later the governor's office announced that he was a little older with a new explanation. Although we are accustomed to unsubstantiated statements from the state, it has reminded us that we are facing the most brutal face of terrorism, the threat of child warriors at any moment. However, the children's warriors, known to us by the Gaziantep attack, have been used for years in attacks on the Middle East that have bloodied the Middle East. It is no secret that ISIS, referred to as angry youths, raised mentally disabled children as suicide bombers in particular. In the camps in Syria and Iraq, these children are known to exist. Last March, a child carried out the attack that killed 65 people in a stadium in Baghdad. In the same way, the Taliban teach children between the ages of 6 and 8 years of training to be live bombs, as well as weapons. ISIS militants age 10 to 13, we can watch videos on social media where they execute Syrians in what they call a game of hide-and-seek for children between the ages of 10 and 13. Now, are these kids killers or victims? We can't turn our backs on these facts by saying that Gaziantep was not the perpetrator of the attack. Dear Regents, we have to accept that children who make up half the population of refugees are in grave danger. Afghan children could fall into the network of terrorist organizations at any moment. If we ignore these children, if we don't hear them and ignore them, it's quite possible that we will encounter the same kind of attacks that turned the Middle East into a pool of blood. They prefer orphans, unregistered refugees who lost their parents in combat, children who had to live on the street. These children are either abducted in camps or sold to terrorist organizations in exchange for a ticket to hope by their families, suffering from poverty and misery. Refugee children are now a vast ocean, fed by organized crime gangs and human traffickers. Dear friends, more than half a million children have fallen into the hands of human traffickers when they wanted to go to Europe illegally from 2015 to today. Look, given how much more than 3,000 euros an immigrant pays for a trip to hope, we'll find out what a horrible market we're facing. Children in this filthy human stock market are forced to pay a debt they'll never be able to pay. It makes it easier for them to be sexually abused, forced to work, eventually dragged into crime. And let's face it, our country is right in the middle of this trade route. Dear Regents, take a good look at this photograph I'm holding in my hand. This is a photo of five - year - old Syrian Suad (who sold handkerchiefs on the side of the road). The dirt that paints his innocent face black is, in fact, the blinding conscience of mankind. It is man's insatiable ambition that condemns him to these cold sidewalks. Because, as Nazim said, the world is unjust, the child, the world is tyrannical. • Little Suad, who strives to survive in the midst of all this injustice and tyranny, is one of the lucky ones. There's a lot of drama going on in our cities that we don't know his name, his guess, his story. None of us know the fate of some 150,000 children who have come to our country from Syria and have been declared unregistered. We don't know if they're being raised as live bombs in the hands of terrorist organizations or if they're victims of organ mafia. The question of what happened to these children should concern all of us. Come, dear friends, let's not stand by this injustice, because if we tolerate this injustice, these children who live on the street, most of them orphans, will not even be able to pass on statistics when they die. Let's not let these kids be just a number in the unclaimed cemetery. Let us not forget that what happened to Suad today may happen to our children tomorrow. Dear Regents, as in many matters, we are not able to use the control mechanisms in terms of refugee children, and we are being answered for either the questions we ask are not being answered or the period is being fulfilled. And that makes it impossible to access healthy data. Look, last February, I asked the fate of many Syrian and Afghans, hundreds of thousands of refugee children who disappeared in our country, whether they fell into the hands of terrorist organizations or the body mafia, and I didn't get an answer. These families are concerned that their children will be kidnapped by terrorist organizations that have turned Turkey into a bloodbath. Their fear is not limited to terrorist organizations, but the organ mafia is just as dangerous as terrorist organizations because the easiest way to get the money to go to Europe is through illegal organ trafficking. Since a Syrian who sold his kidney for an average of a thousand dollars is able to live for two months at the most, eventually the Aegean and Mediterranean are forced to cross illegal roads, and unfortunately, the journey that begins with the prospect of a new life also results in the bodies of our children on the shore. Dear Regents, at this point in which we have arrived, are there any missing refugee children trained to act in Turkey? To leave the question unanswered is to be part of the possible killings. After the attack on Gaziantep on August 20th, I used my right to get information, and interestingly enough, I got an answer this time. First, I learned that the Ministry of Interior distributes 2,775 brochures so that children don't go missing; then I also learned that there are illegal organ trafficking in sub-stair hospitals in Turkey. Look, it's important, and the answer that came up is that there was no record of organ, tissue grafts and trafficking in illegal hospitals referred to as "Merdiven Six"; in 2016, research on seven known criminal reports found no evidence of crime or crime, an organ that occurred in 2016, had been processed in the case of two individuals in the tissue trade. Now you may be a little confused. In the same sentence, the ministry first acknowledges the existence of sub-stairs of illegal hospitals, and then says there is no illegal organ trafficking in these hospitals. The organ says it is finally doing legal action on two people due to tissue trafficking. Now, tell me, are there or are there no illegal hospitals under the stairs, organ trafficking or not? Dear Regents, those who have denied the existence of sub-stair hospitals where militants have been treated for years have made a sincere confession with this answer. I thank them. Now we want this confession to be carried out and we want to know where these hospitals are. On the other hand, this is not a confession. We ask that those who make this statement, which is incompatible with the seriousness of the state, resign, and we ask that the people in these hospitals be shared with the public who are being treated. Yeah, I think we're all responsible for who's fooling refugee children, how they are.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0062par0571	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Whitebird Illustration, please complete your statement.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0061par0572	Remember, getting these kids out of the gutter before politics is our conscientious responsibility to humanity. I hereby ask that my motion be accepted, and salute your supreme Court.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0062par0575	Thank you, Mr. Whitebird Illustration. Fatma Benli, İstanbul MP against the Republican People's Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Benli.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0063par0579	Thank you, Mr. President. I've made a commitment to a motion given by the Republican People's Party regarding the fate of the missing children, but first of all, any work involving children is very valuable to us. At this point, on this occasion, I would like to express my gratitude for being on the council bench, because it is not just, verbally, the children are our future. It is not an emotional expression that we will express; each of them, but each of them, under whatever circumstances, whatever position they may be, deserve to do a separate study. On this occasion, I am congratulating 51 of our citizens who died in an explosion of blood on the street wedding by using the name Islam, which caused the greatest harm to Islam. As you know, there were 69 injured that day, and I wish them a cure. Now, DAEŞ, as in this example, is not only using children; it is a fact that we all know that DAEŞ can only deceive people who have very different properties in the world, using social media alone, attract them to conflict zones, bring them to Iraq or Syria. In fact, Turkey has been doing a special study to fight DAEŞ. It has established 29 risk analysis centres; it has made special efforts to prevent 52,000 people from coming to Turkey and not become foreign terrorist fighters in Syria and Iraq. More than 3,000 people, about 4,000 people, 98 different countries, including Japan, or Australia, are even among them, who have come to support terrorism. This is also a fine example of how much effort is needed to be made in the fight against DAEŞ. This weekend we attended a meeting on the role of Parliamentaries in Anti-Terrorism in Malta. To me, it was a very important statement from the Iraqi parliamentary speaker, because there were MPs from 24 different countries, and he said: "I don't know the country of most of the MPs here. People come to my country from countries I've never even heard of, and they kill my people; they kill women, children, young people. Therefore, I stress specifically that it is our responsibility to help all of us in the fight against terrorism. But, I think, since research proposals are being prepared very quickly, as forgotten, not only DAESS, but also the PKK and the NYD are using children in terrorist activities. It's a matter that many international organisations have found, unfortunately, that the PKK has smuggled children into the mountains or encouraged them to use their brains, to use them in acts of violence, to use them in their hands. You know, using child warriors is actually a crime of humanity. Therefore, although the PKK opposes this, although it states that this is not happening, many photographs taken in Kandil (Kandil) or the statements of the families who have been kidnapped reveal this fact. The PYD is no different, and PYD is abducting 12-year-olds. At this point, Turkey is already doing a lot of work to prevent all terrorist organisations from taking advantage of children, especially the Syrians, without any discrimination. Because there are nearly 3 million Syrian refugees in our country, and 54 percent of them are children. We've already passed a special law in 2014 because there should be a special study for children, and in 2015 we've managed to get them educated at the Ministry of National Education, and we've done a lot of work to prevent terrorist organizations and the abuses that are at stake. Of course, since this was not just a burden that could be left on the Family Ministry, we had the Ministry of Education work with the Immigration Administration, and we had other institutions, such as the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, work co-ordinated. You know, part of the Syrian children in Turkey, some of the children under the age of 18, are not with their families. Therefore, a special study was carried out for children who were not accompanied by an adult. In fact, in 2015, they were put into a general order to establish the standard, where they were under special control of the state, where they would be placed in special temporary support centres, where they would be protected from all kinds of evil. Is that enough? Of course not, but compared with the whole world, it is impossible to say that Turkey has not done a special work for Syrian children in particular. Now, although there are many, many fewer refugees in Europe than in Turkey, the number of missing children in Europe is unfortunately reaching very serious numbers. While they're holding refugees behind walls or behind fences, they don't even realize how those kids ended up in the hands of criminal organizations. Even the report of the head of the Criminal Office in Germany shows that the number of children missing in Germany in one year was 8.991. The figures in Turkey are not even 1%. But it doesn't matter to us, even if there's a child involved, if there's a risk of being abused by a single child despite all the work that's been done, if we have to deal with terrorist organizations or with any criminal organization, we have to do it. I believe that's the opinion of all the MPs here, in fact, in the past few months, in 2016, with the support of all the parties, the Commission for the Protection of Child Inflict is a sign of that. In its recent report, the Anti-Education Commission has expressed concrete measures against any abuse of children, against any possible abuse. I hope that all parties will be there to support the outcome proposals of the Commission for the prevention of child abuse, just as we've all decided to build it together. And since the Commission for the Protection of Child Instruction has expressed the necessary measures for the children who have been abused by the PKK, the People's Rights Committee or other terrorist organisations, and has been taken into consideration by the Parliament's motion to investigate the missing children again adopted by Parliament in the past years, and the results of this research proposal are still being implemented, and especially since the Human Rights Review Commission, which I am acting as Vice President, has a subcommittee of the Refugee Rights Subcommittee from 2015; while there is a current commission, all lawmakers, with the support of all parties, are also not required to establish a new commission. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0064par0592	Thank you, Mr. Benli. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0065par0594	Thank you, Mr. President. We listened to Mr. Fatma Benli very carefully yesterday, but it is unthinkable to boast that only 300,000 of his ministers -- 800,000 Syrian children -- were educated, 500,000 children were not able to touch for education, while they were told there were 150,000 unregistered children in Turkey and that there were more than 8,000 children in Germany. In addition, during a similar speech before the House went on vacation, he was told torture claims about Turkish prisons and went on to do so on behalf of all of us so that we can say that these claims are not true. Speaking of which, as a person who has not done his duty to investigate these allegations in an entire summer and until now, we now agree that four parties are the same. At the point he says, "This opinion does not meet the opinion of our party." Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0066par0598	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0067par0599	Is it possible for me to take your word for it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0066par0600	Here, I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Benli.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0067par0601	First of all, I didn't say I was proud of Turkey by comparing the number in Germany with Turkey. Just considering the whole world's facts, I have expressed that Turkey's work on refugees is quite significant, but even one missing child is very important to us. At this point, if we still have Syrian or other children who can't be involved in the education system, I think it's a four-party mission within the Parliament, let me first say that. The second issue is that the investigation of torture claims in prisons is part of the prison subcommittee's mandate, and the prison subcommittee is working on it. But as I'd like to emphasize again and again, the allegations are not in prisons, but in detention centers, or the abuse of those who took them on the night of the coup on July 15th. Beyond that, I find it unfair to Turkey that the prisons in Turkey are systematically or in fact violated by any prison administration, that there is torture or abuse.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0066par0603	Thank you, Mr. Benli.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0068par0604	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0066par0605	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0068par0606	Mr. President, we can request reports, and friends are warning us. The 5,000 digits in Turkey are below the 8,000 digits in Germany. However, there are 150,000 unregistered children in Turkey who have no access to 500,000 educations. The other issue: the prison commission, the members of the subcommittee of the prison prisons, has repeatedly expressed it. All the prisons in Turkey have allegations of abuse and torture. I have to believe that doesn't reflect the truth. You're in charge for this. I'll tell you about the Type T Prison in Manisa in the first place, but there are claims from Sincan to Silivri. Here's one of the people who own these allegations. Let's go, let's study. They say, "We're not going." You say, "We're not going." Then go back with a report that will make our faces whiten. What are you afraid of?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0066par0609	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0069par0610	Mr. President... Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement about my commission.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0066par0612	There is no such procedure, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0070par0613	I asked Fatma directly.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0069par0614	But there is a charge, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0066par0615	Sir?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0069par0616	There is a charge that we, the commissioner, did not go to investigate torture claims in prison intentionally and willingly.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0071par0617	Let's give it a minute according to 60, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0072par0618	What's that got to do with you?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0073par0619	Mr. Metiner, now, when you first stood up, you said: I want to explain. We have no such procedure. If there's bullying, if you express it, if you tell me what sentences you're being bullied with, I'll consider it.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0074par0620	I just did.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0073par0621	I'll get the transcripts, I'll see, Mr. Metiner, I'll evaluate them, if there's a statement like that...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0074par0622	I object, Mr. President, that you will not allow me to explain for a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0073par0623	Thank you. You can condemn it, of course you have that kind of freedom.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0075par0625	He doesn't have a straight line, he's making a scene!
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0073par0626	In favour of the Republican People's Party Group proposal, Deniz Depboylu, Aydın MP. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0076par0629	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Nationalist Movement Party Group in favour of the motion to investigate the fate of the missing refugee children, given the fact that the Republican People's Party has been accused of crimes by ISIS. Before I begin my speech, I salute you and the great Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, childhood is a special and sensitive period in which the healthy personality structure of individuals who will be the future of society is laid down. The foundations of a healthy and developed society are possible with the presence of carefully trained individuals. Therefore, anyone who dreams of a healthy, peaceful, long - lasting society is responsible for making the best of the development of children. In order for children to develop well, they must live in a safe environment, protected by the state. Crimes against children and child neglect cause many children to suffer physical and mental trauma. Today, there are still children who have been given the right to education, who are unable to continue their education. Children's children still can't be prevented from getting married at an early age. Children are abused by adults who have not stopped child labor, who benefit from legal loopholes. Children are subjected to ideological and political abuse of illegal braids and are even driven to crime. On behalf of my nationalist movement group, I'd like to remind you of our research proposal for missing children on 6/12/2015. Unfortunately, with the Justice and Development Party vote, our motion to investigate was rejected at that time. And I'd like to remind you again a little bit of the information I gave you at the time. If we look at the statistics on the missing children, unfortunately, we find that there is a serious lack of caution and negligence in our country concerning the safety of our children. There are many children who have ever been lost and have not been found. According to data from the Turkish Statistical Agency 2008-2011, the number of missing children is more than 27,000. Again, between 2008-12, a total of 40,220 reported children missing, and in the same year 5,724 children were found. According to the Home Office's data, this number is 15,900, and this number of child casualties have been reported. According to the Association of Lost Families, the number of casualties is 30,000. According to data provided by the Turkish Statistical Agency in 2012, the year of the most children's missing persons report has been accepted, and unfortunately, the number of children present is much less than the missing children. There's also a missing persons report to the Police Department. In 2008, this application was 4,517, and in 2012 it was 12,474. That means 123% increased from 2008 to 2012. Again, there's data from the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. This number was 8,081 in 2010, and 18,696 in 2014. It's a little confusing, Congressman. Most of these numbers are government agencies, each of them giving a separate number, and none of them adding up. According to the information presented, there are no children present, according to the information provided by the Ministry of the Family. When we look at the findings, whether they've been found or not, it's clear that the child's loss has increased. Today we have a serious problem with our children. Children are kidnapped by crime and terror organizations, even being used as live bombs. However, we know that the problems of our children who have been framed for very different reasons are not new, and the problem is growing. Dear lawmakers, while we have not yet learned the number and fate of our missing children, there is another problem today, the children of refugee families who have taken refuge in our country are disappearing. As you can appreciate, our problems and responsibilities have increased with the wave of migration after the crisis in Syria. Turkish Public Health Association Vice President Mehmet Ali Torunoglu made a statement in the subcommittee working on the issue. The number of Syrians registered in Turkey is 2 million 753,000. He informed us that 177,000 Syrian babies were born from 2011 until the end of September 2016. Again, with 300,000 foreigners from other countries, the number of asylum seekers in Turkey has risen to 3 million. According to Migration Administration data, the number of children between 0 and 19 years old is 1,336k in our country. These children are our responsibility, these children are our trust. If the refugee children are disappearing like our children, we need to stop and evaluate the situation and plan what we're going to do. Every child who disappears is a victim of abuse, and his life is in danger. We have information that most of the children have been kidnapped by gangs and terrorist organizations for use. These children are subjected to crime, to crime. In research, we have also found that terrorist organizations use children and young people between the ages of 14 and 25 as human resources. There are certain reasons why children should be used in acts such as demonstrations and walks. Again, there are different reasons for using children for different crimes. To think about what these reasons might be, one is that children do not have a criminal license; the other is that children do not draw suspicion from an adult; the fact that children are used for the desired purpose is easier for adults; the fact that security forces cannot use force against children makes children a center of attraction to be used by the terrorist organization. All of our children and women are fighting together by illegal structures. The demonstration, the expression, is an important factor here. Given all these reasons, it's not just ISIS, it's the PKK and other terrorist organizations at first. Again, if we remember July 15th, the 15th of July, when the attack was carried out, we're hearing from the confessors today how the people who carried out the attack were raised in private homes, with the allegations of better education, surveillance and protection in their childhood, or children under their own persuasion. It is called the religious, political and ideological abuse of children. We need to remember that the fact that the children were involved in the crime is because they were not protected and neglected in their environment. Remember, the power of a state is measured by how much it takes to take care of children under its care. Because children are the security of the nation, the security of the state. And here we have the greatest task. It is not possible to eliminate the daily policies that our children face or the risks they face. We need to have a national children's policy to resolve or prevent potential risks and problems, and follow them in the process of long-term planning and implementation. We, the National Movement Party, will vote in favor of the motion. The motion is valuable, but the establishment of a research commission that is trying to solve all problems for limited time is of course important, but it's not enough, because we know that reports of research commissions are being put on the shelf after a while, unfortunately, it doesn't have the proper value. Therefore, the ongoing child rights commission that will be formed is of great importance in the process of ensuring that these works be carried out in a planned and disciplined manner and preparing the infrastructure of the policies to be developed. Today -- as I said -- we, the National Movement Party, will vote in favor of this motion, but my wish is that the Republican People's Party has made a motion to establish a permanent children's commission. So, as the National Movement Party, we submitted this motion to the Speaker of Parliament. Now, I expect the Justice and Development Party to propose a law to set up a permanent children's rights commission as soon as possible.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0077par0640	The Commission for Research on Child Insultration already has a proposal in that sense.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0076par0641	The abuse commission will suffice...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0077par0642	I'm saying he already has a suggestion.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0076par0643	Yeah, you're right, that's his first suggestion. That's why I wish at the most that this permanent commission be established, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0078par0646	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul MP against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0079par0649	Mr. President, I have been promised against the Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I salute all speakers who pass on valuable information from this bench. First, I have to say: Ibn Haldun. He says that geography is a destiny. Unfortunately for Syrian children, it takes serious work to act together, not to have a destiny for refugee children, not to have pain and tears, and to find special solutions together. At the latest, the effort and suggestion made together by the Children's Inflicted Commission to build a permanent structure on child rights, to form a commission is one of the most valuable of these topics. But I must point out that, especially in the days of the AK PARTI governments, under the title of the children's service, what we did under the name of the children's services, as with our children's children, we work in the same seriousness, with the same sensitivity, for our brothers who have taken refuge in our country from that region. Look, I just got to the camps in that area, and I'm here. I went to Reyhanlı, and in Reyhanlı, we desired to see the work of the Orphan Life Center in that region in place, along with 16 of our MPs. He is also an international institution with the IHH, followed by the AFAD, which is the support of our government. Can you imagine what we're trying to do to 950 children, 950 orphans, children who don't have parents, in villa-style houses, like we've shown in those children's homes, love houses, children's websites? And we're trying to spend all the resources we can afford for them. Just Hatay Reyhan? In that program we went to last week -- especially I say that we were in the region with our esteemed representatives -- Gaziantep, followed by another church, where the population of the church is refugees and the number of asylum seekers there is a province of over 120,000 refugees with a population of 90 thousand. So there really is a serious burden in the region, and there is a need for structures that can be resolved by hand. Yes, the problem of missing asylum seekers is that, as stated, the terrorist organization, the low-down and treacherous PKK, the DAES, the PYD, the YPG, all terrorist organizations in that region can, of course, exploit the project as it is expressed here. So in this sense, we need to do our part, not just with our government, not just with our government, but with NGOs, with international organisations, that's one. Second: We look at numbers, and we can see that over 3 million refugees have more than 54 per cent children and young people in a refugee zone, and when we accept this presence, our definitions of duty and responsibility are much greater. That's why it's so important. Again, the child's superior interest is the first item in all our work. The Department of Children's Services, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which has been seen in different units by 2011, is under the General Directorate of Child Services. But working with the Ministry of Family and Social Policy alone is not enough in the issue of refugees and refugees, but also the Ministry of National Education, the AFAD of the Prime Minister, as we call it, is being held hand-to-hand with all units, which will continue to be done more meticulously and more selflessly. I'd like to express a feeling. When I go to those camps, when I see the attention and interest in those orphanages, the way those children look at Turkey, the way that each of those families safely and safely leave their children to the institutions of our state, and feel that trust, you say, "Yes," and the importance of our responsibilities, both in numbers and in future, are far greater. And when we look at the numbers, these studies are remarkable. Look, 12 billion dollars is just a total amount of help for our brothers and sisters under temporary protection. But on the one hand, 12 billion dollars, you can see that international organisations are too small, too small to express, when we look at this number of work and burdens on this issue. So, the government of the Republic of Turkey is very sensitive about this, just like we can show all the sensitivity we've made here in the Department of Child Services about our orphaned children. When I went to that camp in Reyhan, I had this feeling that, again, when I saw that structure in the Church, in Gaziantep, I specifically stated that more than one third of over 3 million refugees have been concentrated in these five provinces. So our sensitivity is very valuable, and the work from now on is very valuable. I wanted to underline this carefully. Then, the title of education expressed by the Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Special, is of great value. I care about that. Among the numbers that have been overlooked in this educational title, you can see that some of the Syrian children are out of school. Here, there are a thousand children. It's called. There are numbers on the official record that show in education. Thus, by the time they returned to Turkey and Syria, the education of those children was of great value to their country, to their country, when they returned to Turkey and to their country. Therefore, state protection, the number lost in Europe, I don't want to enter them. There are numbers pointed to by our Istanbul MP, Mr. Benli. With the very important details prepared by the Children's Inflicted Commission on this matter, it is very valuable that by working very beautifully and meticulously, Mr. Yilmaz junc's presidency, those report results, which have been worked with all of our valued political parties, his law-related chapters, that we may be able to take out the legislation together, that those involved in the regulations and the generalty can be taken out at this table, and that surveillance can be done in the relevant ministries. With these feelings and thoughts, I declare myself against the Republican People's Party group proposal.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0080par0657	Oh, you talk so good...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0079par0658	But on the other hand, I sincerely believe that it is also important to work on the legal arrangement of the Penal Code, which is to be carried out today, and that we, together with all our MPs, will be able to complete this work, this legal work today.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0080par0659	You spoke so well, we thought you'd give it to me.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0079par0660	Sometimes it's very different to be in opposition and to be in charge, Mr. Special. We agree with your sensitivity in this matter. Your sensitivity in this regard is the same for our children, the state of the Republic of Turkey, all refugees, asylum seekers, all children.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0080par0661	I thought you were going to vote.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0079par0662	The numbers in all of their institutions are clear and clear. I would like to thank our esteemed Prime Minister, our esteemed Minister, and all of his precious presence in the relevant ministries, and I would like to thank you, and I wish you good work, and I wish you well. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0081par0665	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0082par0667	Mr. President, sir, I'm not...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0081par0668	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0082par0669	In fact, Mr. Boiler has made a few attempts to taunt me by calling my name a few times, but I'd like a brief word, sir, not to take the time.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0081par0670	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone. Mr. Boiler actually uses a very careful language.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0082par0672	Sir, I've already found a lot of them in place. For the first time, the ruling party participated in the findings made by the opposition party, said it was very important, that the matter needed to be investigated, that they would vote for the permanent commission, that they would vote yes, and then things would happen between power and opposition. There's a difference between opposition and power responsibility. He called us a reference. The obligation to vote no is probably the most important sign for that party that they will soon experience opposition because they correctly identify such an important issue and are still in power.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0081par0674	Well, thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Boiler, I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0083par0677	Mr. President, the Children's Invasion Commission has just been convened. This Commission issued a very valuable Commission report with all very valuable lawmakers, both with ruling and opposition lawmakers. As I've just expressed from the bench, the continuation of this report, the pursuit of it, the relevant legal arrangements, the study. So I don't think a second study is necessary. And I thank all my friends for their valuable contributions to this commission.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0081par0678	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, Mr. Mehmet Metiner had just made a request. I said I'd get the warrant and evaluate it. I've got the report. In the speech of Mr. Metiner, Mr. Free Special (Secretary Commission), which Mr. Metiner has given the grounds for his request for a statement for bullying, we refer to the prison commission as "Go to the Cezaevi Commission." But you say, "We will not go." There is a sentence called "We will not go." I believe Mr. Metiner considered it a taunt because of the word "We will not go." If Mr. Metiner is here, I'll make a promise to him for bullying under Article 69, but I believe Mr. Metiner is not here. I'd like to present this information to the General Assembly once again: Members of parliament, Article 69 of the Interior Charter gives MPs a right with the right to explain, which is, the first joke of the article is as follows: The government, the commission, the political party group or lawmakers, can and will respond to a different opinion, which has been challenged or suggested. In this framework, lawmakers -- if you've paid attention -- or the group's deputy presidents, when they demand a statement for bullying, state the reason for bullying; if they do not state that reason, I ask them as acting Speaker of Parliament: ▪ Why do you want to speak? In what sentence did he taunt you? I have to ask, this should be written down. But other than that, our lawmakers can make a statement by stating that they have a very short statement according to Article 60 of the Civil Code. In the event of such a request, the right of discretion to meet the requirements belongs to the Speaker of Parliament. For example, Mr. Kaynarca had just opened his microphone in his place, meaning he was demanding a word based on the 60th article, so he turned on his microphone. In a dialogue, of course, I have to use that appreciation to make a promise. I just want to make a statement. If an MP stands up and asks for a word, there's no way that I can respond to that in any way because of the Civil Code, and I'm offering it to you once again. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 17/11/2016 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President In the absence of 48 hours of the 438 benchmarked Bill of Law, which has been distributed, the agenda is to take the 205, 340, 39, 250, and 302 lines of Laws in order of 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 · Global Voices In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code of 438 rows, it is considered the basic law, and its sections are in the following pages; It's recommended. I will promise four members of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal and a total of four members of parliament against it. The first speaker in his favour is Mehmet Akif Yilmaz, Kobeeli MP. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0084par0699	Mr. President, I've been promised that our AK PARTY group, the group that determines the working order of our Parliament. I hereby salute our great coven and our beloved nation. In this proposal, we have some changes to our working arrangement, to the law proposals and plans that we will discuss regarding the functioning of our Parliament. We're moving the Penal Code on these to the 1st place of the Law on Changes in Some Laws. We'll start seeing each other today. Our MPs know that this law contains important regulations. In particular, new regulations in terms of child abuse, sexual abuse, crime and punishment balance will be significantly increased in terms of deterrentism, and, hopefully, today, after this proposal, we will begin to discuss our law, our bill. Next week, the Law on Organizations and Missions of the Ministry of National Education is in the 2nd order, and we will see each other next week. After that, our Sunei Property Law Design will come, and agreements on Economic and Trade Technical Co-operation Agreements between the State of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Benin were ranked, and the group was presented in this order to our great Parliament. Our proposal includes these. I look forward to the support of our House on this matter, and I salute and salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0085par0705	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Erkan Aydın is a member of the Bureau of Justice and Development Group against the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0086par0709	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have received a pledge from the Justice and Development Party, which was last-minute, written and published last night at 18.23pm, that the group should actually come to Parliament 48 hours later. Actually, you made a different decision a week ago, but I think there's something urgent, and this got caught in the middle.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0087par0712	There's a Supreme Court deadline, that's why.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0086par0713	So, okay. In fact, it also makes sense to get caught up in something that's so important. As we look at it, we are going through a very difficult corner in Turkey, both in domestic policy and in foreign policy and in economics. Economic data is getting worse. The latest information coming in today is increasing rapidly, as well as their victims. We're also thinking that in the 2010 KPSS exam, you'll be able to explain from here, of course, six years from now, how there are a lot of victims and new documents and information that have reached today, the people who won that day, the people who have earned it, the people who have earned it, the people who have earned it, the people who have earned it, will be paid for it. On the other hand, Cyprus talks continue in Mont Cape, Switzerland, quietly. When you look at it, the Turkish side and the Greek side are in a meeting, and they will be reunited shortly. The Greek Parliament is discussing these talks in its own parliament, where Turkey is a garanteur state, and Britain is speaking, but only Turkey, the Republic of Turkey's Parliament doesn't know about it. When we look at it, the Foreign Minister is silent, the Prime Minister is silent, the President is silent, and Parliament here is unaware. What's going on in there? In fact, we all think it's our right to know. At least we'd appreciate it if the Foreign Minister would come and explain to us what happened in Cyprus during a closed session or an open session. Is Cyprus to be sacrificed to Cypriot policy in such intensity? Is that what they're talking about in there, behind closed doors? When you look at it, it's not hard to see that the Syrian issue, the northern Iraq issue, the Cyprus issue, all the interests of sovereign forces -- the rich natural gas deposits there -- and a number of imperialist dreams here. In fact, everyone wants peace there. When asked, the ruling party might say: "The Cypriot people want peace." Well, the precondition for peace is that the people there want peace. Let's give it to him, let's get rid of him. Turkish Cypriot President Mustafa Akincı says that as he agreed to go below 30 per cent of the Turkish Cypriot side -- based on information from the gay side that came to me -- information is leaking. I mean, there's something like we've lost this issue in the first place. They say: "Let the beautiful yurt become a federal canton, where both Turks and Greeks live." Let the watermelon be given federal or private status and ensure territorial integrity here. Where is it we call the Karpaz? When you look at the map, it is strategically important for both Jordan and Israel and Turkey to be seen, and for our Anatolian to be seen as the key to its outer door for hundreds of years. In fact, as Menderes once said, we didn't take Cyprus, but we didn't. It'll be said, we'll all look at it together at the end of this. Also, there are a lot of Turkish citizens living there, trading, processing. Shall we put them on board and send them back to the port of Mersin? There'd better be an explanation for all of this. Gene, in 1974, both our prime minister and our president, Bulent Ecevit, all of whom were deceased and deceased Erbakan, all began the movement of peace and stopped the bloodshed and brought peace, but yesterday, on the anniversary of the founding of Cyprus, I also condemn the disrespect of the late Ecevit, Mrs. Rahsan Ecevit. What's going on in the economy when all this is happening? According to the latest data, the growth forecast is down by 3 per cent, inflation is increasing by 8 per cent, unemployment is increasing rapidly, and Turkish lira is rapidly losing value in the face of foreign currencies, especially in the face of dollars. Of course, you're not supposed to view the economy as just data, you have to look at it as a whole. Your external political moves can't be kept inside as a result of antidemocratic moves, what was done to the Republican newspaper, the imprisonment of journalists and writers, the appointment of trustees to companies, and the other EU (EU) as a result of setting the people outside, so it's damaging the sharp vinegar cube. At this point, the private sector is rapidly entering into debt shortages, debt shortages, and in a place where it can't turn itself around, we say, hopefully, there's hope of getting out. How do we get out? As we look at it, from the founding of the republic to 2002, in 80 years, Turkey's debt is 257 billion. From 2002 to today, it is increasing exponentially -- 316 billion. These are yes, we've had our way. The ruling party says we've had bridges. But only with debt money. It's not clear what we're going to do when creditors come to the door like a short-lived bliss that your father's gambling father gave his children. I hope we can get through this before we get through it. But with all this going on, what's the country's agenda? The presidency. With the presidential system, we're going to save the public all this trouble, foreign policy, the troubles inside. How are we gonna do that? It's not the presidency, it's actually a presidential system. We'll do it with a bedtime story. This also forces the whole world's logic to what is happening in Turkey today. Our people should know that the situation we're in right now is actually a counter-revolution of the President. It's the final point before the declaration of the Sultanate. Both our Parliament and the Turkish nation seek justice. Now, Mr. President, what did he say in 1993, when he put forth everything he had for the presidency? ▪ The emergence of the presidential system is the result of a wannabe, or a recommendation from American imperialism. • Now, what happened twenty-three years later? Did we decide to take that advice, and suddenly our agenda came back as president? Please, let them answer this from here. What does Ataturk say? The War of Salvation has been waged, the country has been freed from enemies, and all its nearby environment now says when it comes to ruling, let's set up a presidential system or a patriarchate. But Ataturk says: I never thought about implementing the American system in our country. I've never thought of combining the presidency with a leader in a systemless and illegal manner. And that's a disaster. I don't know anything about government work, my business is foreign policy, military service. There are a lot of ministries in the government, and everyone should know their place. I'll leave it to them. I'll never get involved in any of this, he says. (CHP) So Ataturk is completely opposed to the presidential system. Then there's only one American system as president. And what else? There is Hitler in Europe, Mussolini in Italy. And Ataturk warns both of them not to be too extreme against Hitler and Mussolini, saying that there is no such system. And he emphasizes it every chance he gets. Now that we're here, that's the presidential system. And I'm afraid if we don't heed the warning that Ataturk had given us a hundred years ago, we may end up with this kind of dictatorship and internal confusion. I salute your grand delegation, and ask permission from here.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0088par0728	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Erkan Akçay, Manisa MP in favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0089par0732	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been promised a group proposal from the Justice Development Party, and I salute your honorable committee. Although we have received a pledge in favor of the Civil Code, Mr. Turan, whether it is in favor or against it is yours after the speech. Now, dear friends, this group proposal is brought to the agenda of the General Assembly for a draft law that has changed the Law on Penal Code 438 rows and different laws. Now, there's a change of agenda almost every week. Our views on the content of the bill will be presented to the Supreme Assembly in detail by our esteemed members of the National Movement Party Group as the talks begin. But there's one thing I particularly want to pay attention to: now -- especially our fellow lawmakers in the 24th term -- one of the most important things that has been discussed over the years is the bag of laws and proposals brought by the government. In September 2014, the government spokesman and Prime Minister of the time had also made a promise. In fact, they also stated that the bag bill talks have corrupted the quality of legislation, that there is no quality, no plan, no program, no quality work, and they admitted it. But nothing has changed since then. From September 2014 to today, we discussed 15 bags of bills, and today 16 will be discussed. This is 438 rows, and this proposal, which begins in some Laws under the Law of Punishment, comes to the Supreme Assembly in a bag. In 48 articles, 12 different laws predict a change. Such changes in several laws also lead to a lack of discussion of legal regulations, and thus significantly lowering the quality of legislation. Now, on the other hand, a significant portion of the material involved in this bill comes as a change of changes made in more recent times, some of which were cancelled by the Constitutional Court, and included regulations that caused problems in the implementation. Such a rapid change of laws also prevents our country's legislature and infrastructure from being established. It also violates the implementation of laws, the establishment of an application union here, and it also undermines the rule of law. And when we take into account the discussions about these substances in the past, we see that the warnings of the opposition are not considered at all. If the opposition's warnings at that time had been taken into account, they would not have needed to make such arrangements today. Now, dear friends, when you speak of your goals of 2023, 2071, Mr. Turan, I'm afraid you can't predict a week, a month and a year from now because there's no plan, no program, no vision, no vision. The law is like a puzzle board, and the legislature is like a tomb. The same changes have to be repeated over and over again. No strategic plan. A three-year medium-term programme holds what predictable goals, and even short-term goals and predictions have to be revised. Now, I'd like to bring to your attention some very interesting issues in this 438 row bill. There is a change in Article 2 in Article 8 of the Military Penal Code. The same article was changed on June 23, 2016. What's passed from June 23rd to today, folks? July, August, September, October; four months later, you have to bring a change in the same clause. Article 10 was changed on June 18, 2014. Now, after two years and four months, there's a change in the same substance again. Again, the 13th article of this 438 article brings a change in Article 103 of the Turkish Penal Code, and again, on June 18, 2014, a amendment was made to Article 59 of Law No. 6548. The 14th article, again, was changed on the 158th article of the Turkish Penal Code on April 3, 2013, and after more than three years, changes are being made again. The 22nd article was changed on March 27, 2015 with Article 100 of the Penal Code. I mean, after a year, there's a change. The 25th article was changed on February 21, 2014 in Article 128 of the Penal Code. The 26th article, again, envisions a change in Article 135 of the Penal Code. It was replaced on February 21, 2014, and now it's being changed again. The 27th article was a amendment to Hakaza, Article 139 of the Penal Code, which was changed on February 21, 2014. Again, on February 21, 2014, the 140th article of the Penal Code was changed. Again, there is a change in the 28th Amendment. Article 30 of this bill also envisions a change in Article 202 of Penal Code 5271. Here, on January 24, 2013, there has already been a change, a change in the three-and-a-half-year period, and a change in Law Law Code No. 6100. This was changed on 17 April 2013. So that's what we call a puzzle. Is there a plan, a vision, a vision? No. What? There's day-to-day changes, day-to-day management. Today, like this, we do that. It was expressed yesterday by a speaker, and it seems that the understanding of the law - no law, no law - is in the hands of the law. I'm expressing that we don't approve of this concept of legislation and this unscheduled unscheduled and unpredictableness. My respects to all of you. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0090par0745	Mr. President, I'd like to put it on the record.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0091par0746	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0090par0747	I'd like to put it on the record. We believe in the importance of this law, but our demand for a faster discussion is only due to the Constitutional Court's request for a deadline. I just wanted to let you know.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0091par0748	Thank you. It's been filed, Mr. Turan. Özcan Purçu, İzmir MP against the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Purçu.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0092par0753	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I give you all my regards. Yeah, the heart wants us to talk about something nice on this bench, but you know the state of our country, obviously. I'm gonna say this, and I'm gonna say it, and I'm gonna feel sorry for her. We just got word that the last minute was over $3.30, and our debt has increased by 45 billion. It's a debt that comes upon the citizen; you won't pay it, we'll burden the citizen with the suffering of the citizen. Again, just breaking news that the gas is going up nine cents this evening. What's this citizen gonna do, what's he gonna do? The agriculture is over, the economy is over, the livestock is over, the tourism is over; what are we going to do, what are we going to give this citizen? Politicians are giving power to this country right now, folks. Oh, no mercy at all! Farms, friends, 10% less, we get hay from the outside. In livestock, meat imports are unlimited, and livestock is dead. Yeah, it's a country that has four seasons, what are we doing, guys? This government must do its duty immediately. This citizen now wants peace; this citizen does not want to suffer hunger, poverty, unemployment. In a country with four seasons, unemployment is on the rise, poverty is on the rise. Six million poor friends, you know that? With agriculture, tourism, we live in the most beautiful country in the world. The government's job is to promote the wealth of its country to its citizens. We've never seen anything like it, we've never seen wealth, always poor. There are 17 million poor people in this country. There are 17 million poor people thinking about what to eat tomorrow. What are we doing, guys? There's no president here. Don't we have anything else to do? [[Applause from CHP rows]] No one's thinking about unemployment. Four college-educated boys, our girls walking the streets, waitressing. The other day we had a daughter, an engineer, a shame, a sin, English, I swear, she's bringing me tea, serving me tea. Alas, vile friends, this is the shame of our country, the shame of our country. I'm ashamed now, and I'm going abroad, and I'm ashamed. Why don't we give our farm a hand... support our farmer, Minister of Agriculture, support our farmer, this country? Support animalism. Tourism Minister, tourism is dying, how many hotels are for sale? Guys, what are we gonna do, what are we gonna do? Pity, sin. Leave the municipalities to the medians. What's the government doing? I can't see it. Look, we went to Kayseri yesterday. Where Kayseri was the most beautiful of all, they destroyed Roman citizens' homes again, 20 miles away... when we were Muslim, when our brother was hungry, and we couldn't stay full? 20 miles away, they put it in a hole, they build a building on it, they sell it for 500,000 euros. They gave my Roman brother a $50,000 house.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0093par0761	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0092par0762	No service, no transportation, so no hospital, no car, no pharmacy, no kids can't go to school, and then they get up here, and they say, "Sir, we're investigating refugee children." What are you going to do with these kids? This kid's on the street. What are you gonna do? What are you gonna do with these kids? What are you going to do? You want to investigate a child, there you go, kid. Anything else? Here, look, there's kids here. The refugees are our children, you can look into them, but look, I've told you 50 times, I'm ashamed. You made a strategy document, anyone watching? I'm watching one MP, the Roman Strategy Document, and he's doing this. Let him say, "I'll come, I'll kiss him on the forehead, I'll apologize." Shame on you, come on, come on! They live in tents, aren't we ashamed? Come on, guys, this is outrageous. There are 300 children who can't go to school in Kayseri, and we can't get one service. Where are the Kayseri MPs? Where are the Kayseri MPs? Shame is a sin, my friends. We have to give the wealth of our country to our citizens. The plague of this is upon us. I, as a member of the Republic of Turkey, cannot use the wealth of agriculture; since we cannot use animalism, tourism, subterranean mining resources, I apologize to all my citizens as a Republican People's Party MP, all my citizens. (CHEERING) It's a shame, it's a sin, friends. This country is so beautiful, so rich, there shouldn't be one poor person left here, there shouldn't be one poor person left.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0094par0764	They're at the residence, Roman citizens in the tent.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0092par0765	Look, the hunger limit is over $1,400, you know? 17 million poor people are starving in this country. Again, the poverty line exceeds $4,500. Our brothers are paid 1,300 lira, so go ahead, make a miracle. Is that a thing? (HPP applause) Work Minister, Finance Minister, let us comfort Turkey, comfort our citizens. It is not for him, my friends, that it is our sin, their poverty, their poverty, their distress, our sin, unless we give this country's wealth to these citizens. Alas, Turkey is a country that can truly be a leader all over the world if it develops.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0095par0766	What about the presidency?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0092par0767	Every day, someone comes in here, and they're like this, and that's what's going on. We're wasting energy, we're burning light, you all have energy, you all have powers, it's a pity, it's a pity, it's a pity! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Friends, in the name of God, we are all Muslims. Guys, we're polarized, polarized, polarized. I went to Erzurum the other day. Republican People's Party... my MP ran away, I said what happened? Yeah, he's running away from me. What happened, brother? We're brothers, friends, this country is all of us. I love my brothers and sisters of the AK PARTY, my brothers of the HDP, my brothers of the MPHP, and my brothers of the Republican People's Party. We all need to build this country together, but I didn't see that. He goes there, this goes here; the country polarizes and polarizes. That's not true, guys. I worked in Europe for 11 years, in the Council of Europe. When it comes down to it, they're all united for the good of the country, they're raising their country, but we don't have it. One day someone stood up and opened that factory. He didn't say. We always build bridges, we always make roads. For God's sake, this country has no problems with corruption, no problems with corruption. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] We've always made roads, friends, and we'll open up some factories, and we'll create alternative development models that will prevent some unemployment. Is that in the government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0096par0773	Of course I do.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0092par0774	Show me one. We opened this factory today and hired 500 people. You do? We're breaking.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0096par0775	I don't want to see...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0092par0776	New figures have been released, all stories, 11 percent unemployment. Go out on the street, turn 100 people, you'll find 11 people unemployed, or you'll find 60 unemployed? There's no such thing. Guys, let's get it together. Let's not waste our energy, the energy of the country. Shame on the citizen. I swear, the citizen is suffering. The number of suicides has increased. We have a citizen who thinks about what's going to happen tomorrow, who thinks about what he's going to eat, who thinks about what he's going to do, who thinks about what he's going to do. This country has a young population. We can't use our young people, we can't use our land, we can't use agriculture, we can't show our citizens the wealth of this country. What the hell are we gonna do, guys?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0097par0780	Don't be a shadow.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0092par0781	We can't all agree together in this House. Sir, let's look into this. We say, "There's rejection; let's look into it." We say, "There's rejection." Why are you guys refusing? We will serve this country together. Why are you refusing?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0098par0783	You're so loud. Don't shout, yes. We'll give it to you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0092par0784	But no, you won't refuse. If the interests of the country are in the interests of the citizens, you will not say no. For political reasons alone, no, no, no. There is no such thing.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0098par0785	What shall we call it, yes?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0092par0786	Let's talk differently, let's think differently. We can all do something for this country. Look, the workers are screwed, the officer's screwed, they're unemployed. Everyone's in limbo. Guys, let's get this straight. We're sitting here in peace. People are suffering, there's sadness, there's trouble, there's already a lot of terrorist activity, there's a lot going on. As soon as we're a country, we'll all join hands, we'll build this country, friends. No, I'm criticizing the government, I'm critical of the power. Let's get a hold of ourselves, guys. Look, none of you are following the strategy document. Let's do the Roman thing here one day, for a day. I propose to all of you, our MPHP group presidents, who are from the AKP...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0099par0790	We work every week, every week.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0092par0791	We're already ready. Let's talk about Roma poverty for a day. Where is it?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0099par0792	We talk every week.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0092par0793	Where do you talk? When you come to get the game, it's okay. Well, I'm telling all citizens that there is no pain, no sadness in the rule of the Republican People's Party, there is peace, there is love, there is happiness. Believe me, this Republican People's Party will touch the workers, the workers, the poor and the poor. Now the alternative is the only Republican People's Party. It's over, folks, and let's all see this truth. My compliments to all of you, friends, thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0100par0797	Thank you, Mr. Purçu. Dear Arik...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0101par0799	Mr. President, Mr. orator, where are the Kayseri MPs?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0100par0800	What kind of teasing, Mr. Sobber?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0101par0801	Are there no Kayseri MPs? Where are the Kayseri MPs?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0100par0802	You have stated that the Kayseri MPs are here in the process of making a record of yourself. It's in the transcripts, Mr. Arik. Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0102par0804	Mr. President, if you don't mind, I won't take the stand to pass the law so I don't waste time. However, I would like to point out that every day, every day, there's no other job? I think it's too dangerous to say. What we say is a structure that wants to darken the future of this country, and I don't think it's true, for example. And no business has been done about the Roman Strategy Document. However, the five ministries have given their information about this, they've held a meeting, and we're continuing this, we're trying to contribute. We look forward to his benefits. Besides, if he'd spoken more calmly, the answer would've been...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit01spe0100par0806	Thank you, Mr. Turan, it's been filed. I submit to your votes the Justice and Development Party Group, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0100par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 22nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will begin negotiations with the Penal Code, which is ranked number 1 and with the Law Bill and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 438 rows. Congressmans, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Now I'm going to meet your demands on the entire bill. I'll make a commitment to political parties above all. The first word, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, belongs to Mugla MP Ömer Süha Aldan. Here you go, Mr. Aldan.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0103par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I present to you on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the Law of Criminal Law 438, and of all of the Bill of Laws to Change Some Laws. I salute the High Council. Of course, first of all, we're glad that this bill comes in the form of a bill because we're getting used to the laws of the law. In fact, the decrees under the law are the arrangements to be made within the framework of a state of emergency. Unfortunately, the government has often issued a ruling on matters that have nothing to do with the state of emergency. In this sense, bringing this bill before the House is a happy development that will pass through at least one observation of Parliament. But let's not forget that we're really used to these arrangements. Here's the thing: We're dealing with a concept called revisiting a text of law. The arrangements are often changing. For example, you're looking, when the court of justice is in charge of wiretaps, it can suddenly be put in charge of a severe criminal court by the conjunctive; it can be asked by the heavy criminal court, by a unanimous vote, to ask for telephone wiretapping or secret investigators. Other than that, as we're going to see today, it can now be taken away from the criminal court and given back to the justice of the peace. We face this phenomenon: We are now making legal arrangements based on conjunctural structure. Of course, it is important not to deny that the laws of the law are not a divine judgment, it is possible to change the text of the law based on social change, based on the desires of society, based on social pressure. There's no hesitation in that. However, these changes to certain issues, specific issues, are really causing major injuries in the field of law. And let's not forget that if there's a lot of talk about law in a country, there's a problem in democracy, there's a problem in freedom. In countries where freedoms, democracy is abundant, there is no mention of law, legal regulations, restrictions, often amendments to the law. As for this bill, we have certain concerns about this bill. We're no doubt agreeing with some of the materials. I'd like to give you a few examples of what we're concerned about. For example, there is a certain amount in these laws, such as the Law and Bankruption Act, Business Law, Law and Law Law Law, which determines the final judgment, which is usually a thousand liras. Now, with this structure, these provisions and the exact amount of provisions are intended to be replaced between 5,000 and 7,000 liras. Let us never forget that for our citizens living in Turkey, sometimes even $2,000 is of great importance. People have to live on a minimum wage of 1,300 lira in this country, with a minimum wage raised. When you raise a certain sentence, a thousand liras, to 3,000 liras in a business case they've opened, you take away an important mechanism to support people. In this regard, I suggest that while there is still time, it is the development of an objection mechanism, which is that if we increase the exact amount of provisions to be made in the Law on Law, Law on Law on Law or Law on Work Law, if we open an appeal to them, we will be able to reintroduce very illegal verbs. In fact, this change in terms of 3, 4 and 5 is also a matter that we should consider politically in terms of Turkey's painting. Think about it. In 2004, the majority of these laws were adopted, these numbers are 2004 figures. So the fact that over the past 12 years, the number of thousand liras has been raised to 7,000 liras, and the final sentence of a thousand liras has been decided is actually a sign of how much Turkey's inflation really is, in fact, a very good issue for us to be considered politically. Dear lawmakers, there's a subject in Article 9 about the alternative solutions we call reconciliation. Yes, it's a well-intentioned arrangement, but Turkey doesn't work either. This, first of all, is what we call compromise, in the result of a judicial incident, and if the amount of punishment does not exceed a certain amount of time, it is to ensure that it does not go to trial through reconciliation between people. But since people in Turkey have no account for their buying power, a decision that can be carried out much more freely in the European countries does not mean anything here. Dear MPs, I'd like to take a moment to consider the 12th Amendment. (6) Added to Article 12 to Article 75 of Penal Code 5237. This is also a prepayment charge, which means that people in traffic who are on the move to endanger people's lives, who drink alcohol, then drive a car without violence, and then endanger people's safety, are actually prevented by this substance, and it is arranged that those who use alcohol, dangerous vehicles will be saved from prosecution through prepayment. I don't think it's fair to do so, so it's a good thing that someone who puts people's lives at risk at least gets to face a judge. Dear lawmakers, the main reason for bringing this bill up immediately is the 13th article of the bill. The 13th article contains changes in Article 103 of the Turkish Penal Code. Actually, it's more accurate to say it doesn't contain change. The Constitutional Court has annulled some provisions of Article 103 of the Turkish Penal Code for two different reasons. The basis for the Supreme Court's annulment is... let me first mention a clause. This is the article 103, which regulates the crime of sexual abuse against children. One, the Constitutional Court has seen as a reason not to step up between victims and perpetrators; this is the first. A second point is that the Constitutional Court has found the amount of punishment in the provisions that regulate the state of the sentence, which is aggravated. The main reason for this is that there are three fundamental distinctions regarding sexual crimes in the recent Penal Code -- the Turkish Penal Code 765 -- one rape, the other rape, the other harassment. Affluence is divided between them, like hand-holding and verbal abuse. For years, this law has been enforced, and if a sexual assault occurs in a person's mental state, in a physical state, there was a clause that would increase the sentence, which was the 418th Article of the Turkish Penal Code at the time. Now, this arrangement continued in habit for years, and the practice got used to it, sat down with the Supreme Court's convictions, but on June 1, 2005, the new Turkish Penal Code, which entered into force, was separately edited; sexual assault, child abuse, and sexual harassment, and after a while, the harmony was broken. Now, unfortunately, no one wants to fix the broken harmony or is afraid to correct it. Now, this arrangement, which is the 13th article, in Article 103, is the same as the dissolution of the Constitutional Court. So, the Constitutional Court has cancelled this clause, and now we're trying to get this Constitutional Court annulled. This is clearly contrary to the principle of separation of forces. Whether we like it or not, if it comes to public pressure, we have to face it. If we can't react enough to social pressure, then there's no point in implementing the law. In time, corruption, such approaches will bring new problems. We have a motion to make in that sense, and we want it to be regulated. On the other hand, there has been no new regulation, especially by the friends in the practice -- which is the Constitutional Court's decision -- on the condition that the perpetrator is small. I find the 17th article of the bill extremely positive. Because many people have drug users in their families, and families are anxious, trying to get them to treat them in secret, so that people who use drugs aren't treated badly by the social structure. However, in an application to a health institution, a health worker who sees an act of crime is bound to be notified. So, according to the Turkish Penal Code, not reporting the crime is also a crime. In this sense, there is an exception. So, families who identify their children using drugs will now be able to avoid exposing their child's actions. Therefore, I would like to say that I find this clause positive. I find the 21st article of the bill highly objectionable. Look, this could become a habit. Article 21 of the bill is referred to as: The court will have the right to choose the courtroom as it pleases. I mean, you might even prefer a police station as a courtroom, or you might even call a prison room a courtroom. It's a situation that can lead to pleasure. Courthouses have courtrooms. If there are cases that don't have enough resources for a quantitative majority, at least in time, it's useful to resolve them with the justice commission's ability. If you leave this entirely between the judge's lips, a judge who changes the courtroom an hour before the trial may undermine the right to defend people. I'd like to offer this as a suggestion. Let me briefly mention the 22nd article. It was a clause the Minister of Justice wanted very much. We said not to do it in the past, but, yes, it's a substance that results in the arrest of individuals, even if the amount of punishment is in fact low in the acts of battery, injury, intentional injury. Yes, we have a sensitivity. Here, a nurse is a substance that comes up after a case of our daughter being kicked by a lunatic on a city bus, but first of all, I benefit from being principled. So, just because there's a social response, it's not right to spread these kinds of arrests, then the way to abuse them can be opened, that's all I can say. Article 23 is a clause that increases the duration of the investigation in the event of an appeal to arrest in mass crime, organised crime. The amount of this was actually 15 days in the bill, but the negotiations narrowed it down to seven days. Even if that's pleasing, I think that's a lot of time. Now, I want to focus on the valuable MPs, particularly the 26th, 27th and 28th. These are the substances that regulate communication, secret investigator deployment and technical surveillance crimes. You know, after December 17th-25th, the judiciary -- if necessary -- was removed at a time when it wasn't so dominant -- and an arrangement was made that the court would vote on listening decisions, monitoring decisions and technical surveillance. I even said it then, and I said it from this stand, that one day you'll come back, and you'll make it go back to the way it was. That's the way it used to be. I don't have anything to say about this, I agree with what I used to say, but our friends, our fellow lawmakers, the criminal court of heavy communication -- I mean, let the wiretaps, technical surveillance, and secret investigator task force remain on the grounds of the heavy court, but at least let the majority vote decide, so they think it's an obstacle in the face of illegal listening, and I'll leave it to your appreciation. Articles 32 and 33 of the bill are regulated in Articles 247 and 248 of Penal Code 5271. Actually, 2 substances are dependent on each other. This can be explained in a nutshell: A wanted and not found perpetrator is being seized during the investigation of the suspect's assets. I don't think it's appropriate for today's liberal understanding. So even though there's only one claim against you, and it's just a coincidence, maybe all the assets of an undiscovered person will be confiscated. Maybe if that person had been reached, he'd show up, so he could give his statement. This needs to be considered. There's a clause that says that this is in the judicial stage, which is expanded to the business investigation stage, which I, frankly, consider to be a very wrong arrangement. Dear lawmakers, Article 42 -- the same thing that I just said in Articles 3, 4, 5 -- increases the amount of certainty. And I'd like to offer this to you on the basis of the power of a citizen, on the basis of the value of a thousand liras for a citizen, and on the basis of the value of two thousand liras. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to mention one last thing in particular, I've left it at the end. You know, there's a Ergenekon case file. The Ergenekon case file was the investigations, the cases that led people to suicide, that we understand today that many injustices have been committed. And in the end, a lot of these cases have gone through, people have been in prison for years, we have MPs among them; some people have been in prison; some have been in their homes, some have been in their homes, some have been in their children, have been out of freedom, many people have been unable to share their information with this society, this nation, unfortunately, because of the constraint of these freedoms. After all, the Supreme Court said: "There is no organization here, there is not enough evidence for people's imprisonment, and the evidence is false. You violated your right to defend yourself. You've made yourself legal. After all, this file has been corrupted for six or seven reasons in April. If such a case was corrupted for this reason, this judge, the prosecutors would have already been discharged, and now they're almost all under arrest. Here's the interesting thing: this case has been dragged for months, a truckload of files; it's stuck in drag; it's Istanbul 4. The High Criminal Court has ruled that this case is inadmissible. A truckload of files will now arrive in Ankara because Ankara is in charge. However, it is clear that Article 18 of the Penal Code (2) of Article 18 of the Law of Criminal Law: After questioning a defendant in court, there is no unauthorized decision. Is it possible that those judges did not know about this? It's not. A senior judge who has become the head of the criminal court, who has been appointed to İstanbul, knows that there will be absolutely, absolutely no unauthorized decision here. Now, I have to ask, why was this unauthorized decision made? I wonder, does everything have a superior mind, and the judgment has a superior mind? We have to question that. This clearly means that these judges know that there is no unauthorized decision, because the law has a clear ruling. Then, this will come to Ankara, Ankara will say: "The 18th article of the CMK is open, you can't make an unauthorized decision, and I'm unauthorized." This time the file will go to the district court to resolve conflict. That would take at least a year and a half, two years, with an optimistic estimate. This means that the defendants who were tried in Ergenekon have continued to face the threat of punishment. Watch your step, do not move, do not make promises to the current ruler. It's a huge injustice. In Ergenekon, these people have suffered a lot, they have suffered a lot, so let us not cause them a second pain. I call upon Mr. Minister of Justice as head of the HSYK, and I say to you, act immediately on these judges, they have acted against the law, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0104par0045	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. On top of the entire bill, Mr. Kadir Koçdemir will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0105par0049	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. The bill that we're discussing today is a new example of the fact that the law in Turkey, law in Turkey, outside the establishment of justice, is also tasked with public reactions and sometimes assisting political goals. You know, the government has its primary tasks, and one of the most important tasks is to establish a predictable environment and to maintain a predictable, computable environment. The way life can be predictable, the way it can be calculated is through the law, and the changes in law are in its own way. In modern democracies, the source of legitimacy is procedure. There are certain goals to the arrangements made in the course of the procedure. From the mistakes that have been made so far, the experiences that have been taken the wrong way have shown itself in a manner of doing so. If you try to go around with the proper bag of laws, the basic law enforcement, you'll bring the same subjects over and over again to the House after three months to change the same law again, as our group vice president has just stated here with concrete examples. When you do that, a bag of law today has become the basic law, but it changes 11 different laws. This law may again assert a claim to have a certain integrity within itself, an initiative. Yesterday, you know, we discussed another law on budget, on the Constitutional Court's cancellation. In that law, as we sat there at the last moment, many articles have been added to the requirement of this Constitutional Court's cancellation, as a basis for the lack of budgetary rights, from feeding aid to correcting SGK's bonus situation, and it has been brought here as a fundamental law. We've seen a similar process in this law. For example, there's a change in the limits of certain punishments. The process of one of these changes requires a good example of how we make laws. The bill envisioned an increase from a thousand liras to 5,000 liras. Later, in the subcommittee -- which is the majority of our ruling parliamentary friends in the subcommittee -- there, unanimously, on the grounds of limiting the right to seek rights, the 5,000 lira amount was reduced to 3,000 lira. Later, when he came back to the Justice Commission, at the request of the Minister, the first bill was raised to 7,000 liras, not enough for 5,000. Because the subcommittee blocked the right to seek rights, our friends who thought it was 5,000 liras high suddenly changed their opinion. The increase of monetary limits in the three, four, five, 41, and 42, is exemplary, on the one hand, to show how much the value of Turkish money is protected, and also to close the search for rights. The response to objections to these upgrades was usually a workload of newly established municipal court courts. However, as far as we know, the district courthouses were set up to ensure that our citizens get a faster and more accurate solution than their legal path. But, for reasons here, the labor burden of the courts is the main motive, rather than the consequences of a citizen's legal action. This has rightly reminded us of how well we would have handled our finances without schools. The detection and rest of communication in Articles 25, 26, 27, and the surveillance of secret investigators and technical tools are again a very clear example of the understanding of legislation, the mentality that has been dominated in recent years. It's like a baby in a transformer, the mindset pressing on buttons that he doesn't know about, when the results he doesn't want come out, he pushes another button and usually does all this by falling into a trap of ifrat-fire. And when we put in the legislation, which was added from right to left, which was included at the last minute during the legislature, we're actually doing a legislation that is incompatible with the savings of Turkey, the Republic, our democracy. My predecessor has also stated that in Articles 32 and 33, it is unthinkable for the prosecutor to be given the authority to seize his assets and appoint trustees in order to force him to testify. Today we all go abroad for certain reasons, sometimes short-term, sometimes long-term, outside our residence address. Without any concrete criteria for this lack of accession, it is not really a matter in line with modern law, rights, justice, rights and the right to people's right to defend and fair trial, that only by the decision of the state's attorney, people can be seized, trustees to their property. This tells us that we don't have time to hurry. When we hurry, we see that by taking the same law five or six times, we are able to arrive much later on the road that we are going to take with a calm legislature. We've seen this more recently. For example, the E.T.A. Act came in such a hurry, and when it was highlighted in all international law as being the real person of its expert opinion, we gave the firms an expert opinion while the recipe was made this way. Yesterday, we also did legislature work on the budget, in a similar way, by adding free zones, SGK bonuses, nutritional aid, and STV. Turkey, on the other hand, is a country in particular in need of a broad perspective, a vision of state man, a lawman and understanding of one another. Without pre-researching the laws, without taking into account the financial, economic and social impacts of the change, which, again, this Parliament has made a necessity for its own analysis of influence, but I have never seen any law -- including laws affecting property -- done. I'm afraid we haven't seen his text. The same situation also shows itself in the prepayment system brought in by the 12th article of the law for traffic vehicles, which will endanger traffic and for those who manage it. Here, too, traffic accidents in Turkey, traffic-threatening events in Turkey, without any research into who has the flaw in these cases, the prepayment system in our law has also been damaged and brought to a prepayment system for such crimes. In other words, they will be relieved of their obligation to testify, testify, and appear before the judge if the drivers pay the amount of the prepayment in the amount of money that would endanger traffic. On the other hand, it would be helpful to look at the practices made by countries who are successful in traffic. On this occasion, I would like to say that Turkey is unfortunately a champion in the number of car accidents in European Union countries and OECD countries. In 2015, more than 7,500 people were killed in traffic accidents. That means that over 20 people die every day in a car accident. But, in this regard, at that moment, looking at someone's point of view, we're putting aside the Highway Traffic Law, and the regulations that are based on it, and we're probably bringing in the prepayment system in our legal system to reduce the workload again. When you bring in the prepayment system, it means you're making it easier to end up with death, injury, property damage, loss of goods. For example, in Western countries -- when I was coming here, I got Germany -- there are 46 levels of illegal parking tickets. When you shut down the fire department's exit, the hospital's emergency room, when you spend time in a different, normally parked space, you're being punished in a different way. Crossing a red light is subject to ten different kinds of punishments. There are 10 different kinds of punishments for running a red light, the amount of time you go through after the light goes on, and whether you cause danger or not. The speed limit, again, is 29 levels, but in our country, friends, the speed limit is a step up to 30 percent, a step after 30 percent. So in a place where the speed limit is 50 kilometers [50 km] - 15 per cent; 66 km [66 km] per hour, the same punishment is given by our system. But, as I was saying, there are 29 levels in this business in countries that include the accumulation of penalties on traffic safety and in the penal system, in the control system. Instead of doing these things -- which we don't have to explore America, we have a lot of grown people -- in traffic, we have a lot of people -- we take the forward and management as a prepayment, and we put an exception here on the upper border, which is usually a year in advance, and we put it on the upper border for two years. Another thing: why did this bill come today? Because the Constitutional Court has two cancellation decrees, one of which has been given six months and one of which has been given a year, which is due to a one-year term. So one of the reasons why we had an early meeting and ranked on the agenda is the Constitutional Court's decision to call it off. And was it treated in accordance with the Constitutional Court's annulment? We're looking at Article 13 of the Constitutional Court's annulment. Here, the first and second sentences of article 103, which was cancelled, are preserved exactly. For those under 12 years of age only, instead of eight, ten years, five years instead of three, and sixteen, 18 years minimum prison sentence, or a lower sentence limit. Again, we see that the grounds expressed in the 16th paragraph of Constitutional Court Resolution 2016/46 have not been taken into account, so the principles of measureability, availability, proportionality between verb and sanction have not been observed, and there are no broader margins of appreciation given to the court according to the specific situation of the case, and the rehabilitation institutions and processes are not organised here. The procedure is fundamental, and the procedure determines the basis, my friends. So, we have to do the legislature thing as soon as possible, or we'll often have to make changes like this. Come on, we can do this by changing our daily routine, the agenda of the House often, but we're losing one thing, friends: actors in the economy can't decide when there's no foreseeable environment. When there is no predictable environment, people's trust in the law is diminishing. Today, unfortunately, our judicial system is at the last in public research on trust in institutions. Today, because of lack of trust in law, Turkey has to settle for very little of its potential in many areas, from economics to employment, social, cultural activities to intellectual activities. For him, the rule of law must be carried out immediately along with all institutions, rules and elements. Let me finish with an anecdote that says that the navy is advancing on an open sea. Then, a radio call comes to the Navy's captain's cabin, and the announcement is: "Please, turn your course 30 degrees south." The Navy responds to this radio: "We cannot change our course, please, turn your course 30 degrees north." The announcement is repeated across: Please, turn your course to 30 degrees south or there will be a collision in the navy's cabin. Friends, history, savings, experience of living together. Please, let's set a course for the state of 90 degrees. I salute you all with the wish of a life that has come true.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0106par0068	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0107par0072	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I'd like to express my opinion on Bill 438, but just before we paused, Mr. Ozcan went to our brother Kayseri, where he was, of course, our guest -- he tried to assess the sensitivities in some areas in Kayseri, the shortcomings he saw in Kayseri. So we couldn't get him to listen here, but in the case of our friends, where are these Kayseri MPs? As he himself has just stated from the bench, it is not possible that people could actually live six kilometers from the center of the city, which is not in line with the conditions of life. I have just shared images of the land in Kayseri, of the empty lot, with Ozcan Bey. I asked our mayor, and the mayor sent us the old version of this land. It's about six kilometers from the center of the city, one block from the main street, a big street we know as "Sivas Street."
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0108par0074	It's in the back of the group.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0107par0075	There's a place in the back of the tribe - also known by Mr. Tetin. But, now, I'm looking at the pictures, the pictures from seven or eight years ago, the roofs are covered with plastic tarp, so there's no house, there's no windows, there's no garden. In fact, the streets are something that doesn't have a zoning plan, and the people who live here own the land, they don't own the property. There's a big problem with the housing on the property of the individuals -- any individual -- on the property. In order to resolve that problem, our Melikgazi Mayor says, "Come, let me build you a dwelling." And on that day -- there are videos, and there are valuable brothers and sisters in the region -- who live in the area, with drums, zurna -- even by offering each other beans, by handing out soups, and people who live there, by handing out soup to each other, and by destroying their own houses, by tearing down their own slums, by destroying their own homes, by destroying their own 200 dwellings. In the project, all residents in the region are building 200 homes for 160-170 families, the mayor and the municipality in Kayseri say that even though the dwellings are 10 to 12 floors, they say we don't want 12 or 15 floors, we want you to build us 3 or 4 floors. For six years, Roman citizens have been saying, "I don't agree with him, the population of Kayseri is 1,350,000." In Kayseri, the Sivasites live, the Yozgatites live, the Marashites live, the Ancients live, for us, whoever they may be, they are all Kayseri. Those 200 Roma brothers of ours are also Kayseri -- all of them are Kayseri to us -- because they live in Kayseri, they eat Kayseri's bread, they drink their water. They're Kayseri, just like I'm Kayseri. Now, he's here, he's dreaming, he's real. He's putting up a banner. There may be some flaws. When I meet with our new mayor, our mayor says: "We have opened the mosque together with the people of that area. There may be a lack of a health clinic, I haven't seen him, we can meet him.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0109par0077	No service, the kids can't go to school.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0107par0078	I mean, that could be a service issue. For example, Mr. Ozcan says the roof of the houses is flowing. Dear friends, look, the dwelling has been given, built by the city, delivered for free, the roof of the house is being built. I mean, he can't apply to every city or government with a roof over his house. If the roof of Mr. Özcan's house were to fall down, and my roof was to fall, why don't you do it?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0110par0081	Out of poverty, out of poverty.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0107par0082	No water, no electricity, he says. Electrical money -- I don't know -- electricity debts, maybe. I mean, is it possible that the electricity of a building that was built six years ago wasn't connected to the water? And now the pictures have arrived. Look, it's the last one.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0111par0084	Wow! What kind of opposition is that?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0107par0085	It's an urban transformation project of 200 dwellings, and that's the first one. I looked at these blue ones, blue ones, they're covered in plastic tarp, and they're covered in rocks, and there's always paper.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0112par0086	We thought it was the sea!
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0107par0087	Look, the state he was in at the time-- ten stories, 15 floors of condos, not even made of plastic tarp in front of him-- not even from the land. Here's a treat for the mayor of our Kayserian countrymen over there. That's where our countrymen tear down their own homes... with axes and pickaxes and their own homes with great joy. Why? The city will give us a modern home. Now, in the context of these facts... look, he dreamed, he became real. It's our brothers and sisters in the region, and we're actually thanking the mayor at the time. From 1946 to 1946, the first province with a Nazi zoning plan is Kayseri. Kayseri is indeed a lucky province for mayors. All the mayors who came from the late Osman Kavuncu to serve Kayseri are doing their best to comply with that Nazi zoning plan in 1946. Here's the close-up of homes at that time, in 2009, in 2010, homes, streets. Now, Mr. Ozcan says that you have taken our brothers from their homes, and you have assessed the plots elsewhere. It's a beautiful move to prevent this warped structure inside the city. In fact, I'm here to thank the Melikgazi Mayor and our esteemed mayors who ruled the Kayseri municipalities that day. Electricity money: It's a matter between the electric company and the individuals. You can't say there's no electricity, and you can't say there's no water. Just as I pay for electricity, as I pay for water, if you're paying for electricity, water, our people who live there probably have to pay for electricity, water. According to his statement, the mayor says that if anyone needs help, we provide for them from the Social Aid Fund. For him, there may be some flaws, and for those flaws... we have decided with Mr. Ozcan, that we will go to Kayseri, that we will visit Paradisetown as soon as possible. Look, I'd like to thank Mr. Özcan Purchu, for having moved our dear brothers from hell to a paradise like this, to the city of Kayseri Melikgazi. At this time, I give my congratulations to the Kayseri municipalities who have performed these services. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0113par0093	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0114par0094	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0107par0095	I didn't make a fool out of it, I didn't explain...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0113par0096	Just a moment, Mr. Purchu. Mr. Arik, I believe you have a request for the 60th Amendment. I'll turn on your microphone for a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0115par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. I listened in awe of Mr. Elitas. It is one of Kayseri's most valuable lands, in the region of the tribes. What is given to the citizens now is a distance of 30 to 40 kilometers, called the District of Paradise, but they're going through hell. I was just there yesterday, it's called heaventown. Look, there's no mass transport going into the neighborhood to make sure it doesn't land in the city, Mr. Elitaş. There is no service for the children of 200 residents who live in Paradisetown to go to school. The children say: "We are afraid, we leave at five in the morning, we can go to school in three hours, the dogs are after us." And there is an unrehabilitated stream, where the son of a citizen fell, and died; and that stream is still there. There's no health clinic, Mr. Elitaş. They're going to Cırgalan to get services from the health clinic. Please, let's go together, I was there yesterday.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0116par0105	That area is very happy with its human condition, but you're uncomfortable for some reason.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0115par0106	And that area is the richest in Rants... so the most valuable land of Kayseri is in their hands...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0116par0108	No, they don't own the property, they don't own the property.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0117par0109	Thank you, Mr. Arik. Mr. Purçu, since your name is mentioned, I can't promise you anything from the bench. I didn't see any bullying.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0116par0111	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0118par0112	But, there are some facts that we've identified about the field, and we'd like to transfer them from here.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0119par0113	Well, if you'll excuse me for a moment...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0120par0114	Mr. Purçu, Mr. Elitaş has made a commitment to the Justice and Development Party on behalf of the entire bill. There's no bullying in his speech, which you didn't give.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0118par0115	No, it's not teasing, it's polite, but it's about the truth again, it's about the truth...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0121par0116	Don't push it, you're a clerk, you're a coerced Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0118par0117	Don't worry about it.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0122par0118	I'll turn on your microphone, and I'll give you my word for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0118par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. There was urban transformation all over Turkey, urban disaster in Roma neighborhoods, the same in Kayseri, Istanbul. What happened to our Sulukule? Tomorrow there is destruction in Sincan. The property of the Roma neighborhoods is owned by Sincan Municipality. The same thing happened in Kayseri.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0123par0123	This isn't a property.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0118par0124	Roma citizens -- the oldest neighborhoods in their time -- are what the Minister calls one of Kayseri's oldest Roman neighborhoods -- were there years ago when he didn't get the deed. Later, the municipalities auctioned off while they were sitting there. The same goes for Sincan, for Istanbul, for Kayseri, and for Bursa. Later, these friends of mine, these brothers and sisters, they're being sold here, 20 miles from the city... believe me, there's no bus, there's no bus, there's no electricity, there's no water. Of course we thank you, the municipality may have done it, but you can't say, "Al, live here." Come on, let's live one day, let's go, let's see if we can live. Sir, there's nothing, not even a hospital, not even a pharmacy, not even a grocery store. Come on, go live. And there's no bus, there's no service. The children leave at five in the morning, six in the morning, leaving for school in three hours.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0124par0126	Thank you, Mr. Purçu.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0125par0127	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0124par0128	Mr. Elitaş...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0125par0129	I'd like to make a brief statement for the record.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0124par0130	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0125par0132	Sir, the land here is not in the possession of the residents, as Mr. Çetin said, as Ozcan Bey said. Unregistered dwellings on property owned by other private individuals. The municipality has not seized the land of Özcan Bey, our friends, which it refers to as our Roman citizens. Someone else's land, some treasure land, some citizen's land. The citizens who built a house on that land -- not 20 miles -- know how to measure space -- are 12 kilometers away, the previous location is 6 kilometers, the current location is 12 kilometers downtown, and there are now 150,000 people living there. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0124par0134	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. You're going to Kayseri, it seems. If you invite me, I'll be there in my neutral position. The talks on the entire bill on behalf of political party groups are over. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have requested a word on their behalf. The first public speaker is Cemal Okan Yüksel, Eskişehir MP. Here you go, Mr. Yüksel.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0126par0144	Reverend President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself to express my views on the Law of Criminal Law and the Amendment to certain Laws. Now, in recent years in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the logic of the bag of law, especially applied by the Justice and Development Party governments, unfortunately, is also reflected in this law. In fact, I would like to offer your appreciation for the fact that a bag of legislation from the Justice Commission, which is entirely legal, has to be passed in a meeting of 49 articles, each one of which has to be discussed in the Justice Commission for a long period of time. Now, what are the laws on this bill? I mean, what's in a bill, a bag of bills? We're changing the Military Penal Code, we're changing the Law on Executive and Bankruption, we're changing the Law on Business Courts, we're changing the Law on Civil Service Law of Turkish Armed Forces, we're changing the Law on Organizations and Jobs of Justice, we're changing the Law on Criminal Law, we're changing the Law on Punishment and Security Protection. All of these are fundamental laws that need to be discussed for a long period of time, to be consulted by experts, and to come out of the Justice Commission. But what did we do? We were on hold for a long time after the Constitutional Court's decision to cancel Article 103, but when the time was up -- because on December 11th, Mr. President's signature and the Official Gazette had to be published -- if there was no regulation on Article 103, there would be no regulation on Article 103; we rushed through the lower commission in two or three hours; and we passed this from the Justice Commission in three or five hours. So we did everything we could to speed it up as opposition, but unfortunately, a lot of the amendments in the subcommittee had to be changed back to the demands of the Justice and Development Party government in the top commission. Now, almost all of our lawmakers on this stand say that when Parliament was bombed on the night of July 15th, all opposition parties and ruling party MPs were here, that we were trying to save democracy hand in hand, that we represented the national will here, but in this way, 49 materials, they bring in a fundamental law that changes very important laws. What's so special about the basic law? If a law comes as a fundamental law, it's only a member of an opposition party, and it only meets on a clause for five minutes, with a amendment motion. Now, when it comes to our work, we call it the national will, we call it respect for national will, we call it the opposition parties with the ruling party. We call it democracy. But when it doesn't come to our work, we bring it as the basic law, so that the legislators don't waste any more time here. I mean, it's probably just people who vote for the Justice and Development Party, but we have people who don't vote for the Justice and Development Party, and their will is ignored. Now, I'd like to say a few words on the matter. For example, the second article brought in by the bill presents a serious inequality between military and civilian individuals. Some of the crimes subject to prepayment provisions in civilian individuals are held outside the prepayment provisions of military persons. This creates an inequality between individuals only because of their duties. In Article 3 of Article 3, the limit of applying for a thousand liras in Article 363 of the Law on Appeals and Bankruption was set at $5,000 on the government's proposal. We reduced it to 3,000 liras in the lower commission of the Justice Commission, so that there would be no obstacle to the freedom of rights, but then the limit that the lower commission reduced to 3,000 liras was raised to 7,000 liras in the upper commission. So, in the country where we have 17 million citizens living below the poverty line, there's a four-month fee for our friends who are trying to make a living on minimum wage, and the appeal limit really limits freedom of rights. In the same way, the appeal limit for the files that went to the district court with Article 4 was raised from $10,000 to $50,000. Now, here's the good news: before the talks started, we had a meeting with the ruling party executives, the MHP executives, and our Minister of Justice. I guess we'll just have to lower those boundaries a little bit with the motions we're going to give them. If those words are kept, you should really thank the Justice and Development Party for at least that kind of approach. Again, when I spoke to Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, I was told that there was going to be a change in that, but I'll tell you this: with or without the effects of alcohol or drugs that put traffic at risk, we put the traffic at risk because he wanted it to be. So this is the prepayment of people's crimes, which they call "the Hawk who appears to be born in traffic," which they call "the Hawk," which is to say, "Don't testify to the prosecutor," do what you want without sweating in front of the court, and do it by making it heavy for the second time." We have foreseen an arrangement like that. I strongly opposed it. Perhaps our opposition has been received seriously by Mr. Secretary, who has just announced that he has given good news that he will be removed from his prepayment. If that really were the case, then what we read in the papers is that we would have printed up, paid, and re-launched people who raced cars to show off to their peers, who threw scissors in front of the judge without sweating, which would have been wrong. If a change is accepted in this arrangement as we would like it to be, we should also thank the Justice and Development Party for that. Another clause, which we could not agree on, was in Article 19 of Law 5271, where transfers of cases and hearings were held. How was that possible? I mean, when a court said that for reasons of security, legal or subjugation, I wanted to transport it, it was appealing to an upper court. He was judging the transfer of the case or the trial. Or the Minister of Justice was applying to the Supreme Court's Attorney on the grounds of security. Now, here comes a new arrangement. With this arrangement, no court will be able to move a trial into the province without consulting anyone or asking anyone -- with subjective criteria. Oh, that's a positive thing, too. We've really made a lot of alliances in the Justice Commission, and we've created an objection. So, this court will decide on its own, is that all right? It's not. But there's been an objection. Now, lawmakers who practice law know. I'll tell you why we're against it. I was a lawyer at the Eskişehir Courthouse. When we went to military court in Eskişehir when we were practicing law, we looked like candles in front of the judge, the prosecutor. Why? Because the environment you're in, the environment you're defending, it's really affecting you. Now, these trials are envisioned at mass hearings in the courtrooms in which the hearings will be held. That's what this stuff was brought in for. Because of the prison rules inside, we feel that neither families, nor defendants, will have a good effect on the psychology of the defendants, nor will they be able to carry out their defence duties. But perhaps the Minister of Justice will arrange it, and we can thank him, if there's a good arrangement. We still have some very important things to say, but I'm running out of time. I thank the esteemed members of the Justice Commission and our Minister of Justice for the changes they made in the bill, at least in the voice of the opposition. I wish our nation well.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0127par0156	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. Ali Özkaya, MP of Afyonkarahisar, is the second speaker on behalf of the entire bill. Here you are, Mr. Ozkaya.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0128par0160	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I'd like to express my opinion on the entire bill of the Criminal Court Act and the amendment to certain Laws. This law is not a bag of laws, as our valued lawmakers have just said, because it is not by principle, because it is not by reason: it is the complete and similar changes in the same penal code and the same and similar property in the penal code, and it is presented in a wholety. Thus, being criticized by a bag of legal logic is not at least a righteous approach to the law. During the talks of this law, both the lower commission and the Justice Commission received a very, very important portion of the criticism of our fellow opposition parliamentary party members. Indeed, we, both our Minister and the EC PARTY Group, have scrutinized the ideas and proposals that the opposition has brought reasonably. Dear friends, there will now be a serious trial as part of this disaster that the PKK has caused to our country and our nation on July 15th. There will be cases of multiple defendants all over Turkey. In these cases, it's impossible to see these cases in the current courtrooms during the trial, because sometimes the number of defendants will be expressed in thousands. You can't judge them in the present courtroom in an environment where there are many defendants. At that time, the court will proceed with the transfer of the trial to a place in which the Justice Department and the courthouse, the state's attorney general's office, have studied and determined, without change within the borders of that province. It's a job that's been done in a lot of cases in the past, and it's still going on, but we're going to make it legal. Friends, the rules of law are set up for reasonable people in the middle mind. No judge makes such an unreasonable decision. In principle, it's the most accurate and easiest way to make a trial in the courtroom, and he doesn't go outside of it, and he doesn't judge anywhere else, but it's perfectly justified that the defendants, lawyers, interveners, and the audiences who come there should take the appropriate measures to make a trial in a court of justice and not affect the scope of the courtroom and the fair trial. If the defendants or parties have any objections, they will be able to appeal to the other criminal court or the original criminal court, and they will be evaluated. Our esteemed MPs have also had some criticism of the 135, 139 and 140th articles of the Turkish Penal Code. They said here why the decision by the criminal court unanimous was made to the judicial justices of the peace. In the past, the court of justice was a court of law, a judge and a court of law. Today, there is no court of justice, there is no court of justice. Therefore, these are the judges in charge of the defence measures of the investigation, in part of the criminal trial, before the trial is even overturned. These judges make all the decisions in those processes. So, when there's a judge who's been authorized, who's doing this job, it's not exactly right to go on in another court. In addition, there were many criticisms due to the condition of the vote that measures in 135, 139, and 140 could not be taken in time by the republic's prosecutor's office. This problem is thus resolved and handed over to the justices of the peace. The catalogue crimes on 135, 139 and 140 will be added to three counts of crime, including organ trafficking, loan sharking, and the implementation of measures on the 135, 139 and 140 ▪ in terms of these crimes. We also focused on increasing the base limits of changes and crimes in a key part of the Turkish Penal Code. In recent cases of qualified fraud, there have been issues in which phone calls have been able to deceive people by introducing themselves as police, judges, prosecutors, bank clerks, and to seriously defraud their assets. To fight this more effectively, the lower limit of this crime is increased. Again, the amount of punishment for prostitution and gambling is increased, which is very few. The streets, especially in large cities, were not allowed to pass business cards on prostitution and prostitution, but the police were not successful because there was no sanction in the fight. Here is a more effective method of combat and the method will be applied by being sentenced from one year to three years. The Constitutional Court's articles (1) of Article 103 of the Turkish Penal Code, and (2) on the basis of the cancellation of sexual abuse. For all children under 15 years of age here, anyone under 18 is considered a child, but there are more penalties for those under 15 years of age. The Constitutional Court said: "There is no separation between the 12-year-olds and the 12-year-olds and the 12-15 in the 1093 and (2), and the Constitutional Court has raised ground sentences on both counts of this crime for two years in accordance with the grounds of the Constitutional Court's request and cancellations. Article 103 (1) The lower sentence in the sentence was increased from eight to ten years to sixteen years to eighteen years in the third joke, and in both sentences increased. As for the soldiers, many crimes cannot be allowed to be postponed in the Military Penal Code, which Mr. Cemal Okan Bey has just said. Each discipline is self-assessed. So it can't be applied here, it's applied on the other side, it's not a very fair criticism. There are also serious changes in the two important prepayments and settlements that we bring to our Criminal Code. Of the 1,460,000 criminal cases, only 1,167 have been paid in advance, dear friends. That's one in a thousand. Compromise around three in a thousand. Now, we're raising the prepayment limit from three months to a year, making sure that more crimes are covered. And in reconciliation, we're taking three more crimes into consideration. We take the crime of threat, simple theft, and three simple forms of fraud as a compromise, so that there will be more compromises on this issue, and the alternative solution will be solved, and the problem will be solved with peace. That's important, too. Again, since it's less than two years under arrest, we assure you that the penalty will be removed from this exception to the special act. So, here we are, getting the judge to have a broader appreciation for the arrest of a lunatic on the bus, or for some of the actions in society that have actually given birth to a great deal of infrequency. In this way, judges will have a more effective battle. Again, the continuation of detention: at the top five-year limit, if the trial is over and it has to be evacuated, then the court is forced to release the person under judicial control, as in the Malatya case, and then can't arrest him again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, here, we're giving you an additional year for aggravated criminal offenses, plus three months for other crimes, so that the court may be able to end the trial in this process, and that many criminally convicted will not disappear under judicial control, and that judgment and judgment will result. On this occasion, I think this law will be a very important contribution to our legal community. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0129par0178	Thank you, Mr. Ozkaya. Mr. Special, I believe you have a request. Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0130par0183	Mr. President, thank you. When we asked a member of a parliamentary staff and a member of the Legislature's Decisions Unit, one of their closest colleagues, a member of parliament, who, apparently, had an assigned computer, we saw a shared share of swearing, numerous insults, accusations, and unspeakable insults about another party in our parliament. And then we're doing a back-to-back scan of both our president and our lawmakers, and they've got a share of insults and curses that I can't express here, and it's open to everyone. What's bad about this is that the Laws sitting here on the stand decide that our hands, feet, everything -- we've been sharing in public, doing it for months -- that when we get to the stand, these friends who respect us, they don't have an investigation, they don't have a prosecution. Mr. Kubat just asked the ruling party, and I gave him copies. Under the roof of this parliament of such a person... we have seen these insults shared every day in front of the staff we call our eyes and eyes... who may be sitting next to each other in the mess hall, taking the same elevator, and taking the same elevator on the road, and even at the secret sessions of this General Assembly, calling it Laws Decisions. Really, I just explained it to you, so we're in shock as a group. What should we tell the Speaker, the Secretary General, his ranking superiors? How do these things happen, what do they have the courage to do? When you see what they're sharing on his page, you'll see what he's already got, who he's got, and how he's got the courage. After this time...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0131par0188	I'm turning on your microphone, complete, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0130par0189	I can't say for this level. I mean, he's mean, he's mean, he's uncharacteristic, but, you know, a compliment goes a long way. We wanted this person to be called, and frankly, we couldn't believe that maybe there was a hope, or something, my account was seized. The head of the Laws said that he knew this person first, and then he didn't know him, and he couldn't reach his phone or anything, but when we got a little bit of an inside response, they called each other right away. Now, I don't know what to do about it, but no matter what's done, no matter what's done, it's not in any way possible that the chief who's been staring us in the eye on that bench hasn't been aware of this person's public sharing. I'm asking you, Mr. President, to take a break from the merger. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is not possible for this person to run away, not to come, not to turn off his phone, to work on a chair controlled by the chief. Let's discuss what we're going to do inside, but I'd like you to take a break from the merger, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0132par0193	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0133par0195	We just received a photo of the Republican People's Party Deputy Director of the Party about what our friend has expressed. It's probably not the tweet, I guess...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0130par0196	Facebook.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0133par0197	It could be Facebook because it means a lot. I think it's 140 characters. There is a subject that exceeds a measure of criticism, with unpleasant statements over the photo of the late governor of Mardin Derik, Mohammed Fatih Safiturk. Surely the Speaker of Parliament has something to do with this... I hope, I hope, is an account, not a real account, because I don't think a person who serves in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has the right to swear at a political party. Anyone can express their opinion clearly, but no one should have the right to swear. If Turkey is a member of the Grand National Assembly, it must act immediately as the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. But whoever he is, he has no right to swear at the representative of a political party or the leader of the political party or its corporate personality, to remain critical, no matter who he is. Again, if this person is a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I would like to say that the Speaker of Parliament must do it immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit02spe0134par0200	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. I have just been informed of the subject expressed by Mr. Special (Special) and by Mr. Elitas. Mr. Special has given me an example of this person's social media sharing. Really, the statements in this share are not acceptable. Of course, everyone, whether he's a civil servant, has the right to do all sorts of criticisms on social media or other areas, and he can criticize political parties, but no one has the right to insult a politician or a citizen. If this person is a civil servant, of course, the criminal case, the other cases, these are separate issues, of course, within the framework of the law, the issues that may be the subject of the civil suit, or perhaps the public case, if it should be brought to trial, that is another matter, but the procedures required by the agency, which he is a member of as a civil servant, must be carried out under the State Officers' Law. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will undoubtedly do what he has to do with this person, and I would never want to think otherwise. And I'm going to follow that. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0134par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 22nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 438. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Members of parliament, the talks on the entire bill for groups and individuals were over.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0135par0009	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0134par0010	Mr. Akçay, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0135par0014	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Republican People's Party Party has just brought up a private matter, and it appears that, unfortunately, a member of the House staff has been involved in some of our heavy insults, some social sharing. We, the National Movement Party Group, would like to say that everyone, all citizens of the Republic of Turkey, meanwhile, may, of course, have the right to make a decision, but in expressing everyone's opinion and opinion, it has to be measured, respectful, respectful, legal, and absolutely undisputable; this is not an excusable situation. We're waiting for the Speakership and the administration to make the necessary arrangements on this matter. Our president, Mr. State Gardener, has a beautiful expression: There is freedom in love, there is obligation to respect. Therefore, there is a obligation in our society to maintain respect. On this occasion, Mr. President, last week our MP, Mr. Saffet, came to the attention of a camera in Sandzaklı's room, and he said that he had started working on it. In all the time that's passed, we haven't yet learned what kind of results have been achieved by these studies. There's no way it's gonna take this long to...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0136par0018	I'm turning on your microphone, Mr. Akchay, complete.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0135par0019	We don't think it requires a study that will take a very long time. We know there's a lot of technical work, there's a lot of criminal work going on, and there's a lot of information going on. We'd like to ask the General Assembly to brief us on that, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0136par0021	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I'm going to do a QA on the whole bill. Mr. Arslan, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0137par0027	I'm asking the Minister of Justice: Do you intend to change the position of Republican Prosecutor Murat Inam, who has been charged with the investigation against Cumhuriyet daily's executives and writers, who are demanding arrests? Two: The work of the judiciary is a little more concentrated every day, and many judicial decisions are delayed. When you are on board, justice is not justice. Do you intend to make new measures and practices to strengthen the judiciary, increase the number of employees for justice by acting on the principle of justice? Three: After the coup attempt on July 15th, files on investigations and arrests, statements and evidence made due to a confidentiality decision are not visible in any way. When will this confidentiality order be lifted? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0138par0031	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0139par0032	Mr. President, instead of the staff we were talking about earlier, we went with the members of the House. This is the computer where he writes those sentences, those unacceptable slanders, insults from his mouth. We brought this to the General Assembly; it's government property. We'd like to file a report and have this examined immediately. The law is that every computer that's open in decisions and next door is a friend of this man and he's real. As we move forward from their own timimeline, that person's shares that we just talked about can be accessed by all of his friends, Mr. President. To have this processed and examined immediately, and to have this account accessed by the relevant department of the House with an official application, somehow it will try to access its own password from somewhere else. It's an account he opened on behalf of members of the House. In addition, as an investigation has been launched in Congress, all personnel who are friends of this person, who are aware of these shares and do not report these shares to their ranking superiors, are being investigated by the Parliament for such shameless insults... the position where these personnel work, how they are equipped, how they insult the position, the position, and the table of the hundreds of other Republican People's Party. I demand that this be processed immediately. It is said that the scoundrel came here but was suspended because of our reaction. We'll deal with him in front of the law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...but we'll deal with those who gave him the courage, those who didn't do the necessary procedures, those who laughed at the CHP on the stand, and those who held this staff in their laps, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0140par0039	Thank you, Mr. Special. Now, I'm going to promise the government answers, but before that, I'd like to present a matter to the General Assembly's attention, to its knowledge. As I said before I took a break from the merger, the investigation into this person, the person in question, will be carried out by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's impossible to accept the social media sharing of the remembered person; it's impossible to tolerate; it's insulting, it's slanderous. These are statements that would not suit a Turkish Grand National Assembly employee, but a human being. The necessary procedures will be carried out by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; no one, no one, nor any of our MPs will doubt them. Secondly, it is more appropriate for you, Mr. Special, to file a report where you want it, because wherever it was taken from, wherever it was made, the friends who did it should set it up with a report and submit it to the Turkish Grand National Assembly as a basis for the investigation necessary; this is the appropriate one. As Deputy President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I would like to inform you that I will follow this, that I will take full care of it with all due diligence.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0141par0044	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0140par0045	Now, friends, these talks are taking place within the scope of the question-answer process. I'll make a promise to Mr. Special, as there are no other MPs entering the system for the question, but before Mr. Spectacle, I see Mr. Mush's request, but Mr. Elitaş, did you enter?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0142par0046	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0140par0047	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0142par0048	Mr. President, when you had just stopped, we had a meeting with the Speaker of Parliament, who had been under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to share these tweets or social media sharings, and who had no right to insult or blaspheme any political party, and we have stated immediately that he had no right to do so, and that his investigation should be launched, and that is what our Speaker of Parliament has instructed. I'd like to point out from my supervisor, Mr. Goodman... that this business is now under way. We view this insult to the Republican People's Party as blasphemy, not just as an insult to the Republican People's Party, but as an insult to all political parties, and underline the need, no matter who it is, to do so. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0143par0051	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. I'd also like to inform you that the remembered staff has come this far, but we didn't want to meet with him there -- the members of the group, the Deputy Speaker, me and the Minister -- even though we were there. I mean, it's not for us to question a staff like that. I personally asked him to be sent away from here. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0144par0054	Mr. President, it's happened many times now, and if this computer spends the night with us tonight, they'll be able to upload it in any incriminating evidence that comes out of it. Therefore, I will be called to the Security Department of the Assembly... and we will deliver this to them when the General Assembly is open here. As of tomorrow, the charges against him will be placed in trust until they are handed over to the authorities and authorities in the investigations. I'm putting this computer here somewhere in front of all of us. And it would be perfectly correct for this computer to take the deposit to a briefcase that was forgotten in the House. In addition, the person's desk has a lot on it, from the head of the Turkish Grand National Assembly to the Ministry of Development, to the General Staff, to a number of extremely suspicious images of all official plates being held by their own hands, in the drawers of his desk, in his eyes. We're facing an extremely dangerous situation. There's no way we can keep this safe as CHP. We'll put it in the middle of the House, whatever the House is doing when it's empty, the Chiefs of Police in the House will do the same thing to this vault, and they'll take the trust. Thank you very much, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0145par0058	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0146par0059	Mr. Elistash, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0147par0060	That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0148par0061	Yes, brother.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0149par0062	Yeah, why not? There's no reason why not. What's the big deal?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0150par0063	It's already done.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0149par0064	He'll be secured on the way out.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0151par0065	Mr. President, look, this job, what that person is doing, it's unacceptable work, but this job, it's completely against the law.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0152par0066	Maybe he brought those pictures there himself.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0151par0067	Mr. Special just corrected it, and we'll allow it. He said. The officers who should be doing this are the Chief of Parliament and the Court of Parliament. So he did the right thing there -- I wish this was in his room. The legislature's office immediately initiated these proceedings. So, please, I beg you, if everyone tries to solve an injustice to themselves directly, then the confusion will come with it. Mr. Private, we've just confiscated this, we've taken it under leave, we're going to have it examined. He's fixed his thing with a statement just now. Please make sure that the necessary locations, our chief of staff, and the Parliamentary Court of Presidents show the necessary sensitivity. Now, law enforcement, whoever's gonna do it, do it now.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0153par0068	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Now, what's appropriate, Mr. Special, is that whatever action is being done for the object here from the moment the activities of the General Assembly are completed, or demanding it, is not enough to ensure that this computer is secure. The right thing to do is put it in a proper box, sealed and sealed. That's what you do in law, that's what you do in law. This report can be signed by the relevant lawmakers, by the administration chief, even by me, and is handed over to the Parliamentary Administration.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0154par0070	Okay, that's fine, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0153par0071	When this box is opened, all signed personnel are present, so it is opened and processed. So, I suggest you do it, I suggest you do it. It's not appropriate to leave it there, but to take it from there and put it in a box and write it down the way I said it would.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0154par0072	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0153par0073	These talks took place within the scope of the question-answer process. He's moved in a slightly different direction, but I see the Minister still has nine minutes of government time to answer questions. If there's not enough time, I'll give you an extension, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0155par0076	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to point out that I'm condemning a member of the House to make assessments of the Republican People's Party and its officials that no one here can accept. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Presidential Court, I'm sure that whoever did this wrong, will make the necessary administrative inquiries about the vigilante, will implement the necessary procedures. I don't have the slightest doubt about it. I would like to say that I am very pleased that all political parties present at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have agreed on this issue. As for the questions, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are one of the prosecutors conducting the investigation of the Cumhuriyet daily, Murat Inam. It's a job that is appreciated by his apartment; I, as Minister, do not have the authority to replace any prosecutor, nor is it my duty, but HSYK 1. It's a matter of appreciation from his apartment. As far as I know, the Istanbul Public Prosecutor's Office has assigned three additional prosecutors to this investigation, and they are continuing the investigation. Regarding Murat Inam, I have already stated, he requests once to hear about the cases of the trial, and this request is granted by the court. The HSYK, as you know, has made some assessments of judges and prosecutors who have been considered to be a member of the Fetullahist terrorist group, or in contact with them, and has decided that it is not appropriate for them to remain in the profession, and there have been those suspended from the profession. I also received information from the HSYK after the debate here to see if there was such a transaction on Murat Inam (HSYK) had been done or had not been done; and I would like to repeat it here once again: Murat Inam is not a member of the Fetullahist terrorist organization or a member of this organization, even though he is accused of this trial and has asked for such a hearing, but the opinion in HSYK and HSYK is that there is no doubt that he is a member of the Fetullahist terrorist organization or a member of this organization. However, the public opinion of the HSYK, as I just said, had such a connection, we would have dealt with it as well. But that's their current assessment.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0156par0079	Why is he being sued, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0155par0080	No, the trial continues. The decision that comes out of there... if there is a decision that comes out, as the indictment claims, as it is, it will be carried out by the HSYK. But I present to you the current situation, otherwise, I don't know much more about him than I do about him. The acceleration and strengthening of the judiciary, the fact that justice is not a late justice, of course, we've taken some very serious steps. One of them will be the activation of the account, the criminal trial and the judicial trial, a significant portion of the administrative trial will be finalized in the indictment. This is an extremely important reform. We're bringing in intermediaries on business discrepancies, which will be discussed in Parliament in the coming months. That's a very important step. The package we're going to discuss today is expanding the scope of compromise and increasing efficiency, expanding the scope of the prepayment, and bringing new steps on alternative discrepancies. This will benefit from that point of view. We have now established a commission on the Law on Executive and Bankruptcy. There, too, will be an important reform that will reduce the workload and speed it up. And the work of this has come to an end. Also, our commissions are working on new alternative solutions that will reduce the workload in both administrative and judicial trial, and will resolve conflicts without going to trial. We'll bring it to Parliament in the coming months. In order to speed things up, of course, we've made serious increases in the number of judges, prosecutors, we've increased the number of assistant staff, we've equipped the judiciary with IT systems. The UYAP system has really made a lot of things easier and faster, but we need to take it all further. As a minister, we're open to any suggestions. If any suggestions come from you, we will carry them out. We also work on our own, studying comparative law. We also care to carry what's there, as long as it's in accordance with our law. I'd like to point out that we're going to take some new steps in the new era. The removal of the confidentiality order in the investigations, of course, is entirely a matter of the discretion of the investigative authorities. It's not possible for me to give you any date for privacy or removal as Department of Justice; it's a matter of judgment. Investigators of the judiciary will make an assessment of it, and they'll make an assessment of it. Our desire is that they get up as early as possible and not exceed a reasonable period of time. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit03spe0157par0088	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0157par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 22nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of Bill 438. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first chapter covers Articles 1 to 20. I'll make a promise to the groups first, then to the individuals. The first speaker for the groups is Kamil Aydın, Erzurum MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0158par0011	Dear President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the first chapter of the First Section of the Law on the Amendment in some Laws under Penal Code 438. I salute the High Council. Respected lawmakers, you know, people are constantly emphasising concepts like law, right, equality, justice while they're fulfilling their ideals for public life. In fact, from the most primitive societies to the most systematic state structures, we see a very clear manifestation of this kind of emphasis. We see it in Western communities, and we see it in Eastern communities. I mean, there's always some sort of order or systemic structure that's always the most emphasised, rights, justice, equality when it's discussed. In fact, sometimes when we talk, we use these concepts, especially to express its importance, in words and words. Like, what is it? ▪ Justice is the foundation of property. Everyone is equal in the face of the law. In fact, he makes it a little more spiritual, and then the lamb at the edge of the furnace is asked for its rights. Now, why all these references? Indeed, it is our quest for justice, justice and law that we see clearly. When we look at the historical process of this, it's in the Western system that begins with Socrates. Especially in societies, when it comes to corruption, disorder, the unhealthy use of power, what are the explicit references to? On the one hand, when it comes to the harshest duties, it's emphasised on the priorities of rights, law, justice. So, in this tradition, you can see, as the starting point of the Western community, this is very clear in Plato, who advocates an ideal state order, and then there's Aristotle. What is it? In a very simple sentence, they say in creating an ideal society, sir, in the context of equality and justice, it is said that the justice of the poet is involved. Even in a tragedy game, it is used very clearly. What is it? Do not see any good in return for doing a good deed, nor see any evil in return for doing an atom's weight of evil. This was later, indeed, very clearly rewarded by the coming dates and the divine texts. What is it? That's justice, that's law. He who does an atom's weight of good shall be recompensed for it, and he who does an atom's weight of evil shall be recompensed for it. This became divine justice, and then, as a concept, it began as the poet's justice, but later became divine justice. Now, look, democracy is a regime of rules, very briefly. What is it? There are rules that bind us. These are the legal systems, they are the rules, they are the rules, and they are the constitutional texts that are binding on them. What are the Constitutional texts? Social contracts, binding rules are logic. Here we are, all of our strength, whatever our position, whether it be judgment or execution, let us be members of the legislature, we take all of our power from the constitution, which is the meaning of these rules. Now, respected lawmakers, with this regulation of law, there's also the removal of really needed materials, but on the other hand, the setbacks in the application drive us to a little bit of pessimism. Yes, the reason for the exit, the reason for the construction, has been very precise and decisive. To make this a little more concrete, the goal is to increase the deterrent of punishments, and the goal, sir, is to maintain public order and build confidence in the justice system. I mean, why would we try to raise the fines? It can't just be a pleasure to punish you sadisticly. What is it? The goal here is to build trust in the establishment of public order and justice. But, you know, to make it a little more concrete, I'd like to repeat under a few topics: simple and qualified fraud, yes, with a deterrent at the point of enhancement, of course, it can be considered a proper arrangement. Eliminating a number of conditions that increase dangerous substances, drug addiction, some environments, fighting them, selling them, selling them, marketing them, creating environments that allow them to move freely, yes. In cases that endanger traffic safety, a number of criminal charges have been increased. Unfortunately, when we look at the things that we've seen in a year, in particular, what we've seen, yes, at the point of deterrent, it's something that has to happen. Again, there is no problem in promoting bad habits such as gambling, creating opportunities to play, providing support for such structures, and increasing criminal action. Another topic, another thought, children's sexual abuse. Of course, it's very important, and the events that we've had in the last few years have expressed our determination, with greater precision, to take some preventive measures in this great House. Organ and tissue trafficking. This is really a crime that's starting to spread in our country, God forbid. And there's nothing wrong with taking the necessary precautions here. Another matter is to listen, to take certain precautions regarding privacy. Now, look, we have no objection to actually fighting these criminally related topics, but we have problems in practice. We care very much that the practitioners, not only do they have power over themselves, but do not forget that their power is justice, law, and the Constitution. Why? Because once pleasure is involved, God forbid, a step in the name of justice, in the name of the law, in the name of justice, on the contrary, causes injustice, unlawfulness, and transgression. I mean, George Orwell's word comes out, doesn't it? At the end of the day, all are equal, the authoritarian who holds the power -- this could be the manager of the property, the mayor, sir, the prosecutor, the judge -- what does it turn into, sir? Yes, everyone is equal, but some are more equal. God forbid, what does that do? It creates a chaotic environment, causing justice and law to go shopping. Now, therefore, from here, yes, we have expressed our reservations about these substances. That's right, we'll say "yes" and "what" and "restraint" and "restraint" in particular, and we said: "If it contributes positively to public order, we'll make the crown, if it increases respect for the law, if it increases respect for the law, we'll say "yes" again, but I'm afraid there's a problem today if it's down to 30 percent of the law." We think we should consider it and do some really deep analysis on it. As the National Movement Party, we always say, first, let's stick to law, first, right, right. This, no matter what, under any circumstances, under any circumstances. Why am I stressing this in particular? Because we're having a hard time. Believe me, right now, we're getting so many complaints about illegality that, in spite of the authorities' instructions, someone will step up from the situation and use their position to act in a more royal logic than a king, sir, I'll bring it to any position I want, I'll develop an election system, I'll do what I want. I'll do what I want. Is that something a mayor can say, for God's sake? Yes, I will bring service to that village, but I will see how many votes have been cast from that village, and I will bring service to us according to it. So, without making these kinds of mistakes, right, the law... everybody needs the law. As we said in the beginning, one day... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think the day we learn to think about not doing what shouldn't be done to us is the day the law will be judged by God's will and the public order will be established. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0159par0031	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Kazim Arlen, Denizli MP. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0160par0035	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. Today we're negotiating the Penal Code of 438 rows on the Law on Changes in Some Laws. I've made a promise on behalf of my group, and I'd like to share my opinion of the general. Dear lawmakers, there are now many changes, especially in the judiciary, and many reform-based laws have been discussed. It was called reform, but behind the reform we have faced a point where the judiciary can't work, where the judiciary can't really work, justice can't be distributed well, and trust in the judiciary is reduced every day. Here, today's arrangement is similar. And the interesting thing is, this bill is actually set up like a bag of laws, but it's called a basic law, in which there's a lot of regulations for a lot of laws. So there's a military sentence in this bill, there's an executive bankruptcy, there's an arrangement for the business court, there's an arrangement for the Turkish Penal Code, there's an arrangement for the Turkish Armed Forces Internal Service Law, there's an arrangement for the Department of Justice's organization and its functioning, there's an regulation on the judicial record, there's an regulation on the Law on Law on Laws, there's regulations on punishment and safety measures. Now, if you bring such a large arrangement in the form of a fundamental law, in order to implement it, you can't reconcile it with other laws. At many points, my dear friends, it will be clear that there will be setbacks. Now, many arrangements have been made in the past. For example, there has been a change in the Law on Emancipation and Bankruption, and an arrangement has been made to determine which of the foreclosures and the foreclosures, so that the debtor's property, if he executes it today, can't find it, unfortunately. So, unfortunately, you've ended up bringing the executive offices to work by bringing in an arrangement that doesn't really protect the creditors, protect the debtor, where there's a con artist, where there's really a con man, where there's a fraud, protects them. So today, no lawyer friend of ours can do his job at the courthouses, in the executive offices, and there's no money to collect. You know what happens after all? They're reflected back into the market, causing the market to block. If the shopkeeper doesn't get what he's getting, how's he gonna pay? What happens when you can't pay? He goes to the bank, he borrows money, and then he's desperate to pay off his debts. My dear friends, we must make arrangements at a point where both the creditors will protect the debtor and the debtor, in a way that protects both the plaintiff and the defendant, in a way that will bring true justice and ensure trust in justice. Unfortunately, you're making everything happen in all your arrangements, and the result is, really, it's not the expected outcome. You're uncovering justice, unfortunately, which has been a complete failure. Now, my dear friends, for once, we must always put the rule of law ahead of us. If the Republic of Turkey is a social state, if it is a social law state, we must first promote law, protect law in all areas, protect rights, protect people's future, and give the country and citizens confidence. If a political power can't provide that, then it's not doing its job. If injustices arise when seeking justice, there will certainly be no peace there, no peace there, no good public order there. My dear friends, where justice doesn't take place now, citizens' confidence in the judiciary will be reduced every day. If the borrower is afraid to go to the executive office to get what he is owed, if the plaintiff is afraid to get what he's getting, to get what he's getting, to get what he's getting, to get what he's getting, if he's afraid to go to the courthouse, I'll face the expenses I'm making. Other than that, I don't get what I get, I don't get what I get. If he says that such a judicial order must be changed, and the right to justice must be made more practical, easier to achieve justice. For that, for once, the judiciary must be independent. If you constantly intervene in the judiciary, bring up regulations that will not be subject to the judiciary at all times, tie the hand of a judge with many regulations, in accordance with the law, if you really prevent him from making decisions based on his conscience, there is absolutely no way that you will ever be able to do justice. Then you'll be undermining the rule of law. My dear friends, Mr. Secretary, once the burdens of the courts must be lightened. At a time when there was such a burden in the courthouse, instead of dealing with things that wouldn't really be possible, you would never be able to make a quick and fair decision there if you tried to get the real right to work on the work of the law instead of the waste of time. The search for rights must be cheap. So if there's an economic burden coming to search for the right of a citizen, if he can't handle it, if he's afraid to apply, I definitely think it's necessary to take precautions. My dear friends, I've just asked Mr. Minister two questions, and I said, did you do anything about reviewing the situation of the friend who is the prosecutor who is investigating the Cumhuriyet daily, and making a change in duty with Murat İnan? Mr. Secretary, do you read me, sir? You told me that this mission is for the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Aren't you a member of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors? Can't you just bring it up there and see if you can change that? You're running away from this mission when you can find it because it's not working for you. Look, do you have any idea what you've done when it suits you? You immediately removed the prosecutor who handled the Lighthouse case, the prosecutor who filed the case, you replaced him with another prosecutor, and you punished the prosecutor who did it, and you put him in jail. It wasn't enough; you removed that investigation into December 17th and 25th, the prosecutor who was investigating corruption, you replaced him with another prosecutor, and you arrested those prosecutors. You're the one who did this, Minister.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0161par0048	It wasn't me, it was the HSYK.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0160par0049	On your orders, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors carried out this mission. There's no other way they could have done this mission. Be just, be just, because you'll need this justice one day. We all need justice for that, we all need law, friends. For him, we must all stick together in any arrangement that will not undermine the state of law, that will bring justice to justice. I really think we should contribute to the progress, development, development of the state of the Republic of Turkey towards becoming a state of law. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0162par0052	Thank you, Mr. lion. On behalf of Mehmet Gökdağ, Gaziantep MP. Here you are, Mr. Gökdağ.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0163par0056	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to talk to the esteemed MPs about the Law on Criminal Law and the Law on Changes in Some Laws 438 rows. I salute you all. Congressmans, when we look at the bill, we see changes in the Penal Code and in some of the provisions of the Turkish Penal Code, and in addition to these two basic laws, 10 laws have been changed. As these changes are being made, we can clearly see that the same law has contradictions with its other unchanging clauses. That's because when preparing the law, there's a sense of law enforcement without making the necessary discussion. Dear friends, we've said so many times in the bill we discussed before. If we're making a law, let's make it a law that we've actually discussed scientifically, that eliminates a lot of problems. As for the area we're setting up, let the citizens be at peace, let the trust come. And to do that, we use the common mind, we say it in all the plans together, so that we can contribute to the solution of the problem. But, for some reason, I did it, and your understanding of governance in logic shows itself in the field of law making, as it does in every field. In a hurry, you make the bills at once; in the same haste, we come to the commission with the same result, we pass the commission, and in the same way, we legislate them in the General Assembly. There's always an excuse for that. For example, the Law on Protection of Personal Data. Now, as the bill on this law was discussed, we, the Republican People's Party, said that this law was an important law, and that it should be carried out after a long period of healthy debate. At that time, the bill was adopted because it had to end on a fixed date in terms of the continuation of the European Union talks. So, what happened when the bill was passed? We were faced with the request by the European Union to change this law before the Personal Data Protection Board was formed, before that board was formed. Why? Because he's not responding to the need. Now, isn't it a shame about all the work, all the overtime? That's a shame. Now, you suggested that a clause, which the Constitutional Court has cancelled, should be removed in a hurry as we discuss the law that we're discussing, should be lifted as soon as possible. This has been done, but there's an arrangement that can be cancelled by the Constitutional Court again, without fully complying with the grounds of the Supreme Court's annulment. We'd like to issue a law on the annulment of the Constitutional Court in accordance with his justification. You're in a hurry to make an arrangement at the Constitutional Court that can be cancelled again. Dear friends, each of us has come here with the authority to represent in one area. No one has the right to run the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with an understanding of a puzzle. We have to use every minute of this place, every second of it to make laws in the interest of the people who are waiting to solve problems, that's our responsibility. As our country passes a very important threshold, we have a process in which the public is overwhelmed by economic problems, where terrorism takes life every day, while we really need to make arrangements that solve all of this, we have no right to use the time of the Turkish Grand National Assembly tomorrow, with the understanding that it can be cancelled by the Constitutional Court, with the understanding that it's over, with no use. We're going to find the right way to solve problems, and we're going to solve the problems of the people. Dear friends, the effective way is to bring forth the common mind. We do what we have to do by bringing forth the common mind, when we make the law, when we enforce it, when we govern it. Dear friends, this country has a common mind. The common mind of this country is the republic, the common mind of this country is democracy, secularism, the rule of law. The common mind of this country is Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I salute you all to meet in common.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0164par0066	Thank you, Mr. Gökdağ. İbrahim Halil Yıldız, MP of Şanlıurfa, the second speaker on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0165par0070	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the General Assembly's General Assembly agenda and on the First Amendment to some Laws. I salute your esteemed delegation. As it is known, this group, apparently members of the Fetullahist terrorist organization, used algebra and violence to eliminate the order the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey envisioned, who dared to destroy the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and prevent it from doing its requirements, attempted to eliminate the Republic of Turkey's government and prevent it from doing its duties, and attempt to assassinate the elected President of the people by his vote. Thanks to our nation's standing up to those who attempt a coup, praise be to God, this attempt has not reached its goal. Following this coup attempt on the night of July 15th, some legal changes were mandatory in order to be taken and to address some of the problems in the practice. Mr. President, I'd like to brief you on some of the provisions in the bill. Soldiers arrested for terror and attempted coup will be placed in Justice Department prisons instead of military prisons. Since military discipline is considered to lead to weaknesses in its facility, military crimes that can be paid in advance are limited to three months of crimes that do not exceed the limit of the law's prison sentence. The Law on Laws No. 6100 improves monetary boundaries by changing the law on harmonisation of the monetary limit envisioned by law enforcement and appeals. In this scope, it is decided that the envisioned monetary limits will be increased by the rate of revaluement. The 2nd chapter of the Turkish Penal Code 5237 of which soldiers have committed is estimated to be guilty of crimes defined in the 2nd book, 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th chapters, and under the Anti-Terror Act 3713, and to be placed in custody by these law enforcement officers when they are arrested. In this way, it is intended that the investigation process be carried out faster and more effectively by handing over the suspects to law enforcement officers tasked with conducting the investigation. In Article 103 of the Turkish Penal Code, a step is determined as a punishment is set in accordance with the grounds set in the Constitutional Court's decision on child sexual abuse. In the event the victim is under 12 years of age, this law envisions increased punishment. The lower limit of the sentence for a qualified fraud is from two years to three years, the upper limit is from seven to ten years. The perpetrator of the fraud charge will be sentenced to at least four years in prison if he says that he is involved in police, judge, prosecutor; bank, insurance or credit institutions. Again, the law also regulates the unlawful possession or acceptance of materials used in making explosives and reduces the sentence from three to four years. In addition, if the crime is committed as part of the organisation's activities, there will be a onefold increase instead of a half rate. Again, the lower limit to the charge of endangering traffic safety has been increased from one month to three months. In the bill, the lower limit of the sentence, which is deemed a crime by increasing the penalty for gambling and accession, is increased from one month to one year, while the upper limit is increased from one year to three days; the lower limit of the criminal fine is set at two hundred days. The bill allows the court to conduct the hearing elsewhere within the province on grounds of actual reasons or security; the request to be released in terms of organised crime is ordered within seven days. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to thank you for your contribution in the process of enforcing this bill to our nation and the judicial community, which I think will be an important contribution to Turkish law. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0166par0085	Thank you, Mr. Star. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There's a motion on article 1 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the First Amendment be changed in the following way. In Article 1-22/5/1930, arrest warrants have been issued in Article 39/32 and Article 4 of the Military Penal Code (4) of Article 39/32, "The Second Book of the Turkish Penal Code is carried out in Article Four, Fifth, Sixth and Seventh, and the 12/4/1991 and under Article 3713 and under the Law on Anti-Terror Law, dated 13/12/2004. Arrest warrants for all other crimes against military persons are carried out in military detention as long as the military maintains that title." Ömer Suha Aldan Mehmet Gökdağ Necati Yılmaz Orhan Sarıbal Cemal Okan Yüksek Zeynel Emre Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0167par0099	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0166par0100	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0168par0101	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0166par0102	Orhan Sarıbal wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0169par0105	Mr. President, there was a meeting at the illegal palace on November 14th. The meeting was called the "Millial Agriculture Project" (also known as the National Agriculture Project). A ring of what we call a national collapse project has been described. The minister, the Prime Minister and the President announced their views on the collapse project in agriculture that day, but the President is persistently holding one job at a time, insisting that he owns every profession in this country and wants to be one. He wanted to be a shepherd there, too. We couldn't understand why he wanted to be a shepherd, but in his world and in his state of mind, he wanted to be. So I wanted to share what's the difference between the shepherding of the illegal palace and the shepherding of the Anatolian geography in Turkey as the shepherd of a family with three hundred years of historical history, whose entire backgrounds have become shepherds, and myself as a shepherd of high school seniors.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0170par0106	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0169par0107	Mr. President, you should know that Anatolian shepherding is an honorable, precious profession that drives and sustains animals in Anatolia.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0170par0108	Get to the point. You have nothing to talk about.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0169par0109	This profession is our way of life, our bread, our water. The shepherd is reliable, and he never brings his flock home hungry, but Mr. President, in your country, one million people are hungry and 20 million people live under the poverty line.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0171par0110	Where is it? Where is it?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0169par0111	Mr. President, take a look at the hungry and poor in this country; consider what the responsibility is to be a shepherd before becoming a shepherd, what its values are. Mr. President, the shepherd is trustworthy.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0172par0113	He trusts people, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0169par0114	He doesn't take away a herd of shepherds, he takes it away, he brings it right back. He doesn't discriminate. For example, too much water doesn't give someone less water; it certainly doesn't give someone too much food, someone less food. At least he's a Democrat, he doesn't discriminate.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0173par0115	You're putting people in sheep's clothing?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0174par0116	He's making people look like sheep! What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0169par0117	But let's take a look at the country you want to run. In this country, in 2002, $230 billion in GDP.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0175par0118	Are you calling people packs? What are you talking about? What do you say?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0169par0119	You gave 39 percent of it to a 1 percent class. Fourteen years have passed, which is AKP's ruling period.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0175par0120	You've memorized it, you're reading it. There's nothing else.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0169par0121	You've got an illegitimate national agent for $800 billion. You gave 52 percent of it to a 1 percent class. Mr. President, no shepherd fights in his pack. He's a pacifist, for example, a libertarian.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0175par0122	You're saying it's a lot. Brother, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0169par0123	Let's look at this country. In one year, 2,000 people died because of terrorism, business accidents, traffic accidents, major incidents. Mr. President, in this country, shepherds don't betray their bread, their food, their drink. Mr. President, shepherds are liberal in this country, for example.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0176par0126	You don't know what you're talking about.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0169par0127	They're on the side of friendship and brotherhood. They fight over bread. Mr. President, you're encouraging a fight in this country, raising a fight in this country. In this land you have divided friendship and brotherhood, and have not forsaken friendship and brotherhood. There's incredible discrimination in this country now. Turks, Kurds, Alevis, Sunnis, Arabs...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0176par0129	You're doing it, you're doing it. You're doing it.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0169par0130	Unfortunately, no one in this country is looking at anyone; two villagers are not sitting next to each other in coffee. You brought discrimination into the village, all the way to the village. Even the farmer in the village couldn't order tea anymore. Mr. President, you know, you've been a deputy, you've been mayor, you've been prime minister, you've been president...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0177par0132	There's going to be a president, too, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0169par0133	Sorry, you won't be a shepherd. Shepherding is something else. It's one thing to be a shepherd, Mr. President. We have only one wish: do not cast shadow! Don't be a shadow! That's all we want.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0178par0135	People gave it to me, all right. If you're a man, be a man!
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0169par0136	Go, and do your duty within the borders of the Constitution, and obey the Constitution, and keep your oath. From here, I pay my respects and my love to the shepherds of all Anatolian geography. Thank you all. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0179par0141	Thank you, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0180par0142	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0179par0143	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0180par0144	In the last ten years, they have insulted the group, claiming that we have divided society in 14 years.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0179par0145	He made a mockery of it. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0180par0150	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I answered a similar speech yesterday. So I don't want to repeat the expression. But from time to time, I'm telling you that it's not appropriate for a small group of people in society who don't respond, who just love themselves, who may applaud, have no horizons, have no vision, to speak from the palace -- from the sheep, from the shepherd, from the shepherd -- with a text that's nothing more than this -- to speak here, to the metaphor of this Assembly, the weight of the assembly, and especially the weight of the CMK that we're meeting. As a teenager, I'm uncomfortable with it, but I'm not bothered by it as an AK PARTY. It's the attitude that doesn't grow on you. It's the attitude that people have been hitting you from one side to the other for 15 years. Why would the people vote for you? What did you say ten minutes ago, other than insulting the President?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0181par0153	Twenty-five percent people, right?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0180par0154	All our people know what the sheriff is, starting with "You're all shepherds."
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0181par0155	Twenty-five percent people, right?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0180par0156	He knows his fiction. You're the only one who doesn't know. But again, I don't know how you're so different and so far away from the public. If you had taken it in your hand and said, "You're missing something in this clause," maybe your constituent would have respected you more. Again, we've been here 15 years. But it's not just our success, it's your big contribution. We -- keep it up -- we're very comfortable, very content. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The less visionless, the less public talk like that, the more powerful the AK PARTY will continue to walk in its path, much more ambitious. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0182par0161	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0183par0162	Mr. President, I'd like to speak to you about what he said in terms of ill-advised, ill-advised, ill-advised.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0180par0163	Too low, Mr. President, too low.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0184par0164	You were just saying something about insulting me.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0185par0165	Here you go, I promise you for two minutes. Please don't challenge a new taunt, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0186par0168	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0187par0169	What were you saying in the previous session about the insult? You're doing it on the people's stand.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0186par0170	The valuable speaker told me. Again, very clear, very clear...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0188par0171	You go ahead, we'll settle.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0186par0172	The people are listening to us from here, very clearly, very clearly; the villagers and shepherds are watching us very clearly from here. Today the peasant has been destroyed in this country. The Prime Minister, knowingly, is lying to the public.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0189par0173	Come on, he's saying it.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0190par0174	You're telling me.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0186par0175	It's like this, the National Agriculture Project explains, it says: "We did a favor. He's giving it out of his pocket! The Prime Minister says that half of Mazot's warehouse is from me, half of you. We're looking at the 2017 budget -- you said, "Akam," you put it into the $12 billion budget as support for agriculture. So let's ask: if you're going to give half of the diesel -- the minister explained it in 2017. Look at the 2017 budget, you've put $720 million, 720 million. You put in 12 billion budgets, you use 4 billion liters of diesel, the farmer uses 4 billion liters of diesel. When you give 50 percent of this, 16 billion divided by 2 is 8 billion.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0189par0176	You don't know math. What kind of check is that?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0186par0177	You're going to give 8 billion of 12 billion of your support to mazota, and the rest is lies.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0191par0178	You're not cut out for that kind of work. You're not cut out for that. You go do the shepherding.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0186par0179	We're only saying this because of your lies. The public's fed up, everyone's fed up with your lies. The prime minister, the president, is lying to the farmer, looking the public in the eye.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0191par0180	You're the one who's lying.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0186par0181	Know that, take a look. Here, take a look at the department's report. You're selling the national collapse project to the public because it's your own national project. It's very clear.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0192par0182	Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0186par0183	I think the PM's gonna give it to you out of his pocket. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0193par0186	Thank you, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0194par0187	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0193par0188	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0195par0189	This people don't buy it, brother! What do you think the people are?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0196par0190	Come with me to Inegöl.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0197par0191	Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0195par0192	These people aren't what you think they are, they're smart.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0196par0193	Come, come.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0198par0194	Congressmans, one moment.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0196par0195	Come here and let's go to Inegöl.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0198par0196	Mr. Saribal, please.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0199par0197	Mr. President, we have no response to that tone. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit04spe0198par0200	Thank you, Mr. Turan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0198par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 22nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of Bill 438. The commission is in place. The government is in place. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 2 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. The following joke is added to Article 8 of the Law 2-1632. "Preparations are not carried out on just military offenses." Ömer Suha Aldan Mehmet Gökdağ Necati Yılmaz Cemal Okan Yüksel Mustafa Ali Balbay Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0200par0015	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0198par0016	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0201par0017	Yes, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0198par0018	Mustafa Balbay wants to talk about the motion, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0202par0021	Mr. President, Congressmans, I stand before you to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the work that envisions making changes to some of the provisions of the Penal Code. I salute you all. Dear friends, in law, there's a saying for all people, it's said that a man can promise that he will never commit a crime for the rest of his life, but he can't promise that he won't be judged at all, because when he doesn't expect it, he can come before a judge for a reason he doesn't expect. At that moment, knowing how a person is tried in court, whether he is tried or not, not only as a citizen, but also as a member of that country. Sadly, many articles of the CMK have been changed in Turkey, especially during AKP rulings, and people have lost their sense of being judged fairly. Friends, right now Turkey has almost as much CMK as the number of courts. So, in a sense, there's a CMK, not a Penal Code, but a CMK that each of the courts does separately. We have seen many examples of this, and the government now makes a change in CMC almost every season. One of the sentences used by those seeking the rights of the courts these days, lawmakers, is that there is nothing more that lawyers can do at this point in court. (When people are hiring lawyers, can we just get inside information, to see if they can bring information about the situation of our relatives?) Losing that emotion is a major flaw. In the current changes, for example, you bring many provisions that will also put their families in a difficult position regarding the criminal or the person on trial. Maybe you don't want to listen to this, but there are a lot of families coming to the House, and they say, "Please, can you let us talk to a AKP member?" And sometimes when we wait at the entrance and see an AKP MP, they avoid meeting them even when we say, "Come in." I can give you some of the names if Mr. Bulent wants them. The method of judgment you are currently implementing suggests a very common saying in Anatolia: "The Kantar, which you have corrupted, will weigh you in the future. " Those who have used the law very badly in the recently past seek justice and are no stranger to the wrongs done to themselves in the search of justice. Right now, more than 30,000 people are under arrest, and a large number of them don't know why they're under arrest, and they don't know how to prosecute. We're going through a process in which journalists, writers, judges, prosecutors, thousands of people, especially 10 writers and directors of the Cumhuriyet daily. My call to you today, members of lawmakers, is that if you change the procedure laws that are as important as crime as the trial, you will face many of them in the future. Therefore, I hope that you will not forget that the law will really be needed for everyone, and again, there is a saying in Anatolia, "Do not trust your beauty, just a pimple; don't trust your wealth, just a spark." At this time, we are in Turkey. I would like you to reconsider the changes that you are currently planning in this law, at least, but at least consider the arrangements that people's families will not be victims, that their families will not be in a difficult situation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0203par0031	Thank you, Mr. Balbay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 3 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "seven thousand" in Article 3 of "seven thousand" shall be changed to "three thousand" under Penal Code 438, which is currently in session. Muharrem Varlı Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Erkan Haberal Argi Erdem Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0204par0042	He doesn't care, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0203par0043	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0205par0044	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0203par0045	Arzu Erdem, İstanbul MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0206par0048	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 3 of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws under the Penal Code. My respects to the Veterans' House. Dear lawmakers, we're facing another bag of laws and multiple amendments to legislation. The bill we are negotiating includes provisions that have no links and have no integrity of purpose, such as the bag of laws that have been discussed recently. Even in the Justice Commission, where there are important regulations that concern the broad parts of the community, the most need to be obeyed, such as rights, law, justice, and justice, it is unfortunately a sign of a great dilemma. It is against the Civil Charter to be included in regulations that have nothing to do with each other and which are related to 11 different laws, and the drafts may be irregular, incomplete, and careless. Dear lawmakers, most of the amendments to the bill were recently adopted, but were either cancelled by the Constitutional Court or caused difficulties in implementing them. The law is not a sabbatical. Of course, it is not possible to change the law quickly, but it is proof that there are no healthy and permanent legal arrangements. In the bill we're negotiating, there are procedures being restored. The procedure in which the decision to listen is an example. Under the conditions of unanimous voting in the criminal court on the matter of 26th, 27th and 28th Articles of Communication, the detection and listening of communications, the deployment of secret investigators, and the monitoring of technical tools, the three very important articles are authorized by the magistrates alone. Just two years ago, the arrangement, based on the privacy of private life, was restored to its former state when the decision to listen was forced upon members of the state. Just like two years ago, the same people who changed this arrangement that made listening decisions almost impossible to make the same people, the same people who argued that they would go back to the way they were. That means that -- in the nail -- in need of private life is being interfered with, and again -- in the nail -- in the need -- this intervention is almost impossible, and finally, it is restored to its former state. The privacy of private life is one of the highest values guaranteed by the Constitution. In a place where such a serious matter is constantly changed in the interest of interests, it may be impossible to talk about the state of law. For such reasons, it would be appropriate to have the notice changed by the 27th article to the court of punishment. Dear lawmakers, the third article of the bill is related to the change in the first joke of Article 363, and the situation is the same. The limit for the first thousand Turkish liras of the bill to apply for 5,000 Turkish liras has been cut to 3,000 liras in a vote on the lower commission for obstructing freedom of rights search, but has been raised to 7,000 liras during the commission talks, with the ruling party's persistent proposal. This is very important and meaningful in highlighting who is the priority in legislature activities. To apply for the right or the minimum value of property to apply for the application process, it means limiting the way to seek rights. We propose that the amount set by the ruling party as 7,000 Turkish lira should be reduced to 3,000 Turkish liras. Wouldn't it make sense to raise the limit of a thousand Turkish liras to 7,000 liras, so it's up to seven, and shouldn't it be questioned? Isn't it a matter of economic and political consideration? I'd like you to consider that the 3,000 lira we're offering is a reasonable limit and accept our motion, and my compliments.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0207par0058	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. Congressmans, there are two motions on the 4th article. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the 11,000 Turkish liras, which is included in the 4th article of the Common Law Bill 438, be replaced in the form of the 1st thousand Turkish liras. Cemal Okan Askýk Melike Basmı Kazim lion Şenal Sarıhan Ömer Suha Aldan The signatures of the other motion are: Muharrem Varlı Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Erkan Haberal Does the commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0208par0075	It's in the appreciation of the High General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0207par0076	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0209par0077	We agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0207par0078	I'll make a promise to the motion holders who have asked for word on the same proposals. Ahmet Selim Yurdakul, Antalya MP... Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0210par0082	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on Article 4 of the Penal Code. We see that the fee for appeals in Article 4 of the government's signed legislation has been raised from $10,000 to $50,000. The government's demand for this change is a sign of the situation in our country's economy. Increased from $10,000 to $50,000 in five years could undermine the right to appeal and cause consequences that would hurt their conscience. We've been warning the AKP governments for years who have only watched justice be thrown down in front of the Turkish nation. Our president had warned you before the 2010 referendum and expressed our sensitivity to the scales of justice. Our President, Mr. State Garden, has passed the 2010 Constitutional Amendment of the AKP government, which has changed the codes of the Supreme Court and violated justice with its policy of interest, as a black page in our political history. In addition, he went through a dark period of life-threatening risks and dangers for Turkey. He clearly warned the Turkish nation and our country about the future of the judiciary. Finally, today, one of the former high-judgment members, one of the members of the PKK's terrorist organization, as a confessor, tells us how our country's judgment was brutally shaped, in other words, looted. Following the AKP government's adoption of the 2010 referendum into the Turkish nation using the state's resources, he has made it clear that the Fetullahist terrorist organisation's project to take over and destroy the Turkish state. Don't go to the Turkish nation for this evil that needs to fry faces; we told you not to try to design independent courts that work for the establishment of rights, law and justice in our country for political purposes, but you didn't listen. His confessor, who had the blood of 241 martyrs in his hands, says: "We have made 107 percent of the candidate of 108 people a member of the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court. " There are no negotiations or negotiations behind closed doors. I'm afraid under all the lawyers you're trying to pick out today, you have your signatures on the decrees. In the historical headshots, the signs of how terrorists from the province infiltrated the capillaries of the state are as clear as dirt in a clear water. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as our president says, we want to eat grapes, we have nothing to do with the farmer. Our only purpose is our country and our nation. Look, at the same time, we said that your opening process and your decisions regarding local governments gave terrorists space. You're trying to bring to justice today by doing the right thing by allowing the separatist terrorists to rally under the posters of the criminal Ocalan, the leader of the so-called rags and bloody terrorist organization. So, what was the need for all this pain? As the National Movement Party, we warned you, and showed you the way for the sake of the state and the interests of the Turkish nation. I wish you'd listened. Being a leader, not with words, not with words. Being a leader means my country and my nation first. Being a leader is a visionary. Being a leader, being honest, being a hard worker. Being a leader means sacrificing your life for his country and for his people. We are the patrons of a great legacy, the tradition of the Turkish state. We're doing reforms, changing status quo. For reasons like this, we're going to keep the Turkish nation in line in front of every focus that tries to fool the Turkish nation, and we're going to make sure that the Turkish nation stays on this land forever. As I end my speech, as our leader puts it, we don't do what we think, we don't stone every tree, we just say, let Turkey relax, let the state rest in peace, let the state live forever. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0211par0094	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. Another motion of the same nature...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0212par0096	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0211par0097	I'm having it read. This motion was made in the executive court for the purpose of envisioning the border of ratification on the law as 40,000 Turkish liras. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the motions: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. There is a motion on Article 5 that I will read and process the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 11,000 Turkish liras, which are included in the 5th article of the Common Law Bill of 438, be changed to the day of the opening of the case and to the day of the declaration of the law. Cemal Okan Askýk Melike Basmı Kazim lion Kemal Zeybek Şenal Sarıhan Ömer Suha Aldan Does the commission participate in the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0213par0110	Your appreciation, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0211par0111	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0214par0112	We accept, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0211par0113	Anyone want to talk about the motion? No. This motion was made in the job trial to envision the border of ratification on the legal road as 40,000 Turkish liras and to base the amount in which the sentence was issued on the basis of the amount in the date of the review rate. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the motion: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 7th article is accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 12 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 12 of the proposed legislation be changed in the following way. Cemal Okan Yüksel Necati Yılmaz Mehmet Gökdağ Ömer Suha Aldan Gülay Responsor Mehmet Doğan Kubat In the first joke of Article 75 of Law 12-5237, the third term was changed in the form of the sub-division of the article, in the form of the ibara, the izara of the third (i.e., the i.e., the i., the i.g., the i.e., the i.g., the third (i.g., the third) is changed in the form of the third (i.e. the third) subtitle (i.g., the third (i.g.g., the third) and the following phrase was added in the fourth joke, and the subtitle of the article was changed in the form of the subtitled subtitles (i.e.e.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g.g. There is no place to prosecute on the basis of prepayment, excluding taxi crimes, or half the amount of payment will be increased to the perpetrator who has committed a charge which has been prepaid within five years of the decision to drop the civil suit," he told SETimes. A) This is part of the Law; 1. The failure to fulfil the duty of help or notification (the first joke of the 98th article), 2. The endangerment of general security (matter 171) 3. Contamination of the environment (one joke of Article 182), 4. The use of special signs and clothing improperly (the first joke of article of 64), 5. To not report the crime, the crimes of the first and second of the 78th Amendment, B) The crime, dated 31/8/1956, was mentioned in Article 108 of Forest Law 6831 in the first article, It's also applied in terms of care. In the event of the recursion of crimes within five years, the charges against the perpetrator will not be carried out on the same charge. (7) Decisions regarding the lack of room for prosecution on payment and decision-making are recorded in a specific system. These records can only be used for the purpose specified in this article, if requested by the prosecutor, judge or court, in connection with an investigation or prosecution." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0215par0145	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0211par0146	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0216par0147	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0211par0148	I'm reading the reason: With the motion, the upper limit of the crimes to be paid in advance is set as six months, and the implementation of the prepayment in terms of some crimes that are not covered. In addition, the 6th joke, where the prepayment will be carried out, stipulates that the prepayment provisions for the same crime will not be implemented in five years for the same crime, which can be carried out if different crimes are committed within five years. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the motion: those who accept... those who refuse... the 12th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 13 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment to the 438 Penal Code and the amendment to some Laws in accordance with Article 13 of the Law Act, Article 103 of Law No. 5237 and Article 103 of Article (1) of the Law. The person who sexually abused the child is sentenced to eight to fifteen years in prison. If sexual abuse remains on the level of harassment, they will be sentenced to three to eight years in prison. If the victim is not 12 years old, the penalty for abuse cannot be less than ten years in case of abuse. A) All forms of sexual behavior against children who have not completed or completed fifteen years of age and who have not developed the legal meaning and perception of the outcome of the verb, B) Sexual behavior against other children, based solely on algebra, threats, deception, or other reasons that affect will, is understandable. Namik Havutça Necati Yılmaz Cemal Okan Yüksel Gülay Responsor Murat Emir Melike Basmacı Şenal Sarıhan Ömer Süha Aldan Zeynel Emre Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0217par0169	It doesn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0211par0170	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0218par0171	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0211par0172	Senal Sarıhan wants to talk about the motion, Ankara MP. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0219par0175	My dear President, my dear fellow clerks, my dear MPs and fellow writers, I salute you all. I know that the material that I'm going to talk about is basically a major problem in the discussion process. Speaking on matter seems to approach fire without a tong, but it is necessary to talk about every subject, express our thoughts on every subject, and while presenting these statements, we must act primarily knowing that we are trying to resolve the problem. Dear friends, the change in which you are asked to be brought to Article 103 is primarily related to children's sexual abuse. Now, I'm going to give you a few digits, and then I'm going to try to express my thoughts on this. According to 2014 data, 650 cases of child sexual abuse are coming to the Forensic Medical Association each month. According to the 2013 statistics, at least 19,757 criminal cases have been filed against children's sexual integrity, which resulted in 14.417. 14.417 (19.757 crimes) resulted in a conviction. This figure is 61 per cent of total convictions. According to the 2014 penal statistics, at least 24,825 criminal cases have been filed against children's sexual integrity. Only 13.968 of them ended up in prison. In short, the picture that we're looking at shows us how intense sexual abuse crimes are, but a significant part of them are facing punishment. Consider other values: Human trafficking for sexual abuse is the first in Europe in the Global Slavery Index. Obviously, that's a pretty embarrassing number. Another data, 36,000 children's brides in 2015. While we are in this situation, while our children's situation, our children's sexual abuses have been so intense and have been increasingly systematic in recent years -- let's remember the Posant case, the Ensar case, the Gerger incident, the abuse incidents in Izwar -- there is a decision that unfortunately the Constitutional Court has made in 2014. Now, I'm going to present a portion of this decision to your knowledge again. It is said in the Constitutional Court's cancellation decision: this provision, regardless of whether or not the consent of those under 15 years of age, is against the law, without any distinction based on concrete circumstances, to the consent of the victim, who has the ability to understand the meaning and content of the action against him. The punishments for the sexual acts of those victims under the age of 15 are very high, says that they are high, that they should be changed. Let us now look at the legal table, dear friends: The 11th article of our civil law states 18 ▪ as an adult age. Article 12 states that a 15-year-old child can only be considered an adult with parental consent and court approval. 16 years of age, once again, can only be considered an adult by a judge's decision. So the age of our civil law as well as the age of puberty by the Turkish Penal Code is not 15, it is 18. Now, let's see, what's the status of the Child Protection Act? Article 3 says that children are children until they are 18 years old. We, when faced with any sexual abuse or abuse of children between 15 and 12 years of age, tend to gradually reduce their punishments by our own hands. Because a marriage like this, which you will remember, is what we call an official wedding and a marriage we call a marriage, and the marriage of the imam has been arranged, and the marriage of the imam has become unrequited. In this case, Turkey will literally become a children's bridal zone, or we will have to face the abused children. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Could you give me a minute, please?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0220par0185	Here, I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Sarıhan.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0219par0186	Dear friends, an early marriage is actually a cover for the law, you know. In early marriage, the two sides -- excuse me, forgive -- are in a constant state of abuse. Now, as soon as we're all back together, we need to think about how this material can be reassembled, and how it can be massed, and how it can be rearranged by protecting the children, by looking for the best benefits of the children. Therefore, it is clear that neither our motion nor the current motion will solve the problem. It's just that in these cases, the way two children are children, the way both sides are children, needs to be evaluated legally. Otherwise, today's arrangement will be free of law, conscience, and justice. The children belong to all of us. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0221par0191	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 13 (13) accepted I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 14 is accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 15 is accepted. There's a motion on Article 16 that I'll read and process the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 16 of the framework of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. Article 16 - 5237's second statement of Article 179 of the Law has been added in six months' notice. Ömer Suha Aldan Mehmet Gökdağ Necati Yılmaz Cemal Okan Ascen Zeynel Emre Namik Havutça Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0222par0205	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0221par0206	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0223par0207	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0221par0208	Anyone want to talk about the motion? No.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0224par0209	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0221par0210	I'm reading the reason: Under the amendment motion, the lower limit of the sentence was intended to be six. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 16 accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 17 is accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 18 is accepted. There's a motion on Article 19 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 19 of the framework of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. Article 19-5237 has been changed from one year to one year in prison and three years in prison from one year to three days in the first verse of Article 228 of the Law. Ömer Suha Aldan Mehmet Gökdağ Necati Yılmaz Cemal Okan Ascen Zeynel Emre Namik Havutça Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0225par0226	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0221par0227	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0226par0228	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0221par0229	I'm reading the reason: The amendment was intended to change the two hundred days to three hundred days. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 19th article is accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 20th article is accepted. Congressmans, this concludes the vote of the substances in chapter one. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second section covers 21 to 48, including temporary matter 1. I will meet the demands of groups and individuals on this section. First speech on behalf of the groups is İsmail Faruk Aksu, İstanbul MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0227par0242	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the second part of the Law on Corrections Act 438 and Amendments to Some Laws. I salute you all. Many laws have been changed from the Military Penal Code, which should be discussed separately and should not be directly related to each other, to the Law on Justice, from the Law on the Organization and Missions of the Ministry of Justice to the Turkish Penal Code, from the Law on Punishment Law to the Law on Laws of Law. This method, which has been widely applied for legislation recently, has become almost a normal law enforcement activity. In terms of the quality of legislation, this practice, which has many disadvantaged aspects, has become one of the most important obstacles to making healthy and lasting legal arrangements. As a matter of fact, many of the items in this bill have recently been implemented or modified. There is no doubt that it is not always possible for the law to be flexible in a very dynamic way to adapt to developments. However, even in very short periods of time, making different arrangements on the same issues is the result of the lack of earlier technical preparations. According to Dair's regulations, changes cannot be changed in the provisions of more than one framework with a framework draft, and changes can be done separately for each arrangement. We say this every time, but you insist on not following your own rules, even though you're the one who passed the legislation. Basically, the rule of legal security is to make the rules that are in effect and binding for everyone to be open, accessible and predictable, and such practices destroy the principles and properties that are sought for the law. The facility of an environment where reward and punishment mechanisms can be calculated is one of the most important functions of the state. This can only happen with the implementation of the rule of law state. Compromising the issues related to the process is crucial to the legitimacy of the transactions. If various ways to neutralize the process are exploited by law enforcement, it will undoubtedly be difficult to talk about the state of law there. Unpredictableness and uncertainty have become a form of governance in our country, and conjunctural regulations have gained prevalence. However, the rule of legal security that I express above requires that the rules be predictable. Unpredictability in the legal system is also vital for Turkey's economic and social development. The facility for economic growth, social development, social reconciliation and national unity and integration is one of the main goals our country wants to achieve. In order to achieve these goals, we need to attract investment, to reassure the investor, and to reassure the investor, as well as the economic process, the rule of law must be secure and predictable. Dear lawmakers, according to the Law on Criminal Law and the Law on Amendments in Some Laws, it is intended to ensure a settlement as an obstacle to prosecution in criminal prosecution law and a more effective implementation of prepayment institutions, as well as a more effective use of the 171st article of the Law on Criminal Opposition (2) and a more effective use of the institution of the state's prosecution during the investigation. Basically, the fact that many discrepancies have been launched in our country as a result of criminal investigations leads to a public trial, moving to courts, heavy functioning of the system, and sometimes obstructing the system. The institutions mentioned in the Penal Code are not effectively used, such as prosecutors hardly evaluated the postponing of the civil suit. This may be because the current arrangement left the state's attorney's discretion to postpone the opening of the civil suit. The fact that the establishment of this institution is not left to the prosecutor's discretion, in other words, is a necessity to be enforced. Again, the provisions to increase the number of crimes subject to compromise and prepayment and to ensure more effective implementation of reconciliation are among the issues that may be considered under the current needs of our current criminal judgment system. In this respect, the sentence shall extend the scope of the penal code's Article 253, which raises the upper limit of the prison sentence of Turkish Penal Code on Article 75, in terms of the prepayment of the bill's prepayment for the violation of traffic safety, which is included in the 179th and (3)th jokes of the Turkish Penal Code, shall extend the scope of implementation of the Article 253, which regulates the settlement of Article (1) (b) of Article 253, which is threatening to add theft, fraud and fraud. Dear lawmakers are also involved in the process of investigating a sentence that can only be carried out in the process of prosecution by changes made in Articles 247 and 248 of the Penal Code. In this way, all assets of a suspect who has not yet been indicted can be seized and trustees can be appointed. Such provisions are not only capable of lowering trust in the judiciary, but also of causing serious economic and social problems. Lowering confidence in the judiciary will also lead to a reduction in the dignity of the judiciary. One of the greatest dangers that this poses in social life is that people turn to other ways and methods rather than to see conflict in the judiciary. Another important issue in the bill is that there are no scientific studies results or preparation based on the savings of the problems caused by judicial activity on the substances that have been changed. It's still new to our judgmental system. It hasn't been long before the district courthouses can make an assessment of their function. These courts are set up for citizens to take advantage of decisions faster and more accurate than the legal way. However, it is not yet clear whether it has reached a source of funds for new arrangements. Dear lawmakers have faced growing problems in Turkey with the legal and judicial system growing in recent years. These problems show itself in many parts of the judiciary and the law. Problems about the principle of equality, which is the most important element of the democratic legal state, and the right to "law safety," and ultimately the question of the rule of law undermines the public's confidence in justice. The right investments and new technologies must come to our country in order to overcome the most important problems of Turkey's production. However, foreign investors and new technologies will not be able to transfer to a country where the judicial system is unpredictable and has problems with the rule of law. We view justice as the basis of the state, the security of basic rights and freedoms. In this framework, I respectfully salute you worthy members of the General Assembly, saying that all business and transactions must be established in accordance with the principles of justice, in accordance with the principles of generality and equality.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0228par0262	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. On the second chapter, Necati Yilmaz, Ankara MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0229par0266	Mr. President, Mr. Court, members of lawmakers, politics is an act that must be carried out sincerely. Whatever we're doing politically, we need to be sincere first. Now, I would like to ask you, when the government brings these plans to the General Assembly, does it really want to add a contribution, participation, or not? You have to understand that. On the one hand, this bill, which envisions a change in fundamental laws -- the Penal Code -- is being brought to parliament's agenda, but on the other hand, what does it mean to enact the fundamental issues in accordance with the law? This is clearly a clear indication that the government is not sincere in this matter. We have to ask, "Where is the integrity?" Congressmans, in this bill, the technical issues such as the appeal limit, the prepayment limit are being brought to the agenda of Parliament, while on the other hand, the amendments to the laws of the Law of 674, 676 are being made solely by the government, especially by the decision of many laws, and are being carried out in order to undermine the core right to rule of law, such as the right to work, organisation, thinking and expression, property, defence and fair judgment. With this closed to the proposals of lawmakers and party groups, the government is constantly making mistakes. Hence, many of the changes he makes are changes about returning from previous mistakes. Since the generality, abstractity, equality, principles that should be violated during the legal regulations are also ignored by all citizens and the entire country and by all the times it is written to be implemented, these mistakes are made. It's a pity that the concept of private, private legislation has become a dominant understanding of Parliamentary work. Of course, these mistakes inevitably cause new problems to arise as soon as possible, and new regulations are needed. That is why 18 times in the Penal Code, three times in the law, and one time in the Constitutional Court's decision has been changed, and this time it has remained the government's government's decision to redefine its mistakes, which, for the greater part, has openly disclosed its mistakes in order to reverse the arrangement that it had made in the past. Members of parliament, law is not a tool that changes according to everyday needs and is used to satisfy our daily needs. We're all aware of the burden of work as we pile up on judgment. The prolonged trial period, resulting in the natural result of the cumulative workload, is an important factor in losing confidence in justice. This issue should be removed from this situation and returned to the real function of delivering justice, which is political and political power, which is opened to the staffing of communities who are political and co-owners, and, on the one hand, is the basis of political power fighting among the congregations. Because the judgment that has lost its credibility, unfortunately, is pathetic. In order to eliminate the cumulative burden of work and the fact of the late justice, there are law enforcement courts being established, while in this bill, the way to apply is cut off. In particular, the expected lower limit for the establishment path has been increased by 3,000 liras. Let's not forget, lawmakers, that in our country, nearly 7 million of our people are unemployed, nearly 14 million of our people live under the poverty line, 20 million of our people live below the poverty line. We have to remember how much money is worth to these people. The 3,000 Turkish liras, known as the lower limit of the exception, are a price they will live on for three months. Forty thousand liras for the appeal limit is a great fortune for 90 percent of our citizens. These figures can be seen as worthless, demeaning to the state of power, power members and those around them, so it may be considered that the courts under these charges should not be occupied, but they are courts of reference and appeal, not only for the rich, but also for the poor. On the other hand, this bill reduces the lower limit of the prepayment limit and expands the practice area of the institution. In this way, much of the discrepancies are being taken out of the jurisdiction and pay off the money that has the money and commit the crime with ease. Congressmans, to sum up, the government needs to change its way of getting a job. In today's work, we are pleased that the opposition party has taken into account our proposals and is on the road to change, but we expect it to turn into a general working style, just a present-day attitude. Because we all know that the government, unfortunately, is not only in the General Assembly when discussing the drafts, but in the commission, in the subcommittee, in a serious act of overhearing the suggestions of its own party members, which are incompatible with their conscience, disturbing them. He needs to give up his attitude. And in the process that we're going into, we need to learn from here, not from law enforcement decrees, but from the fundamental texts where our problems are actually discussed and discussed in Parliament. We, the opposition party, are ready for this, we are far from blocking Parliament's work, and we are ready to give support and every effort to overcome the problems our country is facing. We've come up with that in our attitude today. We can make it more common. In that sense, we expect the goodwill that we've established to be understood today by both the ruling party and the ruling party. Hence, opposition and civil society must be given up on its desire to solve problems with one mind by constantly missing problems from the opposing parts of society. This understanding must first dominate Parliament's work. This will create a serious transformation. Maybe from now on the fact that we all have problems in common and that the ship is in common and that we'll all be in trouble when you look at it. Unfortunately, however, and unfortunately, we say that the government, which, unfortunately, has shut down Parliament, has acted far away from giving such an image, which interferes with every aspect of life by law enforcement. We wish, we hope, we expect, to show a different attitude from today. So let us create ground where we can work out our problems as partners. Parliament is more than just the areas where the 3-5 MPs listen and watch and are engaged in daily work, in fact, in what the public expects of us, to be the basis for the solution of problems, the production of the common mind, and the creation of common values. Perhaps the function of Parliament will make sense of it. After we've established that intention, we expect this response from power and the ruling party. I wish today would be a start for tomorrow. I salute you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0230par0276	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, we continue negotiations by having the materials on the second section read the motions on those substances, if they exist. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 21st article is accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 22nd article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 23 that I'll read and process the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 438 Penal Code, which is listed in Article 23 of the Law, shall be changed in the form of the 7th Day of Emergency. Muharrem Varlı Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0231par0289	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0230par0290	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0232par0291	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0230par0292	Mr. Ruhi Ersoy wants to talk about the motion, the Ottoman MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0233par0295	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 23 of the Law on the Amendment in some Laws under Penal Code 438. Now, because it's about law, it's the constitution, which defines the relationship between the rule of law and the rule of law, and law is the highest title of law. Formally, law on law or education has been built by modern mind, but it's generally done in order to maintain order with culture in the common sense. Is this law the result or the process? These are philosophical issues that are discussed. So, are we going to prevent crimes from being handled, by the laws and regulations we're going to impose, or are we going to solve these problems by bringing our social development to a point with an understanding that they're not being committed? I mean, preventive measures in healthy societies are much more important. Our general interaction with the world, including Turkey, and this postmodern wave, in general, brings with it a cultural tremor. In many areas, the domination of mass culture, popular culture, causes our people to take different trends in attitude and behavior. The role of the media, the state of human relationships, the differences and diversity of human profiles in mass culture are the basis for them. Given the lack of policies that have been implemented by this fact, there has been an increase in crime rates from murder to prostitution over the past decade, drug use to 600 per cent of all crime rates in our country. Economic and moral collapse is one of the major factors in increasing crime rates. The cause of the increase in crime rates may be debatable, but according to Police Headquarters data, there are about 1,100 murders a year in our country. Most of the victims of these murders are women. According to official data, the rate of women's murders in our country has increased by 140 percent in the last ten years. The number of children involved in crime, exposed to crime increases every year. In 2014, his physical condition was inadequate and 22 criminal execution institutions were closed due to financial inconvenience to the state, and 15 penal institutions were closed in 2015 for the same reason. The number of prisoners -- prior to recent events -- is 187,647, according to March 31, 2016. Now, is the fact that prisons are overnumbered by the number of criminals or the number of alleged felonies, a countermeasure against crime, or is it the result of people resorting to crime because of unregistered measures and policies in general? In many areas, serious increases have appeared in numbers over the past ten or twelve years, a fact. We all have a pattern in this sense, we have responsibilities to society, we have power over the nation, we have political parties and attitudes, we have to do some serious contributing work to prevent social development, social morality, and, depending on that, social decay, regardless of our ideological stance. When we make our laws, these are the main points of origin. And when that happens, we don't need a lot of written legislation. Societys with rules, traditions, who don't abandon their rules, build their future better. We're a society that thinks about renovating by eradicating its principles and renovating its traditions, and we've had a lot of problems as a result of modernity, but I'm learning from them, and I'm doing business by pushing my own rights. I think when we act in terms of common intelligence and Turkish culture, I think we'll take the public conscience with us, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0234par0300	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 23 is accepted. There is a motion on Article 24 that I will read and process the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the phrase "one year" from nine months" and "three months" from "two months" in a joke envisioned in the framework of the bill, which is to be added to Article 112 of the Penal Code under Article 24 (Islamic Law). Cemal Okan Yüksel Mehmet Gökdağ Necati Yılmaz Gülay Backup Omar Suha Aldan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0235par0311	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0234par0312	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0236par0313	We accept, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0234par0314	No one wants to talk about the motion. I'm having it read. The motion aims to shorten the period of detention in violation of the judicial control measure due to the end of the maximum detention period in the joke, which is envisioned to be added to Article 112 of the Penal Code. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the motion: Those who don't agree... Article 24 is accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 25 is accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... The 26th article is accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 27 is accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 28th article is accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 29 is accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 30 is accepted. I submit to your votes the 31st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 31st article is accepted. I submit Article 32 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 32 is accepted. I submit Article 33 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 33 is accepted. There's a motion on Article 34 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the notice of the students of the school of law who have studied law shall be replaced in the form of lawyers or persons who have studied law, which is part of Article 253 (24) of the Penal Code (24). Mustafa Elitaş Erkan Akçay Mehmet Doğan Kubat The Mujahit Durmişoğlu of the Israeli Barrack Open his Mind Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0237par0337	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0234par0338	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0238par0339	We accept, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0239par0340	Motive.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit05spe0234par0341	I'm having it read. With the motion, it is possible that the people who can be compromisers are not law school graduates, but lawyers and people who have studied law. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0234par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 22nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of Bill 438. The commission and the government are in place. I submit to your votes the motion of Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş and his friends on Article 34: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the amendment to Article 34, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 34 is accepted. I submit the 35th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 35th article is accepted. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 36th article has been accepted. I submit the 37th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 37th article is accepted. I submit the 38th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 38th article is accepted. I submit Article 39 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 39 is accepted. I submit the 40th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 40th article is accepted. I submit to your votes the 41st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 41st article is accepted. Congressmans, there are two motions on Article 42. I'm going to read these proposals in the same manner and I'm going to process them together; I'm going to make a separate commitment to those who have motions, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 438-trial bill shall be changed into the next thousand," which is included in Article 42 of the Common Law Bill. Cemal Okan Askýk Melike Basmı Kazim lion Şenal Sarıhan Ömer Suha Aldan I'm reading the signatures of the other motion: Muharrem Varlı Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Deniz Depboy Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0240par0027	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0234par0028	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0241par0029	We agree, Mr. President. I'll make a promise to the lawmakers who have signed the motions. There's no demand for words. I'm having the reasons read. This motion was made in the legal trial to envision the border of ratification on the legal road as 40,000 Turkish liras. The minimum amount of rights against the rulings of the district court courts is being drawn to a reasonable level for the appeal path.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0242par0037	I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 42nd Amendment to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the motions: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 43 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 44 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the case be changed in the application of monetary boundaries in Articles 341 in Articles 341 and 362 and 362 in Articles 362, which are estimated to be added to Article 6100, Article 438, Article 438, and in the application of the monetary limit on Article 369, and in the date of the application of Article 369." Cemal Okan Yüksel Necati Yilmaz Gülay Backuper Mehmet Gökdağ Ömer Suha Aldan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0243par0048	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0242par0049	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0244par0050	We agree.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0242par0051	Anyone want to talk about the motion? No.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0245par0052	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0242par0053	I'm having it read. This motion was made in order to base the amount on the date of the verdict, while re-evaluation rate was applied in the Court of Appeal and appeal. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the amendment to Article 44, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 45th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 45th article is accepted. I submit to your votes the 46th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 46th article has been accepted. There are two motions on the temporary clause one, I'm having them read the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to the interim Article 1 of the current bill. Mehmet Mush Ramazan Can Halis Dalklıç Ilyas Şeker Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu Mujahit Durmuoğlu In the crime of sexual abuse committed until 16/11/2016 with no other reason for threatening, cheating, or will, the release of the sentence, regardless of the conditions in Article 231 of the Penal Code, is decided to postpone the execution of the sentence. If the marriage ends with the perpetrator's defect during the statute of limitations, the verdict on the perpetrator will be declared or the execution of the sentence will continue. In accordance with this joke, it is decided that if the verdict of the verdict is dropped or the sentence is postponed, it will be decided that the People's Court of Appeals or those who aid in the execution of the crime will be dismissed or the execution will be eliminated." Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of the proposed legislation to ▪9 months in the interim Article 1,,,,,,,,,,,,,,............................................................................. Omar Suha Aldan Cemal Okan Yüksel Gülay Backuper Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0246par0076	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0242par0077	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0247par0078	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0242par0079	It's Omar Süha Aldan who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Aldan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've had a good round of applause this time of night, Mr. Aldan.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0248par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Hopefully, the House will make a decision in the way that I want it to. Yes, as always, at the last minute of the night, we are faced with another surprise change. In fact, it was a provision in Article 434 of the former Turkish Penal Code, a provision for the postponement of a civil suit in the case of marriage to a rapist. Now it's being brought up again. It is not right to accept this arrangement. Look, I'll give you an example: a 50-60-year-old man has to pay for it when he rapes an 11-year-old girl and then gets married over the years. If you give that person the right to be punished for this marriage, then that girl will be sentenced to life in prison, in a sense, as a servant of that man, not his wife. Marriage is based on loyalty, marriage is based on mutual love, respect. Marriage can't be coerced. If anyone commits such an act, he must pay for it, and when he does, he can marry that person if he wants to. You shouldn't say yes to such an imposition, lawmakers. You have to think this through. The concept of marrying the rapist will be in all the press tomorrow. Everyone be very careful with this. That's point one. A second point is that this crime is limited to a specific area, which is related to actions prior to 16/11/2016. So, what happens next? From now on, the Constitutional Court will go to the Supreme Court, under the principle of equality, and the Constitutional Court will enforce the decision and it will become a habit, a legal arrangement. A third point is that there is a Article 231 of the Penal Code, which is an arrangement to postpone the release of the sentence. It's only true of crimes that take up to two years. However, this practice will be applied to people who have been sentenced to 18 years in prison. That's another weirdo. So that tomorrow, even someone who's been sentenced to aggravated life imprisonment will be able to make an arrangement for the dismissal of the sentence. So no matter how we look at it, there's nothing further about this arrangement. After all, Article 434 of the former Turkish Penal Code commanded a five-year postponement. So in a marriage like this, the person who married the rapist was expected for five years, and in the meantime, if there was a divorce with your husband's flaw, that person could go back to prison. But, again, in this arrangement, that's forever. So forever, a little boy will have to stay with the man he never wanted, the one who raped him. Algebra can never be turned into a savior's side: If there's a threat, a deception, that's what we don't get out of it by saying we don't cover it. See, what's important here is that the word "instruction" means that the person being raped is a child, a child, and this is a child under the age of 15. Of course, there may be concerns: There may be thousands of people in prison who may or may not be in prison for this reason. Your main goal may be to evacuate prisons and replace them with people, or you may have some sort of understanding of bringing them some kind of forgiveness from people of certain cultural levels in society at a young age. But let's not forget that we all have children. Let's never keep this out of sight. And I say we figure out exactly what an app like that could lead to in the future. It's a start. If we say yes to this beginning, we'll bring up a lot of things that are out of order, which are against the law, and we'll never be able to get out of it. The law can't afford to force it. The law has its own set of rules. Please, let's not ruin this. I salute you all with the desire to say yes to our proposal for change.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0249par0093	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to the interim Article 1 of the current bill. In the crime of sexual abuse committed until 16/11/2016 with no other reason for threatening, cheating, or will, the release of the sentence, regardless of the conditions in Article 231 of the Penal Code, is decided to postpone the execution of the sentence. If the marriage ends with the perpetrator's defect during the statute of limitations, the verdict on the perpetrator will be declared or the execution of the sentence will continue. In accordance with this joke, it is decided that if the verdict of the verdict is dropped or the sentence is postponed, it will be decided that the People's Court of Appeals or those who aid in the execution of the crime will be dismissed or the execution will be eliminated." Mehmet Mush (Istanbul) and his friends
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0250par0100	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0249par0101	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0250par0102	I'd like a word, sir, from my position.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0249par0103	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0250par0106	Mr. President, we were facing a 50-point law. Given some proposals from the opposition, we've drawn up a significant portion of our proposals today for the completion of our work -- in your testimony, and in the testimony of all the MPs -- despite the fact that we did not make any obstacles, as we did not use the rights of the Civil Charter, as well as in your testimony. It's come to this. The law that will not end in four days will end in four hours, and how important it is to compromise, Necati Yilmaz said in his final speech, as well as the members of the Commission. In fact, we were considering thanking the Minister for his participation in constructive suggestions, but with this last-minute motion, if he was married to a great crime in the past, a rapist in the past, that the girl would not be punished... if we had known such a motion, we would have resisted it four days, four years. Now, this last-minute motion is extremely disturbing. Now, by asking for a roll call here, there are many women with a conscience by women's organizations, by human rights organizations in the AKP... so if the AKP women's arms would oppose it, women's lawmakers would oppose it, and while they were free of it... Now we're going to ask for a roll call, and after this roll call, it's automatically shown that it won't hold a number, and hopefully it won't, and we're going to buy at least four days of time, or Mr. Secretary will withdraw this motion. If he can convince his own base, women's MPs, women's arms, similar democratic mass organizations in Turkey, he can enforce it whenever he wants. But I mean, really, it's horrible. We're at the point of asking for a roll call to ensure that this issue's vote remains at least for the next few days and that the House is closed. We appeal to the conscience of the AKP's women MPs. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0251par0110	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0252par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party Group, have made our best effort to ensure that the Bill of Law, 438 rows pass as soon as possible. This 50-point bill would only be over next week in the normal process, and we've drawn up a lot of our speakers and motions because we've also reached agreements in some articles as groups. But as a last-minute surprise, the last time we received an offer to add a joke to this interim article, we don't think that's true. In the case of the victim's and the perpetrator's marriage, it is a decree that the release of the sentence, regardless of the conditions in Article 231 of the Penal Code, will be decided if the verdict is passed, that the execution of the sentence will be postponed. Now, of course, we don't accept that, but as the Minister put it on several occasions, I think it's also predicted that a study of this will be done, as the Commission has expressed, and after a more detailed study, debate and assessment, we feel it is in our interest to find an arrangement that will be widely accepted by the general lines of our society and that will not hurt the conscience. We expected the government, the ruling group, not to come up with some sort of surprise proposal at midnight.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0253par0117	Complete, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0252par0118	If only this had been here yesterday or before, we'd have had a chance to take some more of this. But this has been a last-minute surprise proposal. I want to say that we will not accept and that we will vote against the entire bill. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0253par0120	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0254par0125	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0253par0126	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0255par0127	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll give my opinion after I say a few words about the motion.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0253par0128	Yes, of course.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0255par0129	This motion is intended to solve a very serious problem in our country. As you know, the Article 434 of the Turkish Penal Code, our former Penal Code, had always envisioned such an application. At that time, again, in Parliament, we were all together in the Republican People's Party, the AK PARTY, and we said, "Let's put it away to prevent marriages at a young age, it's not right, and let's destroy this structure that encourages it." And together, we made this arrangement. But you can appreciate that the law has the capacity to create a culture. When we suddenly came up with such an arrangement, there are past regulations, there has been a structure that has come from that period, and people have not had enough opportunities to learn this law, to perceive it, and the application of a culture has really benefited. There's a lot of people in prisons right now, arrested and convicted in that direction. They're married, they're organized, they're here, they're wearing gifts, they're officially married; let's say it's a public admission, not a civil law.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0256par0133	They married at the Imam wedding.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0255par0134	And he came to the D.A.'s wedding. I'm telling you a story I've been told in Sivas: a lady came to me, and there's a child, and he's grown up with her. And she's pregnant right now. He said: "We had a wedding." At our wedding, the district governor came, the prosecutor came, the judge came, the police commissioner came. My father was known in the village. Then we got married. They also wore gifts.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0256par0136	What are you talking about, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0255par0137	When I went to the hospital for birth, the same police officer came and picked me up. And now that my wife is in prison, she's serving seven years and six months, that's what I'm doing.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0256par0138	Let him lie down.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0255par0139	Now, there's a drama here. We don't say yes to an offer to marry the rapists who raped them. And this proposal is very clear: without any other reason to be bold, threatening, cheating, or willful, there is a situation that arises because of such marriages.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0257par0140	It's a sexual assault charge.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0255par0141	To eliminate it... to make it more effective for the new culture that this law creates in the future. Because it's temporary, and it's an advanced application, and it's definitely not going to happen. She's married now, she's a victim, she's got kids, they're a separate victim. If we look at this drama here... what does the public say, or what does she say? And here, Mr. Suha has stated, it's a five-year deadline for a mistrial. We put it here during the statute of limitations, in which case we put it in its favor so that no victim would come to light. So this is about solving a problem in our country. Otherwise, we don't take a step towards encouraging marriages at an early age. Our current law created a culture in that sense. We're considering that there are around 3,000 or 4 thousand of them all over Turkey. Since this was all over Turkey, these punishments created an effective culture and also deterred. I'm sure it won't be the same after this. I'm expressing that we agree with the motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0258par0145	I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0259par0148	We'll have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0258par0149	There's a call request, so I'll do the roll call. I'm going to identify the presence of lawmakers in the General Assembly who have requested roll call. Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Akar, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Sixok, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Y friend, Mr. Sarıbal, Mr. Emir, Mr. Akar, Mr. Koçdemir, Mr. Koçdemir. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, I'm going to look for the presence of lawmakers who voted on the ballot. Selçuk Özdağ, Manisa? Here. Genghis Aydoğdu, Aksaray? No. Abdulkadir Ascendant, Gaziantep? No. Mr. Secretary is here, he voted on a compass. There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. I submit the temporary article 1 to your votes in accordance with the amendment to the motion: Those who don't agree... Interim Article 1 is accepted. I submit the 47th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 47 is accepted. I submit the 48th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 48 is accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. According to Article 86, there is no demand for words.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0260par0168	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0258par0169	Sorry, I just got a note. Before voting on the entire bill, Mr. Cemal Okan Yüksel, the former MP of Eskişehir has demanded a statement to show the color of the game as required by Article 86 of the Civil Code. Here you go, Mr. Yüksel.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0261par0173	Reverend President, Congressman, I'm so sorry, I really am as sorry as a congressman can be. We passed this bill three hours from a subcommittee logic, we passed the 50-point bill from the Justice Commission in half a day, and as a result of our talks with the government here, it was said that it would never happen, and in the Commission, the Republican People's Party's 4th General Assembly 6, 10th total, two amendment motions were adopted by your vote. I said, "This Parliament doesn't work. There's no culture of reconciliation." But at the last second, neither the lower commission nor the top commission nor the General Assembly have ever been brought before us, and as a result, a clause that no one can take political responsibility for. In fact, I was going to withdraw my request for an early home address and thank the government and the AKP MPs for my position according to 60.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0262par0176	I mean, what would change?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0263par0177	What changed? He says, "What changed?" What are you talking about? At least don't sew feathers on it.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0261par0178	But the situation suggests that he's not giving up on his good manners. I'm so sorry that tomorrow when the Justice Commission or the opposition lawmakers here go to the election districts, we've accomplished something. Look, we've agreed with the Justice and Development Party, we've imposed your demands as you say. We've been deprived of the opportunity to say. Mr. Omar Süha Aldan, spokesman for the Republican People's Party group of the Justice Commission who was just speaking here, I believe that one of our friends, who has a conscience and won't listen and complain, does not sit among us. In Law 765, we brought back the same material that happened before the Law of Punishment changed. But here's what they're saying: people who raped before 16/11/2016, who sexually abused, say, "It doesn't include what happened after that." Come on, it's a road. It's a road. As the Minister said, if 4,000 people are currently under arrest, there will be another 4,000 in five years, and we'll have to do it again for them. I'm so sorry that when I get home, I won't be able to give my 12-year-old girl any good news. We made an arrangement in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision regarding sexual abuse, but now -- as Omer Bey said -- that we've cleared the man who raped an 11-year-old boy, then maybe paid his parents to marry him, who bought that girl for money. [[You've got the wrong voice.]] That's right, Congressman, that's right.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0264par0184	He took her, and he accepted her. Buy what? What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0261par0185	Look, I was a lawyer when Law 765 was in effect. I've seen hundreds of cases. 13-year-old, 15-year-old, 16-year-old girls whose parents -- a rape, abuse -- took money from the opposite side and married them to various thinkers, and they stayed in prison for the rest of their lives. I'm so sorry. It seems too late to return, Minister, now that this clause has been accepted. I beg of you, you had a promise in the Justice Commission that we should perform a study on other issues that regulate sexual abuse; that we should call women's associations, NGOs. It's not too late, we'll discuss this matter there. Let's make a motion by means of a resuscitation, withdraw this clause. Your government cannot take responsibility for this, political, legal, and conscientious responsibility, and we can't take it at all. Tomorrow there was a compromise in the press. Tomorrow, the press will report the AKP protecting the rapist. If you're not thinking about us, think about yourself.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0265par0188	Did they leave the press to write, Cemal, who's going to write it?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0261par0189	Please withdraw this at once. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0266par0192	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0267par0193	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0266par0194	Mr. Special, come in, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0267par0197	Two valued members of the Justice Commission, five minutes each, told us how we handled the matter. We, as the opposition party -- with the support of the National Movement Party -- tried with a vote from the Civil Charter, but with one vote -- so let everyone who voted just now know that if they hadn't voted for it, it would have been possible to discuss it on the country's agenda for at least four days. Now, Mr. Minister, when you go to the Council of Ministers, say to the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology with respect, we're going to pass the 300-plus-matter law, and it's not going to pass because of me. Because I said yes to the opposition parties' proposal for reconciliation, and I fooled them, and I spent it on a last-minute motion. After this, in any proposal from the ruling party, in the bill, in which we have not made any compromises, in our experience that you've proposed at the last minute, to the ministers -- before that we have no objection to the commission -- and say hello to the Secretary of State -- and say hello to the Foreign Minister, the international agreements that were expected to be ratified, the agreement that we made yesterday by Mr. Emrullah Affairs, all because of this last-minute intervention, not just us -- despite this compromise by Mr. Bekir Bozdağdağ, all of them. See you next week. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0268par0202	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0269par0203	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0268par0205	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, we've reached the end of another law, a law that we've concluded on the basis of the Constitutional Court's warnings, which we hope will solve a lot of problems that society has been waiting for. I'd just like to say that Mr. Group Vice President has expressed that he does not find the claim that we did a wrong job at the end of the negotiating culture because...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0270par0207	I don't think it's elegant either, so I'll say it's heavier.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0268par0208	Let me talk to him. Let me talk to him. Because we've talked together, we've been revised, we've been in, we've been out, there's been opposition, there's been what we said, there's been, there's been, there's been, there's been, there's been, there's been, there's been, there's been some serious business. But we have a social problem ahead of us. Last semester, I was a congressman, with the support of the opposition again during the AK PARTI ruling period, and we signed with each other the increased penalties for sexual crimes in particular. We're not doing anything new. From that period to this period -- in the nail -- there's a group of victims in society. I'm a man who goes to the Roma neighborhoods a lot, I'm a representative of Çanakkale, where, particularly, people have had their marriage, they've had their ceremony, they're proud, but then they're in prison with the problems of certain laws. Look, I want to answer that part that the speaker has just expressed, that he accuses us of: the first sentence of the law says, without any other reason that affects violence, threats, deception, or will, I draw again, if there is algebra, if there is a threat, if there is a deception, other than that, what we're talking about is that the family has mutual consent and does not have age.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0271par0211	What kind of willpower could an 11-year-old have?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0268par0212	Two, let me tell you something else, when we read the law again, then, in the event that the marriage ends with the perpetrator's flaw, he's out of prison, he's divorced, he's wrong, etcetera, and so on, they're still going to go back to detention. There's no arrangement here that supports anyone who has the will to do wrong. So I'd like to point out that I don't find it elegant to be told to us with different accusations. I want to say that there's a serious group in society waiting for this, that there's a cut, that it's about looking out for the woman, that it's about looking out for the child. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0272par0214	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0273par0215	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0274par0216	Rapists...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0275par0217	It's not a rapist, guys, it's bullshit! Where's the rape? Where is it?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0276par0219	He's 11 years old playing games!
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0277par0220	Marry an 11-year-old?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0278par0221	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0279par0222	Mr. President, shall I say it again?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0278par0223	Wait, don't interrupt me, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0279par0224	There's no courage, no deception... don't do it.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0280par0225	How your conscience hurts!
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0281par0226	Congressmans, please, sir...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0279par0227	I spoke to Ozcan Purçu, and he's supportive, and he says yes. I spoke to him.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0282par0228	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What's the perpetrator's flaw, the perpetrator's flaw?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0281par0229	Mr. Akçay, I'm rebooting your time. Here you go. Congressmans, please, sir, Mr. Erkan Akçay will speak, please let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0283par0233	Mr. President, would you please warn Mr. Turan? As he interrupts me, so he stops listening. [[Let go, let go, let go, let go!]] Shut up! What are you talking about? You don't even know what you're talking about! At least listen. Now, there are two things, Mr. President. The first is that in these kinds of motions from the ruling wing, we say, "Let's make it a long time ago, let's negotiate, let's negotiate; it's not right to do this with last-minute proposals, and it's not right to negotiate, and it's against the reached agreement, it's against compromise." Now, Mr. Turan is pushing himself very hard on this motion, sir. He says it's a sexual abuse charge that doesn't affect algebra, threats, deception and will. Can he give an example of a sexual abuse charge that doesn't affect willpower as a lawyer? I'll give you an example. Now, the writing of this clause is already problematic, it's not true, but I'm going to leave five minutes ago, so some of the friends from the ruling party group are reacting to the statements we're going to make about it, and they're so insufferable. It is impossible to accept these regulations and to warn you again: If such surprises are to come in future drafts, the opposition will be more cautious. As the National Movement Party, we need to make sure of these motions from now on, you know, from the beginning. First, he's going to submit the motions... such as these motions from a day earlier, five or six hours ago, in the pre-law decrees. We have already disputed as opposition parties, and discussed it, and We have determined a course for him. I invite you to be kind about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0284par0242	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0285par0243	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit06spe0284par0244	I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0284par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 22nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 438. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0286par0008	Mr. President, in the previous session, Mr. Vice President of the group, in reference to my statements... there has been a misunderstanding. One minute is too short for 60.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0284par0009	Here you go, Mr. Yüksel.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0286par0012	Mr. President, dear members, in the previous session, Mr. Group Vice President told me something. I'd like to make a statement about him as well as a statement of a temporary problem in Article 1 that we now accept in the bill. First of all, I'll tell you the problem: when we look at the motion text, the crime of sexual abuse committed up to 16/11/2016 continues in case the victim and the perpetrator are married, and it is punishable. So without the time limit of sexual crime before today, tomorrow, three months from now, even five years from now, they'll take advantage of the lack of punishment. After this bill was published in the Official Gazette, perverts may force victims to marry with money stamps or various methods, and I'm afraid that even if the date of marriage is on a date after that date, the punishment would be official. At least fix this, so pull back, but...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0284par0015	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. Mr. Backup, please, I'll turn on your microphone for a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0287par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, we're all shocked by this motion. How can you marry a child... when you're called a woman? We can't accept it. Here, also, I don't understand if our laws allow an 11-year-old to marry a 13-year-old. I don't know what perverts and perverts are being released with this arrangement. Is it to make society perverse and immoral? He mentioned that the trustees, the governors, wore gold to weddings, Mr. Secretary, and I regret that he listened to him with sadness. This is unacceptable. Is it acceptable to put on 100 kilos of gold and marry an 11-year-old boy, 10 years old? There is only one name for it: it is error and error. We're against it. We will resist, if necessary, leave the House open until morning, and continue to resist child rapes. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0288par0022	Thank you, Mr. Backup. Congressmans, we have MPs entering the system within the scope of Article 60. However, due to the nature of the matter, I will only promise our women MPs. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0289par0025	Mr. President, I was the Speaker of the Family Association Commission. We talked a lot about it at the Commission.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0288par0026	I promise the commission, of course.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0289par0027	Yes, I am the Speaker of this Commission. To make a statement on this matter...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0288par0028	One second, I promise the Commission, of course, but the Commission lives here.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0289par0029	No, the special research commission was set up, you know. We talked about it at that Commission.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0288par0030	No, I can only promise the Commissioner here if he demands it. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0290par0033	Dear President, dear friends, what we're talking about here, is that we're all very interested in men and women. Because we all -- we all have children, some of them our daughters, some of them our boys. I'd like to remind you that in my lifetime, law enforcement is the product of a lifetime struggle. It's not just me, but women friends who think like me, women's organizations, and even now the Minister sitting on the bench as Minister, it's the result of a struggle we've all fought as partners. Because we wanted to take care of our children. We wanted to have children whose bodies had not developed, their bodies immature, and their age not yet able to separate anything, and we wanted to prevent them from being dragged into prostitution by the name of marriage. What we're going to do today, what we're doing, or what we're doing, but we can get it back...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0288par0036	Mr. Bassman...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0291par0038	Mr. President, I'd love to call you "Dear Regents," but I don't think I'm going to be able to make loving sentences tonight. Let's say a 12-year-old boy is raped by a 60-year-old man who's 11 years old, 10 years old, who's under 12 years of age -- let's say he's 12 years old; he's in prison, she's out. Now, if it's backwards, you say, it's done. So, if this 60-year-old man marries this 11-12-year-old, everything will be all right? Five out of one hundred thousand, five out of one hundred thousand. We've got bigger problems, we've got a problem with education; we don't have a problem with taking this rapist out, we have a problem with teaching him not to do it. I don't think anyone who's agreed to this tonight has any... God forgive me.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0288par0039	Mr. Tiger Liberty...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0292par0041	Mr. President, there's nothing acceptable about the last-minute motion because unfortunately -- as all my friends say -- it's a motion that will certainly pave the way for child rapes, which includes very serious vague and meaningless expressions and regulations. The fact that he's been put in history here is never the kind of history that would block the way for a child or a woman to be forced to marry a rapist in the rape of a new child. I certainly agree with the criticism that there is no age limit. There's been talk about the end of the marriage with the perpetrator's fault, which is very vague and vague. As a member of the Family Association Commission... These issues were discussed on the Commission, however brief, but not enough. Last minute, why are these motions coming in, like smuggling stuff from a fire? Yes, if there's a problem, let's discuss it together, and let's take the views of female NGOs, and let's take the views of the victims, but that's never the answer to this problem, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0288par0043	Mr. Sibel Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0293par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, a very important arrangement is being made today that really concerns all parts of society. In this regard, I invite all of our deputies here, in this courtroom, to a great responsibility. Yes, if there's a victimization, and our greatest responsibility is to compensate for the victims of women, children, girls, but this way, in the middle of the night, not in a very fast motion in five minutes. I invite all parties regarding a very careful discussion in the Justice Commission and all relevant commissions to make a very important arrangement, and I propose that this motion be withdrawn from Parliament today.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0288par0047	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. The negotiations of the bill are complete. Members of parliament, there is a request for an open vote on the entire bill. Now, I'm going to have the motion read and I'm going to identify the names of the lawmakers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the voting of the entire legislature of 438 rows be carried out in accordance with Article 143 of the Civil Code. Free Special? Here. Melike Basmaci? Here. Zeynep Sixok? Here. Erkan Akçay? Here. Musa Pine? Here. Ünal Demirtaş? Here. Fatma Kaplan Liberty? Here. Sibel Özdemir? Here. Peace, Yfriend? Here. Master Erhan? Here. Cetin Osman Budak? Here. Mehmet Gökdağ? Here. Orhan Sarıbal? Here. Senal Sarıhan? Here. Omar Suha Aldan? Here. Gulay Backup? Here. Murat Amir? Here. Necati Yilmaz? Here. Vecdi Gündüz? Here. Haydar Akar? Here.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0294par0076	Mr. President, before we vote, may I say one more thing?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0288par0077	Okay, 20 names. The Minister has a request for an explanation. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0295par0080	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I would like to submit a report to our esteemed members of the Assembly of Turkey, the Commission for Assembly Research, which Needs to Investigating Divorce With Unsurlers, Who Negatively Affects Family Constructions, and Enhancing Measures for Enforcement of Family Organization: The husband is sentenced to eight years and more imprisonments, according to Article 103 of TCK.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0296par0083	Do they wear gold to the wedding, Mr. Secretary? Do they wear gold to the wedding?
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0297par0084	Congressmans, please, sir... please, sir...
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0295par0085	During the commission's work, some 3,000 couples were described by victims and other authorities.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0298par0086	Let one of you do it to your child in the House, to one of your children!
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0295par0087	▪ Women in question have applied to our commission and have personally explained their problems, expressing that it is difficult for them and their children to survive. In the commission, women have expressed that their marriage has continued in good health, that they have not complained about their wives, that they want to live with their wives, that their children and themselves have suffered severe psychological and material harm. As noted in the report of the relevant meeting, members of the Commission from different parties have expressed that similar complaints have come to them from different parts of our country.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0298par0089	There'll be a relative coming out of here, Mr. Secretary, make sure there's a relative. It's private, we know that.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0295par0090	For those couples who express only the defined victimology, there has been a need for an arrangement to compensate for the victims of women and children. The Commission has a recommendation for that effect. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0298par0092	There'll be a relative, and it'll be private. I'll follow him, whose relative he is.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit07spe0299par0093	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. An open vote will be carried out by electronic device, according to the decision taken. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within two minutes scheduled for a vote. Also, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote be voted by any minister in the two-minute period envisioned for the vote, which carries the color of the game and the signature of the vote with his name and name. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-17sit08spe0299par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 22nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The open vote of all of the Law Bill 438 rows was not enough for the meeting. Now I'm going to put the whole bill to an open vote again. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Since the second open vote did not find enough meetings, the decision was made to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order to meet with the bill and proposals, Friday (November 18th 2016) at 14 p.m. I'm closing the assembly at 00, so I'll say good night.
