tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 123°th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is from Burdur MP Reşat Petek, who asked for a statement on the coup attempt on July 15, 2016. Your time is five minutes, Mr. Petek. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0002par0011	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, my dear nation who listen to us at the beginning of their television, I salute you and our Veteran Assembly as we begin. The government is the nation's. With faith in the principle of July 15 coup attempt, I sincerely congratulate our esteemed deputies from our different parties, especially our Parliament Speaker, Ismail Kahraman Bey, who keeps our House open under bullets. I salute our nation, our country, our flag, our republic, our democracy, our proud nation, who has taken over the streets, the squares, the airports, and put the coups in their place. I give thanks and thanks and mercy to our heroic martyrs who have saved our future by sacrificing their lives and allowing us to speak freely on this stand. I thank our veterans who have sacrificed their bodies for the same lofty ideals, and wish them a speedy recovery. Dear lawmakers, we've come this way with our shrouds the size of the coupgers. We thank the President, who has delivered the messages of unity and unity to the world, along with our political party leaders, who stand up and invite our nation to resist. Even though the convoy has been hit by bullets from the early hours of the coup attempt, I would like to express our gratitude to our Prime Minister, who has led our nation's glorious resistance, and to the very high-value leaders and deputies of our political parties who have defended democracy together against the coups. I salute our media here, who have given a successful test by taking a crucial role in preventing the coup with their uncompromising attitude towards democracy in favour of our rights and freedom against the coupgers. I sincerely congratulate our heroic soldiers and our heroic policemen, who fought against the Hashashi militants at the command of the democratic system, the political authority, who did not betray their nation. We congratulate our President of the Religious Affairs and his organization for their historical stances, which have taken great pains in transitioning from the time of the coups to a time when persecution and floods were silenced by the coups. Dear lawmakers, on July 15th, we all showed our glorious resistance to the coupgers, provided our future, saved our future. We have all taken care of our country, our flag, our republic, our democracy together, and with a joint statement, we have announced our position to the world. We also presented the best example of reconciliation on the road to strong Turkey with our August 7th Yenikapı rally. The first country, one nation, one nation, one nation, with the slogans of all our political parties, has opened a new door to the culture of reconciliation that should be in democracy. We must continue together to keep this door open, to strengthen our differences in dealing with the problems our nation faces. If God forbid the coup attempt was successful, we can see together who they'd be after. They were going to make us all pay the price without any party distinction. So let's all continue to take care of our republic, our democracy, our flag, our tyranny, our country. Let's move on together without compromise from the principles of democracy and law. Let us strengthen and keep open our mechanisms, where the principle of giving the job to the people, which is considered the basic criteria of driver's licenses and merit in the state institutions, which are transparently controlled by the situation. My dear lawmakers, I hope that our future in this spirit of reconciliation will be more bright, peaceful and peaceful, so that we can continue this union of ours, hand in hand and heart, while we cherish our martyrs once again, I wish our veterans a healing from the Lord. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you, Mr. Petek. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Özkan Yılim, the Footman MP who wants to talk about the problems of students at closed universities. Your time is five minutes, Mr. Eater. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0004par0024	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear Court, my colleagues, may I say hello to you all and give my love and respect to our fellow citizens of the Republic of Turkey who are watching us. First of all, we've never forgotten the 15th of July, we won't forget. I'd like to rephrase the fact that we're facing any kind of blow, especially. So far, we've got a pretty busy agenda. There are a few of them, and most importantly, there are 15 universities that are currently closed, the state of our children, our students, who are studying at these universities. You know, we have 56,703 students in 15 universities. These students -- after the first statement, after the first statement made by the SEC -- were stated where they would be placed, and they were made. For example, a certain section of the University of Gediz in İzmir would be transferred to Kâtip Çelebi University, the University of Law, 9 September University, but we now see that this has been suspended as a result of objections from both the students and their rectors. We demand that this sacrifice be resolved immediately. Mr. President, the Prime Minister and the Minister of National Education had made this statement, stressing that not all of the students in the closed universities would definitely be harmed. We're getting serious calls from all the students right now, we're making calls, we want to talk to you about their problems. First of all, you know -- closed universities have 15 -- before every foundation university has a garantor college, according to the Foundation Institute of Higher Education Conventions, Article 25, 26 and 27. For him, as these closed universities are required in the law, for example, we stress that Gediz University definitely needs 9 September and other colleges at Gediz University to receive the necessary education in garantor universities as they open from the beginning. Now, what problems have come from the students so far, and we are highlighting the need to take steps from Mr. Minister of National Education regarding their solution. Yes, what did our students tell us? First of all, I want to make a very specific point, look, this is very important: Messages from the Turkish Armed Forces have started coming to our students at these closed universities, and they've been called to the army. So now that they've been cut off from colleges, they've expressed to themselves that seniors have been drafted. And their scholarship's been cut off. The next colleges they're going to go to, of course, right now, you know, it's still unclear where they're going to go. Hopefully, they'll be transferred to the nearest universities, to their own departments in the provinces they've read about, so that all of our students and families won't be forced any further. I would like to point out in particular that even the public transportation cards of these students have been turned off, which means they've been nullified. Likewise, in the summer schools where our students go, you know, they've paid their wages, they can't go on, they can't get their wages back. They want to be clear as soon as possible what they're going to write in their diplomas -- they're very nervous. They can't start the internship, or their internships are invalid because they haven't been paid for the SGK. So let's quickly clarify the situation of all our students at 15 universities, which have been shut down by the SEC, in order not to leave our students in much more curiosity, especially under the direction of our Minister of National Education and the President. We need to get into these garantarian universities and finish the rest of their years in their department and get our students to get their diplomas as soon as possible, because you know there's no crime in choosing these universities. Our most clear proposal here will be that the 15 universities that have been shut down will quickly become public universities, in their own universities, in their own places, in public universities, under the name of the new university, with the new chancellor, with his new administration, to continue their studies and get their diplomas as soon as possible; and we ask for him to do what needs to be done. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0005par0036	Thank you, Mr. Yum. The third non-responsive statement belongs to the Manisa MP, Erkan Akçay, who wants to talk about the problems of students at the closed universities. Your time is five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0006par0042	Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about the problems of university students who have been shut down. I salute your honorable committee. 15 foundation universities have been closed in connection with the Fethullah terrorist organization since the July 15th coup attempt. The institute of higher education has been appointed to the Higher Education Board, or SEC, in the applications for the institution of putting students at closed universities into public universities or foundation universities. For the implementation of this decision, the first SEC decision was made on July 28, 2016, which schools will be placed at closed universities. This decision sparked public debate, while the EC announced a new decision on August 3rd. According to this, students have announced that even though they will receive diplomas from universities where they have been placed, the names of the universities in which they were first registered will be written. This decision allowed students to move horizontally, while the last SEC decision dated August 4th was decided to relocate them on the basis of the scores the students received the year they entered the university. The SEC, which has been forced to make three decisions on the same issue in one week, is unable to manage the crisis well. After the decree was passed, statements about the universities that were closed said that there would be no casualties. However, new victims have emerged from the SEC decisions. Instead of resolving the victims, the NGO has made new arrangements to increase these victims. It would be appropriate for the ECHR to make a statement that relieves immediate anxiety. According to the latest SEC resolution, 50,000 students will be subjected to relocation with scores at the university. On the other hand, it's unclear what kind of burdens they're going to face at new universities. While students preferred these schools, they made decisions based on costs such as colleges, family budgets, house rents, dorm fees. Most students have made a four-year deal with dorms and some have paid their wages. In addition, these students are in danger of extending their university education by not counting the courses they have taken in schools they have attended before. Students have earned rights. Because of their rights, they should at least be able to continue their education in the cities where they are. Garanteur universities must be ensured that students at closed universities complete their studies. The Garantor should be allowed to teach here by coming to colleges that have been shut down. In fact, the correct decision for closed universities is that they continue to serve and operate under the name of a state university after they have been shut down and by the removal of other names and staff members. Second issue is a diploma. The SEC has decided that the schools that are closed in the students' diplomas will also be included. This decision is incompatible with the rule of law state. Crime is personal, and the punishment only binds the perpetrator. The name of the closed university will be mentioned in diplomas and records, which will lead to the association of many innocent students. Law and justice are acts of distinguishing the guilty from the innocent and the victim. There are students who are students at another university who are closed for summer school, who continue their studies, where they pay their tuition, which is a victim. The other issue is the status of the intern students at medical school. It's unclear whether these students will be transferred to other cities after a difficult education. I would like to point out that the generalization practices that will reveal the image that all of the students in these schools are members of the school must be carefully avoided. The SEC faces a serious test, a lot of questions and problems. Our students made their college choices from schools in the SEC manual. The safety of these preferences is management and government. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As a result, 50,000 students and their families wait desperately. The process operates against students and their families.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0007par0052	Mr. Akçay, complete, please; I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0006par0053	It is of great benefit that the SEC should take measures to address these victims as quickly as possible before the start of the new school year. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0007par0056	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Congressmans, now, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise the first 15 members of parliament entering the system one minute according to 60, and then I'm going to give my word to the members of the group as they request it. In order, I'll turn on the congressman's microphone. Let's start with Mr. Arik. Here you go, Mr. Arik.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0008par0062	Mr. President, as it is known, 15 foundation universities have been shut down. About 65,000 of our students and their families are very concerned right now. The families stress that they cannot recognize the danger that the government's rulers cannot perceive, not sending their children to these schools, not sending their children to these schools to study with them in state security, or sending their children to these schools because they have enough points for them. The University of Melikşah, founded as a garanteur at Ercijas University, was closed and transferred to Ercijas University. Students are told to choose again. Students' scholarships and loans have been cut. Families who are having trouble paying university fees stress that they can't get their children to study in another city. I would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister on behalf of innocent families and students: is the garantism of state universities limited to the transfer of buildings or does it not include the continuity of students' education? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0007par0064	Mr. Benli...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0009par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. August 7th is a historic day when our people show that they can be one heart for their country, leaving all their differences aside. I thank all of our citizens, especially our President, Prime Minister, Parliament Speaker, opposition leaders Kemal Kılıçdaroglu and State Bahçeli, and all of our citizens who attended the rally of democracy and martyrs in 81 provinces. Because, August 7th, our martyrs, who are not afraid to sacrifice their lives for their homeland, my arm, my leg, it's all right. I have a life, so what if I do? As long as we live in this country with our heads held high. It is a day when our veterans are honored. On August 7th, at the age of 15, Halil Ibrahims who gave their lives for this country, the Mahirs who walked to their deaths at the age of 16 and Uncle Cemal, who died at the age of 67, whose bodies were charred from the bomb, our police officers who had been fired, and the lives of Omar Halisdemir, 30 bullets in his body, were not in vain, and that no treacherous focus could ever succeed in Turkey again.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0007par0069	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0010par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Watering water is a major problem in Niğde Province. For years, barren areas have been looking forward to watering water. I have visited the village of Niğde Central Himmetli; the village of Bor Dardardere; the village of Bor Halaç; the village of Farm Asmamaz; the village of Mine, the village of Imrahor; the village of Gedelli, the village of Tepeköy, the village of Sheikhömerli, the village of Kolz, the village of Hasangazi, the village of Karacaören, and the village of Rooster. In the villages of Niğde Ryedarlı, in the village of Dikilitaş, in Orhaniye, in the villages of Kichmağ, and in the plains of Misli, watering water is also a problem. Commands are the problems that have been expected for years to be put into the closed system, to connect Argipınar to the Uluk pond, to prevent the Darmulke Pond, to resolve the water escape. The answers to my questions to the minister have been indicated that he was on the program, but so far there is no study of them. It is the expectation that this work will be done at once. In addition, the plains of Misli have been irrigated by electricity and wells, and farmers are victims of this. It is also the expectation that watering water will be brought from Ecemis, and water will be dissolved in this way.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0007par0073	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0011par0075	Mr. President, given the conditions for the contract teacher whose applications began yesterday, the requirement is 50 and more points as of the points for the area where he will be appointed for the 2016 Public Staff Selection Exam. This has been disappointing for those who have taken the KPSS test and scored 50 and more points in recent years. The application period for justice and rights must include the candidates who entered KPS before 2016, which will expire on 11 August. On the other hand, the 2010 KPSS, which was all canceled, has caused anxiety and fear in 150,000 officers. In an investigation into the 2010 KPSS, the officers involved in the investigation can be terminated, but the rights and laws of our innocent citizens who have earned the test and have been appointed as officers must be strictly protected.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0007par0077	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0012par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. In the July 15 coup attempt, we cannot ignore the rights of hardworking press workers and television stations, who are without condition, who stand by their country, state and nation, who stand in line with democracy and defend their bodies against the coup attempt, who lay down their lives in the streets, who are unable to sleep, tired, and may be shot before going home for days. Since televisions are broadcasting via frequency rental method, it is difficult to even stand on local-based channels, especially in Anatolia. Therefore, I propose that both thanking these organizations and giving them a life water, pay a month's worth of TÜRKSAT bills, as well as a monthly bonus to the executives and employees of publishing companies, Mr. Transport, Maritime and Communications Minister and Government. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0013par0082	Mr. Cakirözer...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0014par0084	Mr. President, 21 academics from Eskişehir Anadolu University have been suspended six and a half months after a disciplinary investigation was launched on the grounds that they signed the Declaration of Academics for Peace. While we disagree with the content of this declaration, the protection of the freedoms of expression of our academics, of our intellectuals is vital to our democracy. After the July 15 coup attempt, we must also demonstrate our solidarity at the point of the development of democracy, fundamental rights and freedoms and the state of law in our country. Obstruction of the press conference that the suspended academics want to hold on to on this issue means that their freedom of expression will be taken away once again. An academic who has been ordered to halt the execution has yet to be reinstated. It is our common wish that both these academics and Mr. Professor Öktem Tanör, 81 years old among them, be reinstated immediately.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0013par0086	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0015par0088	On Sunday (August 7th), in our 81 provinces, I sincerely congratulate all our citizens, who meet in the squares without religion, language, ideology, gender apartheid, one flag, one state, one nation, one nation, one country, one country, all of our unity and unity across the world. As our President says, God bless the gas. The great nation of Çanakkale, which shows that the fethullahist terrorist group still exists in the face of the great betrayal of the 15th of July, and that its existence will last forever, has cast fear into the hearts of the enemies who set their eyes on this precious land. As important as the place in the history of Hasan, Nene Hatun, and Imamah the milkman, so is the place of Omar Halisdemir, and of Sharie Boz, and of Metin Doğan, for us. We'll never forget our heroes who walked over the tanks without blinking, shielding their chests from the bullet. On this occasion, once again, I wish God's mercy to all of our citizens who have been killed in the July 15 coup attempt, and an urgent cure to our veterans, and I strongly curse the degenerates and traitors who belong to this network of betrayals. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0016par0092	Mr. Akadun...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0017par0094	Mr. President, highly valued lawmakers, I wish that the July 15 coup attempt that deeply wounded the Turkish community would be an opportunity to create a more fair, free and democratic country. Dear lawmakers, we all know that the government has not infiltrated the state's structure, which has been established in the state organization for forty-five years, but has been purposely planted. May my Lord and my people forgive me. The political responsible must also be questioned. As of 2007, I believe Mr. Abdullah Gul, who made the appointment to all universities as president, must be questioned by National Education Minister Hüseyin Çelik and Minister of Justice Cemil Cicek, who caused the arrest of an innocent chancellor in 2005 by cooperating with a prosecutor named Farhat Sarıkaya, and the suicide of the Secretary General of the Hundred Years University. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0018par0098	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0019par0100	I'm asking the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs that justice, full and complete investigation and prosecution will be established in the state of law. Due to the late investigation of the suspects, the late justice will make the witch hunt inextricable and make our entire community a suspect, along with their family. Many proud patriots whose lives have been fought against the terrorist organization, who have been taken without being publicly linked to the congregation, have been banned from meeting with the families of the Ataturkcı soldiers, doctors, teachers and public servants, some of whom have yet to be taken into custody. In order to ensure the functioning of the state of law, I demand that the statements of the suspects be taken immediately, that they be granted permission to meet their families, that the condition of the detained or imprisoned be reported to their families immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0020par0103	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0021par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. Milk incentives, known in villages as milk returns, are paid to our farmers in periods. During the first three months of 2015, the refrigerated milk incentive, which was paid as six cents per liter, which was paid as seven cents later this year, was reduced to six cents this year. In fact, manufacturers who can't sell their milk over co-ops receive a five-cent milk incentive. From mid- 2014 to October 2015, the price of milk was $1.15, and the number was reduced throughout Turkey. In Edirne, for example, the number is now down to a dollar and seven cents. In short, milk prices have declined despite inflation growth. In Turkey, lowering the price of milk price and dairy incentives as everything, especially dairy feed, clearly shows that the AKP government does not support the farmer. If we don't establish an effective support mechanism in the milk market, we can't expect dairy animalism to develop in the future.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0022par0108	Mr. Hero...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0023par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the most affected by the July 15 coup attempt is the students at universities that have been shut down. Most of the students who study at these universities have made their preferences according to the score, the financial situation, and the city in which they live, but they are now victimised. Many students, who are in this situation in Izmir, I know, have nothing to do with the congregation or the ▪ from a distance. According to the SEC's scores, the plan to place these students in universities in other cities or in areas they do not prefer will lead to new victims. For this reason, shortly before the new teaching period, there must be an urgent and fair solution to this problem, and if necessary, one of the universities handed over to the state must be restructured just for these students and removed the victims. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0024par0113	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0025par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. The last Crusade of the Crusade, the attempted coup, revealed to us who was a friend and who was an enemy to our beloved nation. Seventy-seven years ago, we signed an agreement establishing the Council of Europe. Europe is about to lose its young and dynamic Turkey, which has been waiting at its door for years. He did everything in his power to mature the conditions of the European coup plan, which has failed to keep his promises so far, and has also received our nation's reaction through hypocrisy. July 15th left our beloved nation alone after a low coup attempt. While the State of Emergency voiced criticism of Turkey's three-month State of Emergency decision, which brought the State of Emergency into one year and brought it to 30 days of detention, it approved the so-called Armenian genocide in its parliaments. He put the visa exemption they promised on the shelf for water reasons. He is now offering to halt the 3 billion-euro aid agreed to be given to our country, which has single-handedly hosted 3 million Syrian refugees. All of this has been deciphered by the treachery of the elderly Europe against our nation. Europe...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0024par0117	Mr. Hard...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0026par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. On July 15, 2016, I condemn all traitors who directly and directly support the coup attempt. Again, I congratulate Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, president of the Republican People's Party, who supported the Yenikapi rally on August 7th and is in a position to be there on a day that marks the start of a new history, and Mr. President of the National Movement Party, Mr. State Bahçeli. I also hope that the meeting with Mr. Putin, who is still being held today, Mr. Erdogan, will be good for our country. Again, I would like to point out that I strongly condemn the attitudes of Western countries and developed countries who have not made a sound against the coup. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0027par0125	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0028par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. We often warn from here that investigations against the Fethullah Gülen Community must be carried out by the universal values of the law with respect to the rights of fair trial and not to stain people. In particular, the introduction of law to personal anger and past feuds in this process will produce consequences and sacrifices that will be unreachable in the future. What happened at Giresun University's axis, which I passed on to our legal commission and did the necessary work, is an example of what I said. A commission established at the university and discussed its objectiveness was carried out by the former chancellor, Dr. Aygün Attar, who was involved in the investigation into the investigation, and was processed by turning the administrative investigation into a criminal investigation, and was released with testimony. Once again, there must be no means of blaming people without being proven by the reports to the security and judicial authorities. The relevant ministries must quickly send warnings to local executives. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0029par0132	And finally, Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0030par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of National Education: Many educational centres and student pensions have been closed in Adana province as part of the investigation. Aside from the criminals, the businesses that I know, the social democrats, too, have been shut down. It is practiced within the understanding of a witch hunt, or rather, age is burned along with the dry. When we meet with the governor of the province, the governors say we look, we look, but we don't get any results soon. We see that the governors do not take initiative. I'm speaking to the Minister here: Governors should be given initiative, evaluations should be made at the beginning of the training period, age must be separated from the dry, rights and rights must be protected. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0031par0137	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who are now entering the system. Mr. Akçay, let's start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0032par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. On Sunday (August 7th), we had one of the most important days of Turkish political life in Yenikapiı. The Turkish nation has met in partnerships, not differences. Without a doubt, our most important associate is our moon star flag. In Yenikapi Square, the Turkish nation gathered in the shadow of our flag, calling out its independence, unity, and integrity to the world once again. The process, which began on the evening of July 15th, and was crowned with the Yenikapi, has caused fear to the enemy, with the standing of one and all Turkish nation in the face of threats. The achievements of April 23, 1920, October 29, 1923, were once again claimed by Yenikapi. From July 15th to Yenikapı, the Turkish nation's stance is guaranteed and registered to the indivisible integrity of our country. For the sake of our country, we need to use this attitude in the right place. I'd like to finish my speech with our President-General's call from Yenikapı on August 7th: "Our enemies are more than our differences. The blessings of our apocalypse, the memories and wills of our martyrs are in the hands of all of us. We must protect our unity with envy and determination. We need to cut polarization and confrontations like knives. The souls of our martyrs, the tears of their martyr mothers, the heartaches of orphans, the hopes of generations are with us, and they are with us. You guys left your coup d'etats in the terrorists' installations. You turned the rotten people who challenged the government and the nation away from you. Therefore, the 15th of July is a milestone.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0033par0146	I'll give you an extension, Mr. Akchay. Here, finish up.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0032par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's start a new chapter; let's draw a road map of the future with a national consensus, by upholding the rule of law, by maintaining human rights and freedoms. Let us surprise those who dare to tarnish Turkey's historical rights. The country is not an orphan, the nation is not an orphan, the state is not an orphan. Surrounded from the inside and the outside, Turkey will rise with hearts of faith, loyalty, and love, and the higher its head will touch the throne. You did it on July 15th, and from now on, you're the ones who will break the circle and save the country. We have no choice but to succeed, and we have no choice but to live independently. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0034par0151	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0035par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on August 7th, a rally was held with the participation of three political parties in the presidency in Istanbul's Yenikapi. We, first of all, celebrate the spirit of the people involved in this rally that is truly anti-plotic, its commitment to democracy and its selfless attitude. The people in Yenikapı have seen the darkness that the July 15 coup attempt will take the country and have expressed the message of full democracy with all sincerity. Sadly, the images that appear on stage and immediately in front of the stage, or the attitudes posed by political leaders, have caused us great concern that the messages made by the people there were not correctly evaluated. We consider this position, which in terms of the political history of Turkey, does not understand the anti-plotist attitude of the people in Yenikapi, which does not have the 79 million inclusive messages there, to be a great misfortune and a huge mistake in Turkey's political history. The fact that the militantism that brought the country to the brink of a coup has shown itself on stage is a contradiction in itself. Again, the fact that there was not a single message given about the surrender of the rights of different identities and peoples in this country, especially the Kurds and Alevis, has shown that we are also facing great challenges for the future process. Workers, workers, especially workers, I want to say once again that understandings that do not address the basic issues of women's freedom will not bring a solution to the fundamental issues of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0036par0159	I'll give you an extension, Mr. Baluken, complete. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0035par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Again, I repeat: I repeat the call of the anti-plotist public in Yenikapı: that political leaders and President Erdogan should read the pro-democracy stance correctly, that they should immediately give up these wrongs that have polarised society and set the stage for conflict. On the other hand, today the Plan Budget Commission has been reduced to a total coup law. The AKP government continues to sign under all wrongs during this period, particularly the application of the state of emergency. Of course, in this bill, which will be criticised in many ways, especially in the fact that the mayors have been removed from office and have been given the power to appoint trustees, and that the regulations that would mean the liquidation of municipal councils are the very concept of coup and the mind of coups. You removed the Prime Minister, appointed a trustee, or appointed the mayor... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you interfered with Parliament or you purged the city council. It's the same understanding.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0037par0166	I'll open it, Mr. Bauken. Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0035par0168	This understanding, this wrong, must be abandoned at once. The districts of Hakkari and Şırnak province are also intended to end these two cities without asking the people there. Hakkari, thank you, Mr. President, should be made a regional attraction, along with a settlement and peace project, which will be the province of Şırnak, Yüksekova and Cizre.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0037par0170	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0038par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. In the process that began on July 15th, we have a very clear stance as the Republican People's Party and underline that all political layers in Turkey must follow the process following. When we show this care and attention, of course, we will, after this, strive to contribute to the strengthening of Turkey's democracy by always expressing our clear stance on democracy, human rights, fundamental rights and freedoms. Mr. President, on Friday (August 5th 2016) in the days of such dissolution in the political climate, our Adana MP, Mr. İbrahim Özdish Pozant, who attended the liberation ceremonies of Pozant (Pozant) on Friday (August 5, 2016), met with the end of his subsidiary, and he met with the words of my Kaymakamam, which were unacceptable and arrogant, as he waited for a statement about the arrival of Ataturk to Pozant. Now, at a time when politics, especially millions of people, met on August 7th, were considered to contribute to this political atmosphere and try to soften this climate, we express that we condemn the authority of a trustee and his presumptuous behaviors that overstep the bounds, and we expect an apology immediately. The Home Office has stated that they will do the necessary work on this matter, and we have not been returned to our side until now. I'd like to point out that we're going to be very serious followers of this, and that this is the governor-in-law who sabotaged this process, and that we've been following this very carefully. Mr. President, there's been another ironic situation. On August 7th, the Prime Minister spoke to millions in Yenikapiı, reading poems from Nazim Hikmet. Again, when we were speaking at the group meeting today, he said, "My heart was there." But where's Nazim?
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0039par0177	I'll give you an extension, Mr. Sky. Here, finish up.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0038par0179	Mr. Prime Minister reads his poems in Yenikapı, and expressed at the group meeting today, one of Turkey's leading artists, Mr. Genco Erkal, was banned by Kadiköy High School in Sofra, where Mr. Genco Erkal wanted to perform. So Prime Minister Nazim will read poems from Hikmet, but he will ban a demonstration of Nazim. Is such a painting acceptable? So we're experiencing extremely ironic situations in this painting. So I think it's an isolated incident, and I think it's a matter that needs to be resolved immediately. We demand this disrespect to a giant artist like Genco Erkal and to be processed for school administrators acting contrary to the Prime Minister's remarks. It's no one's place, so it's the council that's going to lead the politics. Outside of politics, about those who have contributed negatively to the formation of politics immediately...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0039par0181	Please complete, Mr. Sky. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0038par0183	Through extraordinary circumstances, these bureaucrats, these executives, must be taught a lesson in the process that everyone wants to take with care and careful language so that their messages can be fully fulfilled. I wanted to express them. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0039par0185	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Mush, we're turning on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0040par0189	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly and your delegation. There was a historic meeting in our country on August 7th. There were extraordinary meetings in the entire province of Turkey, particularly Yenikapı, that revealed how the country and the nation met against coups, and the largest of them were organised in Istanbul. Our nation once again showed its will from steel against the coupters, and here we had people from all parts of our nation; we had workers; we had Turks, we had Kurds, we had Alevi, we had participants from all parts of the community, because they were here. This coup attempt to divide our country, trying to tear it apart, has, in contrast, bound our country further after this process, brought our society closer to each other. I'd like to say once again that the meeting held here on August 7th in Yenikapi is a meeting of citizens who have given steel will to the coup d'état against the national will with the tank. Turkey will continue its fight with the PKK and with the PKK's terrorist organisation, while fighting with it on the one hand. There won't be any setbacks here, and he'll keep his resolve on this. Turkey will move on uninterrupted, unbreakable. Neither the PKK nor the DHKP-C or other terrorist organisations will be able to stop our country from taking a holy march. On this occasion, I salute and salute our great nation, who are attending these meetings, who are supportive, who have taken an extraordinary stand in this coup attempt.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0041par0193	Thank you, lawmakers. Let's move on to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having them read separately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the problems of our citizens who work in the tourism sector and to determine measures to protect the rights of workers, we demand that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution of the 98 and TEMM Council. 1) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Isparta]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] [[Denizli]] [[Manisa]] 10) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 13) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] 14) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Sinop]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] There are serious problems in working life in Turkey, especially off-the-books work. The organization of employees has become difficult, the minimum wage is almost basic. In this painting, business accidents and working deaths are also increasing. Tourism is Turkey's engine industry, and the most important problem of the economy is the drug of the current deficit. Turkey has hosted 189.5 million foreign tourists in the last five years (2010-2015) and earned $137.2 billion. Resolving the problems of the workers who sustain the tourism sector with their hard work, improving working conditions will allow tourism to contribute more to the country's economy. Tourism in Turkey can't spread throughout the year and all Turkey because of the lack of needed investment and promotion. As a result, tourism workers can't get out of seasonal labor. Seasonal work results in serious losses in employees' rights. Although this long - suffering in tourism has been on the agenda, a solution has not been developed. It is clear that the state is required to lead the tourist facilities in an effort to ensure that they remain open for the rest of the busy season. In this scope, it may be an important step in reducing labour loads of tourism businesses in the low season in terms of tourist mobility. In addition, such practices as tax benefits and increased promotional activities will contribute well. Businessmen will also make more effort to operate for 12 months with the support to be provided. A full year's stay of tourist facilities would mean more contributions to the country's economy and 12 months' work for tourism workers. It would be wise for the TBM to address the problems of the strategic tourism sector for Turkey to support tourism workers. For these reasons, a parliamentary investigation is required to determine measures to investigate the problems of tourism workers and improve the working conditions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In recent weeks, the government has increasingly increased claims that the ODTÜ has targeted ODTÜ due to the negativeities of ODTÜ, one of Turkey's most important universities, due to scientific and administrative structures and Rant accounts. Whether a false perception was created or not, the facts need to be revealed by investigating whether these claims were true or not. We respectfully submit to the opening of a Parliamental inquiry under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, since the Republic of Turkey will not be subject to prosecution. [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Burdur]] [[Ankara]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] 17) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] ODTÜ, one of Turkey's most important universities, is an internationally important educational institution with historical, cultural and scientific qualities. In its historical process, ODTÜ, which has been brought up on numerous occasions, has been on the top of the agenda again in the past few weeks. The debate between students who prayed in the mosque within ODTÜ compound and students who claimed ISIS militants were organised at the mosque, while the process of calming the school administration and resolving the problem has increased with the fact that some elements have been involved. In accordance with ODTÜ's rule, which will be completed in June 2016, Professor Ahmet Acar, who will not be in office again, according to the rule of ODTÜ, "do no more than two terms," has been called to resign by MEMUR-SEN. Prime Minister Professor Ahmet Davutoglu performed Friday prayer at ODTÜ mosque that same week. In addition to all these developments, a cyber attack on Turkey's websites broke out with the Russian crisis. As you may recall, ODTÜ has been the only institution to have the technical infrastructure needed in 1992, and has been providing control of this technology for years, making up Internet technology as an extension site in Turkey. Because of the cyber attack, the Ministry of Transport wanted to take this control, but a statement came from the Ministry when his request was negatively concluded by ODTU. According to this, ODTU was not cooperating with security units. Deputy Prime Minister Lütfi Elvan accused the ODTÜ president of acting like an emperor. On the other hand, as it is known, ODTU is built on a land with large green areas. And these green areas are entirely ODTU's own work, and again, it's known that contractors are eyeing this particular property. In short, ODTU also has a rising desire for a runt. As a result, as we are trying to sum up the developments above, the government's claims that ODTÜ has targeted ODTÜ is increasing due to scientific structures and Rant accounts. Thus, the facts need to be revealed by investigating whether or not a false perception was created, whether these claims were true or not. A parliamentary research commission on the issue should be set up and the allegations should be investigated, since the Republic of Turkey will not be considered to be subject to charges. Furthermore, with the research, it is possible to demonstrate that those who pray in the mosque within ODTU are only those who perform their religious obligations, showing that a terrorist organisation such as ISIS does not live in the heart of Ankara and to remove the fear of public opinion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Air pollution, defined as the presence of solid, liquid, and gas-shaped foreign substances in the atmosphere, harming the living life and environmental balance, has particularly severe and devastating consequences for human health. The Marmara region is the most heavily exposed to population pressure and atmospheric pollutants, depending on the rapid industrialization of our country. In parallel with this pollutant pollution, human health is negatively affected, and air pollution-related respiratory disease, myocardial infarction, asthma, lung cancer cases have increased. The measures on this matter remain inadequate, and the size of the problem is growing day by day. For these reasons, we would like to submit to the opening of Parliamental research on Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the measures that must be taken by the problems of air pollution and air pollution in the province of Tekirdağ. 17/12/2015 [[Tekirdağ]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Denizli]] [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Kayseri]] [[Hatay]] 15) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] 16) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 20) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] In the first joke of our Constitution's Article 56, everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. It is the duty of the state to avoid pollution in the next joke. Despite this clear decree of our constitution, it is observed that adequate measures have not been taken to protect the environment and human health, and that industrialisation and environmental balance have been corrupted against the environment. Land and sea transport, heat and industrial air pollution are among the most effective and negative factors for human health among environmental problems. Because of dense human population and rapid industrialization, the area where air pollution poses the most risks is the Marmara region. In particular in the last decade, air pollution has increased unusually, depending on the factors mentioned in the area of our provinces of Tekirdağ and Edirne. The weather maps, based on aerial photos taken by Goddard headquarters of the American National Aviation and Space Agency, and based on the data from the last decade, show that the most intense air pollution in our country has occurred in our province of Tekirdağ. Similarly, according to the weather quality monitoring stations that serve the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, although below the danger limits, in November and December, air pollution in Tekirdağ province is expected to increase. It's clear that when combined with other environmental pollutants, it's below limits, but it's likely to increase the threat to human health by increasing the effects of air pollution. The size of the threat is even more important, especially given the increased air pollution caused by warming during the winter season. There is a need for immediate measures. For the reasons listed above, we have reason to believe that it would be appropriate to open a parliamentary investigation to determine the measures that must be taken by our Grand Assembly, with the problems caused by air pollution and air pollution in the district of the Marmara and Tekirdağ. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, now, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Tuesday 9/8/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. On 5 August 2016, Diyarbakır MP Mr. İdris Baluken (2569 rows) suggested that prosecutors and judges who were dismissed as part of the coup attempt on July 15, 2016, be read in the proceedings concerning the cases they had filed, particularly the TK operations, to be prosecuted, and to be held in the same session of the parliamentary inquiry submitted to the Grand National Assembly in order to open the same date of the proceedings. The first speaker in favour of Peoples' Democratic Party group proposal is Mardin MP Mithat Sancar. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Sancar, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0042par0381	Dear President, members of lawmakers, yes, on the evening of July 15th, there has been a grave and bloody coup attempt on this country. From that day forward, we discuss various dimensions both in the Parliament and in various areas of the public. A variety of steps are being taken, a counter-inflicted measure, and various arrangements are being made. One of the most remarkable of them is the dissolution of the judiciary. In our previous talks, we've noted that it's a duty of the state to approve the people involved in the coup attempt, the organiser of the coup, the gang, the group, the junta, in any way involved in it, is a right, it's a legal right, but it's also a obligation to be carried out by objective investigations. Otherwise, as we constantly stress, it is not possible for you to fight the coup attempt, the whims and the plans of the coup d'etat. So far, we don't know clearly the number of judges and prosecutors who have been dismissed, suspended, deposed, questioned, because they're constantly changing, so it's going up like stockmarks, and sometimes, you know, it's going steady, it's drawing straight lines. It is also the government's duty to make regular information on this issue, and it is the right of the public to ask for information about it. In particular, the dissolutions in the judiciary are extremely important. Prosecutors and judges are being suspended or suspended. What, in this case, will be the investigations, the lawsuits, the trials, the trials, and the verdicts that these judges and prosecutors have launched before? It is not possible to end injustices without confronting them, without taking this matter seriously, but it is possible to create far more severe injustices in the new era. The ACK operations that started in time a few years ago have produced very important results in this society, causing severe damage. Again, constant warnings were issued during the time of these operations. Our party at the time did this through its representatives and spokesmen, as the public, intellectuals, academics, legalists, warned the government at all times that these operations were based on another account, that they were part of a plan to deepen the conflict in the Kurdish issue, that the government had repeatedly explained with various reasons and data, but as the government did not heed these warnings at that time, I, the Prime Minister of the period, have claimed these cases, I am behind the end of these operations. He invited the other two parties in parliament, the MPP and CHP, to be behind these operations, and he said, "Let's have these operations in a state of national unity." Now, we're looking at prosecutors and judges who have been removed from office today or are being investigated in the program of the major political liquidation and decommissioning of the KCK operation. The numbers aren't right in front of us, they're not easy to detect. How many prosecutors, how many judges, how many prosecutors suspended today, how many judges are responsible for the TK cases, we don't know that clearly. That's why we're making this research proposal. We want to know, and the public has a right to know. Why were those operations in Turkey, which led to a very bloody period in the Kurdish problem, with the most typical characteristics of the coupters' understanding, such as eliminating politics, planned by whom, through which prosecutors and judges were carried out? It's not just a matter of prosecutors and judges, but, you know, security forces, especially forensic police, are preparing the infrastructure of operations. So, again, we ask: how many of the police officers, chiefs, officers, and officers who collected the data from those files at that time, who put very false documents in the files under the name of listening, who gave them to judges and prosecutors, were arrested as members of what you call the organization, arrested, tried, exposed? We have to find out, we have to know. Again, in a speech before this, I said that if you hide the truth, it will not disappear, but it will cause new wounds in society because of the injustices it will create for which you hide the truth. If you don't heal these wounds, you'll be dealing with the conscience of a society that bleeds all the time and the suffering of society. If you want to correct a wound, if you want to correct a wound, the way is clear: justice and truth. You try to comfort yourself by closing the path to justice and truth; you may be relieved for a while, but all the truth that you cover up, all the justice that you obstruct, comes out to you after a while, is a much greater problem. Today, the purges under the name of the coup attempt have become extremely enjoyable. We'll continue to move the details of the liquidation programs for the academics to the agenda of the House on other grounds. Everyone wants to see their own account, especially with various divisions of the government, on this occasion. For example, what does it have to do with the coup attempt of academics suspended at the University of Anatolia? None of this has anything to do with the congregation. Now, if you're going to be sincere, if you really want to find out where the relationship is with the coup, the circumstances that led to this coup, which relationships actually created it, start by yourself. First, how many of you, how many of you, did you do to make this organization powerful and powerful, so that it could have so much power? First you go back inside yourself and do this research, and then it's going to make people suffer, and see how unfair the arbitrary methods you're doing now are. If you have any intention of actually carrying out the fight against the coup, you have to pay for everything you've done. I'm going to give you a passage from a writer, and I'm going to end my conversation with this passage. He says you have to pay for what you've done. The only story that holds value is that you pay the price. But you have the right and power to turn a story that you pay for, otherwise it's a disgrace. If you really want to condemn coups, coups, coups, and practices, and take them off the agenda of Turkey until the end, we have to pay for what you've done, what you've done, what you've done in this coup, what you've done. We all have to face it, but most of all, the AKP, which has been in power for 14 years, has to do most of all this government. This call for confrontation is a sincere call. I invite you all to consider it. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0043par0393	Thank you, Mr. Sancar. The first speaker against the group's proposal is Mr. Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0044par0398	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on the HDP group proposal. Our agenda is clear. We have international contracts on our agenda, important international contracts. We're thinking of enforcing these contracts today that we agree to, that we agree with the groups. Therefore, I say we cannot accept the group's proposal, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0045par0402	Thank you, Mr. Can. Second speaker in favour of the group's proposal, Mr. Haluk Pekşen of Tripoli. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0046par0407	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I wish the people in the AKP desks were here when we had this talk so that when we added something new from the past to the present day, they could at least take it seriously and pay attention. Mr. President, there is a coup attempt, a coup attempt, a coup attempt that has not been delivered to a newspaper, and there is a coup in Turkey, and there is a coup preparation in this stand, in the media, in the squares. Everyone has been right, but it is necessary to celebrate the ruling party that serves this right. In fact, a political power can only be so supportive of a coup, it turns out he can be so indifferent. I'd love to tell it with a very familiar joke, at least to keep it in memory. In World War II, there was a very familiar joke, a young and beautiful girl, an old lady and a German general on a train from Danzig to Warsaw in Poland. During the train march, he entered a tunnel, a sound of a kiss in the darkness, and a sound of a slap. When the train came out of the tunnel, everyone was thinking, "Well, the girl kissed the wrong person, and she got the slap." The old woman said: "Oh, let her touch me; look, the boy kissed the girl, but she got a good slap, and she got the slap she deserved." The general said: "Ya, it's not a job, the boy kissed the girl, I got the slap." The Polish boy said, "I kissed the German general who invaded the country, but I gave him a slap for God's sake." As you can see, it's not what you perceive, it's no reality, it's a different outcome. Now, here, and in the events that have happened since this attempt, unfortunately, it doesn't seem to be going to sit on the ground that should have happened. People on the street, citizens, they have very serious questions in their heads. The most important question for everyone in Turkey today is the anxiety of the future, the question of what will happen tomorrow. To answer that question, you must first look at this: If he is a member of the armed forces, do not hesitate; if he is a member of the organization, he is not a member of the Armed Forces. The basic rule in an armed force is to surrender its power to the legitimate basis of political will. A bureaucrat who does not surrender his power to the legitimate grounds of political will is not a bureaucrat of the state, nor is a judge of the state, nor is a soldier of the state. Then we need to look where we are today, because if we know where we are, we can figure out where we're going. Where we are today, we are in a judicial system with AKP power and 10.57 per cent of the people on trial. So, 8.5 million people are being investigated, but if 10.57 percent are being tried, the investigations are being used as a threat, as a boomerang, to suppress society. So, what you've done to the judiciary so far, let it be with me. Let it be with you. It's not sustainable for you either. That's the main reason for the heavy confrontation you face today. Then we can figure out where you're supposed to go from here. Honourable lawmakers, look, you've attempted to design society, suppress society, beyond the appearance of a trial. You've done this in a lot of areas, you've done it in a political field, you've done it in a fight against terrorism. Here, under the pressure of terrorism in Eastern and Southeast Asia Minor, there have been great attacks against those who were made under the name "judgment," but none of us have heard of them, so we said, "There is terror," and we turned our heads to one side. But not seeing the problems is causing the problems to get bigger, we've seen them. To the same thing, they were coupters for the Armed Forces, they had struck in the past, they did it in 1960, they did it in 1970, they did it in 1980; today, forget it, my dear, let them rub their noses in. You should have been ready for your turn when you kept quiet. They didn't just do it there, they did it on trial, they did it on bureaucracy. The Bureaukraside -- here, we made a point -- the People's Bank is going through the biggest robbery in history, and it still is today, but since the robbers are allies, you still have your judgment as a boomerang. TRT, the TRT that's giving us flowers to the Republican People's Party these days, is going through the biggest heist in history, and it still is, and the investigations still haven't been completed. When are you going to take action to stop being an institution that the early riser robbed? Friends, in order for justice and judgment to be permanent in this country, you have to run the three most important steps. One: you must accept and operate parliamentary control unconditionally. Number two: You need to make the judicial audit an audit that will bring justice out of the boomerang. Three: You need to stop suppressing the inspection boards we call internal control, which are in all the state's institutions, and you need to reboot those boards. After doing these three, there are very heavy doubts on the second stage of judgment. Today, I'm sure there are thousands and thousands of people out on the street who have committed real crimes, but have taken an opportunity from this dire state of judgment to act as if they're innocent. On the contrary, there are consequences, indeed, that are extremely innocent, but the politicalisation of the judiciary is also victimised by the fact that the judiciary is under the control of a certain organization. Now, look, let me give you an example. The organization, this community organization, I assure you, will drown you in a spoon of water. Don't take it so lightly. This place is serious. I'll give you an example. There'll be a lot of websites in a few days, electronically. These websites will be in many parts of the world, making some very serious claims about you. One of the most important claims will be Ahmet, Mehmet, Kemal, Hasan, and so on and so forth and they'll say, "They're from the community." I assure you, that's what people say on those websites. The most important function of the judgment is to catch the right man, but you're going to fall into all of these traps, and you're usually going to catch the wrong guys -- like you always do -- because the congregation is very professional and very prepared. He's about to lure you into this trap, and I'm seeing it now. For example, the children of Republican People's Party families, their members, are under various operations called the ecclesists. This is a process of preparing for the question mark in your head, slowly, and also by you. As soon as you fall into this trap, make sure you're trapped in the biggest trap of evidence blackouts. Don't fall for it. The right thing is: Be patient, find the right man, and give him the punishment he deserves. As long as you can't give it to me, it'll be a great sacrifice. Another thing: there are very serious allegations in the Supreme Court, there are serious allegations within the judiciary about the actions of judges. Make sure the Supreme Court has a legal authority over the interim. The Council of Supreme Court of Judges must restore the possibility of a retrial by making some legal provisions based on the penal code in particular, and there are very serious allegations about them in society. I'll give you one example, my friends: some of the treasures have been given a time-out by the lawyers of the community. The judges of the congregation decided, approved the Supreme Court of the congregation, and took possession of very serious treasures. The land of treasure in the Aegean region, in the Mediterranean region, with great value; turn, and you shall see that it is true. I suggest you start retrial proceedings on this. I would advise you to return immediately to the personnel who have been suspended from the Armed Forces with the story of this parish. Again, you have to bring those pilots, the pilots who have been separated from the Armed Forces, to fly as they do in many countries of the world. On certain days of the month, on certain months of the year, the Air Force must call them in and force them to fly, and you must ensure it. Again, the Justice Department must immediately settle the lawsuits filed by several armed forces officers who have been victims of these conspiracy cases by setting up a negotiating table. I thank you all very much, very much.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0047par0424	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen. The second and final speaker against the group proposal is İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0048par0429	Mr. President, I've been promised against the HDP group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, the 15th of July, I ask for mercy for our martyrs, and I remember them with gratitude and gratitude. May Allah make their dwellings a paradise, and may He treat them with the Garden of the Lord the Most High, and may I pray for patience for his kinsmen and his household. We have 2,191 wounded, and I wish each one of them a cure. During that time, our beloved nation wrote an epic, and the last of which was in Yenikapi, Istanbul, gave a beautiful message both inside and outside. Inside, we wrap our wounds together. It was his message, and out, we will write an epic democracy with our union. It was his message. With these feelings and thoughts, I declare that we will vote against the HDP group proposal because we have international contracts on the agenda. As of today, the international contracts our people have been waiting closely for, and long-awaited, hopefully we'll have all the political party willed together. That's why I say we voted against it, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0049par0434	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. I will submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0050par0436	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit01spe0049par0437	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0049par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the People's Democratic Party Group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the proposal... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the proposal is not accepted. Congressmans, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and processed and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to request that you be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37, under which 14/12/2015 dates and 2/470 main numbers come to your presidency, referred to the Plan and Budget Commission on 18/01/2016 and amended by Muktar Payment and Social Security Law. 06/03/2016 Yours truly. Before inviting the speaker on the motion, Mr. Sky, Deputy Chairman of the Republican People's Party Group, entered the system. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0051par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there's one thing we all need to be careful about in this process. In order to address the legal problems of our victims, victims of previous trials, we actually wanted to present a law proposal today regarding the extradition of victims of the military espionage cases, Ergenekon, Balyoz, Military Espionage cases. This bill was proposed by Mr. Akif Hamzacebi on 4 July 2014. Turkey has been waiting for more than two years at the Grand National Assembly. We have withdrawn this law from him and from Mr. Sezgin Tanrıkulu, at a request from the AKP Group. It's an important law. The government needs to extradite the rights to many victims, such as progress in rank, progress in degree. We say that we expect that this issue will be resolved without long waiting by AKP executives and that our wills to be raised within the next week will be co-organised. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0052par0023	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Sky. Members of parliament, Mr. Kazim Arslan will speak on the motion. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0053par0032	Mr. President, I have made a solemn commitment to the establishment of the rights of our chiefs, which I gave to you on December 14, 2015, as part of the Article 37 of our Civil Code, and also to the direct agenda of our proposal to meet their basic needs by the state. I salute you all with love. We would like to propose a amendment to Mayor and Social Security Act 2108 in City and Towns 4541 in the District Mayor and Old Man's Office. Because the number 6360 Metropolitan Law, 34,500 of our village, has been closed down to 16,082, and has turned into a neighborhood. Our chiefs who have turned into this neighborhood have only the seal of our leaders who have turned their villages into neighborhoods, their powers have been stripped, they have no power left, and I think this offer is useful to get them back. Not only has the mayor's office been stripped of its corporate personality, but it has been put in the position of the mayors, the mayors, who have been asked to do so. These were not enough, but they were taken away from the village's real estate, from many of its resources, from the zeal of the village's corporate personality, from which many of its properties are within the city's limits, and from which the village's real ownership has been taken. In fact, many village chiefs have had to continue to work in an exposed position, if their village chief has been sold, who has become a tenant inside their own property. Now, with this law... in particular, in the past, our chiefs' salaries have been raised to $1,300 at the insistence of the Republican People's Party, but the social security premium has unfortunately been condemned to pay from their own pockets. However, as a representative of the state, I think it's wrong for me that a person who does all kinds of government work, who carries responsibility and is treated like a government official, is not covered by social security, which should be corrected. For this, it is also necessary to ensure that the social security of our chiefs will be met by the state, and that if they have a basic need for rent, electricity, water, natural gas, telephone fees, internet fees, and that they will be able to perform their duties in a better way. My dear friends, if we don't put our chiefs in a position of strength, leave them out of work, put them in trouble, put them in a position of financial improbability, we'll be in a position of subjugation, no say, no weight in their village, in their neighborhood. For him, I think it's appropriate that the buildings in our neighborhoods, especially the buildings in our neighborhoods, the buildings within the borders of the major cities, are delivered into the hands of our mayors, as well as in the hands of our mayors, and that the state has freely dedicated its duties to it, and that its basic needs are met. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0054par0039	Thank you, Mr. lion. The second speaker on the motion is Mr. Yasar Charter of Bilecik MP. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0055par0044	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a promise that Mr. Kazim Arslan, our Denizli MP, has made a direct proposal for the law on the muhtars. I salute your high council. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, as a friend of yours who's been a member of the city council and mayor in the past... this law was discussed in this great Parliament at the time of the amendment to the Mahalli Law of Administrations in 2014. In the meeting, you took 31 provinces into the whole city, which is outside of all cities of 29 provinces of all cities, which are called Istanbul, Seipeli, and (also called the "pergel law"). As this bill was discussed, we spoke many times on this bench in those days, and we said: "You are making a mistake. As a result, the capital will be closed, and the neighborhood will fall. With this law, you've actually taken away nearly 16,000 of our chiefs' power as head of staff, in a way, to major city municipalities and even district municipalities, to sub-level municipalities. We said it was wrong. We said our mayors had problems at the point of their rights. Last semester, we, as the Republican People's Party Group, improved their salaries a little bit. But, my dear friends, the situation is that at this point, our mayor gets paid minimum wage, but our neighborhood head pays a premium of $570, and our village head pays a premium of $435. I mean, there's no chance of any investments, sanctions, self-restraint from the salary you have left. Of course, in this proposal, we demand that the social security premium of our chiefs be paid by the Ministry of Internal Affairs or by the state's private administrations. In the same way, we want to provide electricity, water, telephones and heating costs for the service buildings of our chiefs in the first place, so we've made an offer. We're about to vote on this proposal, especially the ruling party MP, and I'm telling our AKP MP friends: are you going to vote at the point where our leaders' problems are resolved, or should our leaders' problems not be resolved, let's move on, there's no need for this? It's very important here. For days now, we've been holding similar rallies in different counties and provinces of our country, especially in rural villages, under the republic and democracy rally. What was the point? The goal was to show our unity to all Turkey and to the world. We've done it, we've supported it at the level of our presidents, at the level of our MPs, at the level of our mayors, at the level of our mayors. Now, we'll see how close this union is in a minute. If we can get this union together here today, sir, I think it will pass on the rights of our leaders, who are the first representative of the republic and democracy. If you don't do this... I don't know if you know the content of our offer -- you're dealing with most of the phones, you're answering the phones -- but the offer we're offering, friends, is that we want these social security premiums to be paid by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the state's private administrations. This is the content of our proposal, and we also want the electricity, water, bills, and internet costs in our chiefs' mansions to be paid by the state's private administration and the Interior Ministry, which is still in its hands. So you've already made our chiefs workers in the city. In major cities, in lower-level municipalities, an ordinary staff -- you can't say "capital" -- the local head of staff, unfortunately, fell into the position of a worker in science. At least at the point of the crowning of democracy these days, I beg you to vote yes for this democratic right, and I demand it. In the name of the 34-35,000 head of Turkey, I beg you. You're about to pass the intimacy test, and if you're voting yes, at the point of the agenda, we'd like to thank you as the Republican People's Party Group. If you're going to vote no, I'm already filing a complaint against you, the AKP MPs, to 35,000 head of staff. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0056par0051	Thank you, Mr. Charter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues and move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked 1st in line with the approval of the Protocol relating to Montenegro's Joining the North Atlantic Treaty. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 407 rows. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP İdris Bauken will now speak on behalf of the entire bill. Mr. Bauken, your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0057par0065	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This week, we're going to do a General Assembly study where we're going to discuss major international contracts. However, the basic discussions that Turkey needs now, unfortunately, will not be on the agenda of this Assembly with a conscious effort by the AKP, and I especially want to emphasize that from here. On July 15th, it was as if there was no coup attempt, as if there had never been a swift attempt to democratize, as if there had been no agenda for the civil peace of this country's 79 million people -- we are saying that underlying -- it was to purposely disable this parliament, to disable it. The dysfunction of parliament is the kind of artificial agenda that allows Parliament to work overtime. A state of emergency has already been declared, and this country has already begun to be ruled under the rule of law, and even the slightest concern or concern for the adoption of the ordinances to the Parliament or the ruling party or the president is not present. However, we, the People's Democratic Party, of course, have to discuss the fundamental issues of Turkey here, as we talk about international agreements that do not touch meat and milk. Look, I'd like to ask the ruling party a question all of Turkey's public and the people of Turkey now ask: We have agreed to establish a joint coup commission in this parliament after the July 15 coup attempt. As the People's Democratic Party, we have stressed how important it is for Turkey's democratic future as the first proposed political party, for this coup commission to speed up and start working on the equal number of members. You rejected our offer. Normally, under the Civil Code, you've imposed a commission on this Parliament, however the commission is being established regarding the problems in any area. Well, the General Assembly has made a decision on the creation of that commission. Now, it's been almost a month since July 15th, but the coup commission is still missing, and there's still no commission. We're asking, all opposition parties have reported members who will be working on the commission to get this commission to work as soon as possible, but the AKP, AKP Group, still, did not make the membership notification to delay, delay, divert, spread time and perhaps prevent it. What in God's name are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? If this Parliament still hasn't created a coup attempt, a commission that would reveal even the attempts to massacre the people, after a month's absence, what could this people expect from this House? This is exactly what we mean when we say that Parliament is defunctioning Parliament. We know what your concerns are. You're afraid that the people who bombed this House, how they were raised in the middle of a public street massacre, how they were brought to this day, because you haven't considered a process of confrontation, that the Commission might be able to do a study on such processes. Those who say, "What did you want?" or those who say, "What did you want?" or the metropolitan cities, or the major cities, or Ankara, or Ankara, or the people who bombed İstanbul, must not have been uncomfortable with caviar during the bombing of Surû, Cizre, Nusaybini. Those who say, "Don't be offended by the formation of this coup commission." Look, we still haven't answered any of the questions we've asked about the political foot of this coup since day one. If this coup had succeeded, how would the political foot be shaped? We ask the question, thousands of people have been detained, arrested, subjected to investigation processes, but so far, a government official has not made a single statement about the political foot of this coup, but has not made a single statement. If this coup had succeeded, who would be the President of this coup, who would be the Prime Minister, who would be the Council of Ministers? We all deserve to know these questions as people of Turkey, and it is your responsibility as a ruling party, and it is your duty to answer them, but as I said, as you have not answered these questions so far, you continue to delay the process required by a coup commission created by Parliament to work quickly. There's nothing acceptable about it. By making this parliament more functional, by running the Assembly with the agenda of more people, we believe that Turkey's main issues will be handled more with a number of legal regulations in this Parliament, but we think that there will be an exit from the coup process. I also stated at the opening of the General Assembly, a rally was held in Yenikapi, a political party that received 6 million votes was ignored at the rally in Yenikapi. So even if that invitation had come to us, we wouldn't have been a part of that picture until certain confrontational processes, certain attitudes about democratization, were revealed. However, you have ignored a political party that represents the will of 6 million people in particular, sending messages that there is no room for all the other parts of this society, including the Kurds and Alevis, in the process of rebuilding and reorganisation of the state. Once again, you have updated the spirit of denial, destruction, and assimilation of the Constitution of 1924. Although we disagreed, we followed with great care. We have carefully followed all 79 million messages based on social peace, based on democratisation, which will cover the entire Parliament. Unfortunately, in that rally we were following, we had to see ourselves again that we were still considered out there as the other one. Look, it's not the way, it's not the way, it's not the way. We've been warning you for over a year -- this council chair, this Parliament, is the witness to the transcripts -- we're warning you. We've repeatedly warned you that you will take this country to a coup mechanism, with approaches that bring it down, divide it, divide it, engage the concept of war, not based on the will of the people. But as you haven't considered the warnings we've made so far, with the opposite practices, which I repeat, by highlighting the most concrete example, by removing the immunity of lawmakers, by bringing untouchable armor to the juntaciers who did the coup, you've activated that coup mechanism. You've put coup mechanics to work in Turkey. Look, at our meetings at Imran, we discussed the coming of these events from two and a half to three years ago, and discussed them in detail. It's in official government records, official records. As lawmakers of the ruling party, each of you has access to those reports. Two and a half years ago, Mr. Ocalan made it clear at the meeting we had at the Imralı, how the impact mechanics would act if the solution process was completed and the negotiating table was toppled. The government committee wrote them down, too. The Prime Minister, the ministers and the President have been sent those reports, and we know it. Mr. Ocalan said that the history of politics in Turkey is a history of coups. Every decade, every five years, these continuous coups have interrupted democracy, along with the process of resolving it, with lasting peace, can be taken to the waste of history. However, if the solution process is completed, we are in danger of seeing a coup that will take place without interruption, not once every ten years, but once every five years. Now, even though it's known that the Dolmabahçe agreement has been rejected, the solution table is toppled, the concept of war is to be put in place again, and the fact that city centers have been destroyed without leaving a stone on the stone, there is the picture that we've come to. You asked the nation for peace and stability, you managed to get 49.5 per cent of the people in the war environment you created on November 1st, you were in power alone, the people gave you all kinds of authority. In this sense, we want you to finish all the areas of conflict with 49.5% of the vote, and we want a social peace. He gave the message, but look, the point you've brought the country to is that there is nothing at this moment, except chaos and instability. You voted for peace and stability, you gave chaos and instability to this country. You have no right. In the painting, which emerged with the new door rally, you, once again, divided this society in half, and the results of this are extremely severe developments. We're warning you from today, we want to do our duty of warning: stop this approach, stop this understanding. For 90 years, the faithless spirit of the 1924 Constitution has not shown the country, the people of this country, the people of this country. Come, let us put aside that blasphemous spirit of the 1924 Constitution and quickly bring the founding spirit of the Grand National Assembly into existence in 1920, together with the plural democratic spirit of the 1921 Constitution. One second is important, one minute is important. Is there any guarantee in this country that coup mechanics won't make moves again? Can any of you go out and say, "All problems are behind us now, once again, Turkey will not face this kind of misfortune?" Look, you didn't even bring the law you brought into the army to the agenda of the House. It's not a crime for a soldier to send a tank out into the street right now, to pile up cannons on the Bosphorus Bridge -- it's not a crime for you -- it's not a crime -- it's not a crime to air the plane. I've seen a risk to public safety, so I'm interfering with these civilian settlements, and I'm making all the security units there, especially the police, part of my own operational processes. When he says, "He didn't commit a crime." You made the law of this. Well, at least in this process, you're supposed to bring this law to a society that's been particularly traumatized, but where is it? On the contrary, as I said, you are bringing this country to the brink of great disaster by insisting on wrongs that shouldn't be done. The law, which is currently discussed in the Plan Budget Commission, is a total coup law. Today you can get a social approval by targeting HDP-based municipalities, but tomorrow you will turn to all opposition municipalities, especially CHP municipalities. On what grounds will you remove the mayor from office and appoint him as trustee? On what grounds will you subject the city council to a liquidation process that can't even meet? What difference can you make here of an understanding that the coupgers interfered with the Prime Minister and replaced him with a trustee appointment, or an understanding that bombed Parliament, and a purged city council? Look, it's all wrong apps. I'm the one who removed the mayor, the mayor, the city council, who received 70 percent of the votes, 80 per cent of the vote, and I'll put officers in there, and I'll rule as I please. If you go into understanding, you'll be doing the worst you can to this country. You can prepare a great tension and conflict with your own hands. Therefore, this error must be abandoned at once. In particular, we view this process as a major threat to the consumption of the legislation and the bag of laws in these matters, and we stress once again that it must be immediately abandoned, quickly under the basis of democracy, the state of law, social peace and human rights. The process of making the district of Şırnak and Hakkari (Hakkari) will be long evaluated by our friends from this bench. There are no people in Şırnak, you know. There's not a single person who lives in the center of Şırnak City right now with your destruction painting. All the neighborhoods are falling apart one by one. I don't know if you're looking at those social media photos, but you've destroyed all of Şırnak. Now, you're conducting a process of dehumanization of Hakkari. You didn't ask the people of Şırnak, you didn't ask the people of Hakkari, you didn't ask your agencies there, you didn't ask the NGOs there, you didn't ask the leaders of the polls, you didn't ask the political parties who voted there. How will you implement such an application? How do you intend to contribute to the social peace of this country when you bring it to life? It's obvious what we're offering. We say that in the Middle East you should change the basic policy in general. Your policies over Kurdish hostility have gone bankrupt, one goes bankrupt. Look, Münbic also went bankrupt. In the meantime, I would like to say that we salute all democratic Syrian forces from here that have liberated Münbic from violent, barbaric ISIS gangs and expressed our solidarity. Hopefully, the liberation of Münbic will contribute to the rapid resurgence of the democratic Syrian republic and to the rapid conclusion of a peace process in Syria. If you change Middle Eastern policy on the basis of resolution and peace, if you sit on the basis of an alliance with Kurds, when you have made the province of Dilevá and Cizre, you create centers to refer to the Middle East, especially border trade, you create attraction centers. You don't need to take Şırnak, Hakkari, or district status for that. In any case, all four counties will become very important regional centers if the possible Kurdish policy changes, but despite the fact that you have wronged the fundamental wrongs in foreign policy, you continue to persist despite your constant confrontation with those mistakes. Look, today President Erdogan is meeting with Putin. Just a few months ago, when you said unspeakable things about Putin, about Russia, we said that you were wrong, that you would humiliate this country the day after tomorrow without thinking about tourism, agriculture, security, Middle Eastern politics. So, when we went to Russia to make sure that this people didn't pay the price, you didn't give up our treason or the literature of digging this country's well. So, what happened? Where have you come? What stage have you reached? Look, yesterday they slaughtered the people together by supporting the cruel Assad regime for Putin. We can't possibly accept this. Erdogan and Davutoglu have numerous explanations here. Today, you say peace will come to Putin (Israel) and Syria. Why do you insist on such a conflicting, self-deprecating, humiliating policy? You must place the basic policy of the Middle East on the ancient peoples of the Middle East. If you try to shape Middle Eastern politics with global imperial powers, you will be in the position of a government that faces its own wrongs. As for Arabs, Turks, Kurds and Fars, who are the ancient peoples of the Middle East, and again Armenians, Assyrian Uzyanians, Nusayris, you must surely discuss a fundamental policy on ancient peoples and put them into the main orbit of foreign policy; I say that the technical international contracts that you will bring in here unless you do so will solve any problem, will bring up a number of arguments that we can view as a complete waste of time, but we will continue to express the fundamental issues of Turkey in order not to lose time. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0058par0088	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Congressmans, there are no other speakers on the whole bill. Now, we're going to do the question-answer process in 20 minutes. Ten minutes of the 20 minutes belong to the MPs, and the other ten to respond to the Minister. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who are entering the system in order. Mr. Bircan...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0059par0093	I'll talk about Edirne's problems. Unfortunately, the Keşan-Enez road, which has been used in the summer months by 300,000 people, has been a double all over the world, while it's been a road that's been run over for years, and hundreds of people die every year. And this year, her sunflower repulsion is very low. If the same work is done again, as in recent years, and the price policy -- unfortunately -- as in recent years -- is made, the farmer will be devastated and the farmer will be devastated. We used to have quarryes in the city of Mejidieh, where I made a motion to ask about these quarryes. In our area of tourism, the quarry is still in place...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0060par0098	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0061par0099	Yeah, I'd like to talk to you about something that's up to date. The Earth crop office is now victimizing the manufacturer with its purchase policies. Sivas Divrik, Kangal, and Songshare, the manufacturers are miserable. The land crop office doesn't buy in place; manufacturers travel 100km and sell their products to merchants. He buys appointments, he cuts a lot, and the corn producer in Adana is miserable. The land crop office buys corn from $725, but the merchant buys from $630. For these reasons, the merchant is preferred. In Thrace, the Earth crop office had already declared that it was wrong, and then announced the price and entered the market. I'm already warning him not to make the same mistake on the tripod, not to screw up the tic maker. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0062par0102	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0063par0103	Mr. President, the motion that I have just submitted to you in accordance with Article 37 of our Civil Code has been rejected by the votes of the AKP. The government has once again shown that it does not accept the demands of our chiefs. When will the surrender of the offices and buildings of our village chiefs, whose powers have been reduced after the change of the Metropolitan Law? You keep inviting our Mukhtars to the palace, feasting on them, but why don't you give them their rights, pay for their daily expenses? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0062par0105	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0064par0106	There's some information in the press on the 19th of this month that the House will be on vacation. As we all know, the decrees under the law must come to our House within 30 days, and it must be approved. Is the date calculated according to the decree of the first rule of law that began on July 20th? What's the point of trying to smuggle these decrees out of a parliamentary audit? I'd like to remind you that it's illegal. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0062par0108	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0065par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. At the end of the week, I attended the Stimapınar Festivals in Felahiye district of Kayseri. Our people there are asking when will be the road to Göğdere in Felahiye district, which they were promised fifteen years ago. A citizen named Ali Özbay says he is a man of the militia until the election, and forgets the nation after the election. They specifically asked me to pass this on to you. Again, he says that the county has been constantly migrating, and they want the university to prevent this migration, and we're going to start up in the country. They say that you've taken the courts and post offices from their hands. They want their post office and their courthouses back again. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0066par0113	Dear Purchu...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0067par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Smyrna's problems do not end in counting. There is no decent investment in the government's investment in Izmir. Only tunnels and roads are being made. Other than that, let's build a docking area for the big ships to come in. We said, "Let Turkish Airlines fly directly abroad." We said, "It didn't fly; there are many studies related to Izmir. Nothing about tourism has been done." Other than that, the factory didn't open properly during this administration period. The unemployment is at an extreme stage, they say 10-11%, all with a story, about 35% unemployment by 30 per cent. Unfortunately, our young people suffer from unemployment, college graduates can't get jobs. In this area, the government needs to work, immediately and immediately support agriculture, support tourism. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0068par0118	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0069par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. I asked the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs two clear questions: Is there any study to be brought to Niğde, Bor and Ulukish as drinking water? I said, "Is there any project work to be brought to Niğde province as watering water?" In response: The Ecemis Resources Su Temini Prereport Report from the Konia Closed Basin Master Plan Job and the provinces of Aksaray and Niğde, the drinking water needs of the province of Konya Emirgazi up to 2050. With the study, water will be given to the city centre of Niğde, Kemerhisar, Altunhisar and Bor districts, Konya Province, Emirgazi district, Aksaray city centre and Taşpınar district, and the unit water costs 1.76 cubic metres/lira. There is no study of irrigation water in Su Temini Pres report from Ecemi sources. In addition, it is being studied as part of the Koonian Closed Basin Master Plan, which continues its work to provide drinking water for Niğde Province from Şekpınarı to Niğde Province.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0070par0124	Mr. Bektaşoglu... No. Mr. Peksen...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0071par0126	Mr. President, there are various measures the state has taken at the time of Turkey's economic crisis. The most important thing is the debt configuration measures. Turkey is currently going through an extremely difficult economic process, with a very serious debt burden on the back of the sector, very heavy economic conditions in the market, but no legal measures for debt configuration have been taken. It's a fact that a large number of companies have been dragged into an extraordinarily heavy process, like delaying bankruptcy. I warn the government from here that it is of great importance to prepare a legal procedure for debt configuration and to submit this procedure from Parliament. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0070par0128	Mr. Hero...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0072par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Because of the seized goods after the coup attempt, those who have to collect can't get what they can get, and those in debt are having trouble paying off their debt. I'd like to give you a very small example: a company that owes money to a hospital in Gaziantep wants to pay it, can't pay it, blocks it, doesn't know who gets it; checks sold to third or fourth individuals. These are, of course, the company that can't pay off its cheques, it's in a state of distress. An emergency precaution has been taken... at least, whether he pays for it or not, people have become criminals. There must be an urgent solution. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0073par0132	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0074par0133	Minister, in the Batman province, Kaletepe of Kozluk, Kaletepe of Cevezli, Kalevlı of the villages of Kavlı, were also disbanded. So, no matter what the reason for the power distribution, three village transformers have been ripped off and they can't draw water from their drinking wells because there's no electricity at the moment. I don't understand what authority the power distribution company has removed a village's transformer in the heat this summer, in a heat of 35-40 degrees. This needs to be fixed very quickly, preventing the victims of those peasants. Of course, not only do our citizens use these water sources there, there are animals, there are lands they look at, there are crops they sow, there are times we need water most. I think it needs to be fixed immediately. With all due respect, it's the right thing to do.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0075par0136	Thank you. Congressmans, the questions are over. Mr. Secretary, the rest of the time is yours. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0076par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, first of all, thank you. We thank our parliament, our Parliament, our nation, who have opened the House on the evening of July 15th, and who, along with our nation, have resisted the coup. Our nation showed the world what was truly civil resistance that day, how it was supposed to be, to all friends and enemies. By shielding their chests against the bullets, they showed their lives at the point when they claimed the will of this nation. Of course, there our nation never fired a gun, nor fired a bullet, but was found just by his faith, shielding his chest. And our MPs have contributed to it by opening the House, thanking themselves. So at this point, we're going to put forth all the effort and work that we can at the point where we're going to serve people, and we're going to put it together. For him, we will all work together at the point of serving the nation by making our Parliament and our government work harder. Especially after July 15th, the unity and unity of our political parties, our presidents, were truly appreciated by our nation. Especially on August 7th, the participation of our political party leaders at the Democracy and Martyrs' Rally, the participation of our people from all sides, and the ownership of democracy by performing a national stance there, the preservation of martyrs, are above all recognition. And at this point, all of our deputies were in the field, they were in those areas with our nation, they contributed. And we can see that people appreciate that. Dear friends, as for the questions after this entry, Mr. Kazim, our Denizli MP, has just expressed his opinion and his question about the muhtars in particular. We thank him. And since we've been in power as the AK PARTI, we've made constant efforts to improve the rights of the muhtars and improve their salaries, and we've established work. At the point of their service, in order to serve in better buildings, both the AK PARTY municipalities and CHP municipalities and other municipalities have worked at the point of beautifying the service areas of our chiefs. In addition, at the point of providing computer services in accordance with the age, our government and municipalities have made serious contributions at the point of their access to the Internet, and as of today's coming point, we have raised the salary of our clients by bringing them to a minimum salary of 1,350 lira. Everybody's got something to do with it. It's been approved in our House. Hopefully, if the budget can afford it, we'll all be contributing together to re-organising both our chiefs' wages and their rights within the coming term. There was another question about the debt construction. Especially from time to time, as you know, debt configurations have been made by EC PARTY governments. Just recently, we've been building a debt to a tradesman. There was 400 million euros of construction there. He'll come to our council for our farmers too, I hope. We have configurations for this, we have debt configuration. Again, recently legalized configurations by our Finance Ministry for certain penalties and tax debts. We've created these configurations, and we'll continue to process them. In general, especially at the point of removing obstacles from our industry, our government demonstrates its best efforts; serious progress has been made recently at the point of reducing bureaucracy. We're implementing these configurations in the strategy of our tradesman, farmer, businessman, industrialist, economically dealing with the state, shaking hands with them, making peace with them, reducing cases as much as possible. It's not enough to reduce or consolidate cases with the state, especially, as you know, we have to express that we have important work to improve Turkey's investment climate, support the real investor, and bring the foreign investor to Turkey. At one point, we have a number of initiatives to keep the investigations careful and limited, to contribute to the market's positive progress, so that an office or investor can be at least affected by this coup attempt again. Again, our friends, especially outside our Ministry, have had some questions that concern other ministries. And you'll appreciate that, and we'll forward it to those ministries, and hopefully we'll get the answers to you in writing from there. Dear friends, of course, as far as our country is concerned, we have important projects, especially in customs, at the point of organizing domestic trade, which I'd like to share with you some of. An important arrangement at the requisite point of moving goods, which I hope will come before you within the next week. As Mr. Kazim has just expressed, an important support for our business, our small businesses, our SMEs. It's a bill of law that allows the tradesman or small businesses who apply for loans to present other guarantees to banks besides real estate guarantees. Here, our farmers are able to pawn their crops, trees, or machines -- like a torque machine or other machines -- or the raw materials or materials in their stocks. Also, at the point where commercial projects are subject to loans, when you go to a bank, if you have a commercial project right now, because you can't show any other collateral, he can't support that commercial project, he can't give a bank or a loan. Now, along with the law that we're going to bring in, he can give credit to that commercial project and only to the project in a commercial sense. Again, banks will be able to give credit to brands or patented products, licensed products, by taking guarantees. Our goal here is to make it completely easy for our small businesses, our businesses that are struggling to access the loan. And when I do, how do I get money from those businesses besides my production? How can I finance this? We've prepared this bill to make sure that they don't think about it. I hope that by upholding this law, our friends, our lawmakers at all parties, we can pass and pass this law together that will make it especially easier for our tradesman and our small farmer to access finance. Dear friends, you know the other point is that after July 15th, a member of this terrorist organization, a member of the Fethullahist terrorist organization who wanted to flee abroad, at the point of preventing people from leaving the country...
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0077par0154	Complete, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0076par0156	...has done his duty to our ministry, and has blocked about 89 members of this organization, who wanted to flee abroad using gates across borders, within that night or two or three days. And we've been working very carefully on it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0077par0158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PROTOCOLM TO BE CONTINUED BY THE SOLDIER'S ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY TO AGREE TO ACTUALLY AGREE TO ACTUALLY ACTIVITY ADADDE 1-1-1 (1) was approved on May 19, 2016 in Brussels. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on Article 1, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Tan. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0078par0168	Mr. President, members of parliament, today is a very important meeting between Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Russian President Putin. These talks and dialogues continue at this time. Dear friends, we all want Turkey to solve its problems with all the countries around it, including Russia, with all the organizations, with good relations. But when I say this, I would also like to say that Turkey has become such a ship that its sail has been torn off its course in the open seas, its sails have been torn off, its oars have fallen into the sea, and the waves have driven it here and there. It's impossible to accept it, to see it right, and to accept it as a sustainable position. I'll try to explain why it's not possible. Dear friends, you know, if we start with the Necmettin Erbakan era, the Prosperity Party in Turkey gradually came from 4.45 per cent in the 1984 local elections and became Turkey's first party in the 1995 elections and followed by a coalition government with the Right Path Party. I don't mean to make a long story out of the footworks that happened before, but Najmuddin Erbakan established the government as Prime Minister. After a very short period of time, a serious clamp was placed under the influence of the D8 meetings he wanted to hold, and as you know -- again, to be able to use this ten minutes in the most efficient way -- came February 28th. The main reason why Najmudtin Erbakan was compressed at that time and was taken away from power by deception, by the hand of algebra, or banned was not because he prayed or prayed a little or a lot or his personal life. At that time, again, like today, the world's political forces, the environments were in a reckoning, and the relations that Erbakan established with the D8 put together with Germany, Iran and other countries that we today described as the Western Bloc, the European Union, the United States, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Israel. After that, you know, the party was shut down, a new process started, and then the Justice and Development Party was formed. In the early days, the Justice and Development Party received serious support from the United States, Britain, Israel, the world's Jewish Congress, global capital, all these powers. It's a secret, it doesn't exist. After that, Turkey set out to make very serious arrangements in the European Union process; until 2010, until 2011, this honeymoon continued, so to speak. During that time, the largest debated congregation took part in this consortium as a major partner. But when the Arab Spring began, in Tunisia, in Egypt, in Libya, one after the other, in Turkey's relations with the European Union, the United States, the United Kingdom, the first crackdowns, and then serious visual disturbances. That's the essence of a fight, dear friends. Of course, here, all of us, especially the Islamic media, have had enough of this disgrace, this disgrace. Enough is enough, by completely distorting the original course of the event that they didn't use until then, we have to stand up alone. In the Middle East, a leaf should not move without our knowledge, and we should be the only ones to determine. I wish that were the case. You know, they say, "Let some people who don't want to die." But in this new process, a project was never put into place with the United States, with the European Union, with the global capital. What about Syria? What kind of Islamic understanding? What will happen in Egypt? How will dialogue with secularists improve? For ethnic problems, what form of relationship will be developed in the Middle East, from Kurds to Berbers to Süryani, and perhaps as a very important substance, how will this economic order, as a matter as important as these, be structured? How will Britain, which has been in the Gulf for a hundred years, leave the U.S. - First England, then the U.S. - Kuwait, Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Saudi Arabia in one day? As an entire African colony, how will the British, the French, the Portuguese, the Spaniards get their luggage in one day from Sierra Leone, Gambia, Senegal, to Somalia? There was no project, no preparation, no infrastructure, no staff, I'm afraid. How is the tailor going to solve a Kurdish problem in front of his door like he can't sew himself up, like the barber can't shave himself? What position will Syria take on Kurds? How will the Kurds be a place in the new Syria? What policy will Turkey follow here, guarantee that the Syrian Kurds, the Baas Party, or Iran, will be left in the hands of Russia, and join the Syrian Kurds in the national opposition? None of this has been properly thought out and done. Myself and a lot of friends have said this many times in the past five years -- from that day to that day -- from this stand, there are many of them in the books. We have repeatedly discussed on these platforms that this policy will land, that it will not go anywhere, that a new policy is essential, that Turkey must revive its historical ties with Islamic countries, with peoples in the Middle East, but that it must be a national policy, that it must be discussed here, and that a macrosiasm should be determined, but none of this has been taken seriously. And at the point where we're here today, six months ago, we're having another honeymoon with Russia, which we had a fight with almost eight months ago, which is almost on the brink of war, and this time, we're going back, we're challenging the European Union, the United States, the United States, the UK, all of the West, and we can build a new balance of Eurasia with Russia, Iran, China. I wish it were that simple and simple. If you recall, General Tuncer, the Secretary General of the National Security Council, had repeated these sentences ten to twelve years ago, thirteen years ago, but after repeating them, we saw 68 generals arrested in Turkey who had been called "Kemalist, Ataturcist" in the investigations of Ergenekon and Balyoz. Believe me, fellas, this much blood pressure is gonna knock down a buffalo, a cam, an elephant. This country can't take that much blood pressure. What we need to do today is to run away, not run away, but come and argue here; what will Turkey's strategy of twenty-five years, fifty years, hundred years, with Middle East, Africa, with Islam, with Russia, with Iran, with the European Union, how close are we going to be with whom we're going to be, and how far we're going to get from who, and how far we're going to solve the Kurdish issue in and out front of our door? If we can't do that, believe me, three months from now, maybe we'll be in India, maybe in China. My respects.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0079par0179	Thank you, Mr. Tan. Second speaker on behalf of the groups, Eskişehir MP Gaye Beseler on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0080par0184	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Once again, I condemn the attempted bloody coup on July 15th and ask God's mercy on our martyrs of democracy. Yeah, July 15th was a coup attempt. On July 16th, we all gathered under the Supreme Assembly, and all political parties spoke for democracy, for our common values. It was our faith in this country that united us all, our faith in the values of this country, and our faith in democracy, but a week later, under the roof of the High Assembly, we saw the sign that an extraordinary state in 81 provinces would be put on the shelf right after parliamentary democracy. Dear lawmakers, it's not a democracy to go out on the streets, to gather in the evenings, to say "Democracy rally in the Meydans." Democracy is a business of faith. Democracy is not just about the chest, democracy is about respect for human rights, democracy is about freedom, democracy is about equality. When the country is in the State of Emergency, when the State of Emergency is declared in the country, I look at this state of the Assembly today and I watch with sadness. This state of the country, the country's State of Emergency, I see that the High Assembly has no interest in lawmakers who have been elected to the High Assembly. After the State of Emergency, we were worried that the witch hunt would begin. And we were worried that the age would not burn along with the rule. And at the point where we're here today, we see that everyone can burn, whether they're dry, whether they're burning, or the age is burning, and people are saying that there's no help, and the lines of the House are empty. Those who declare the State of Emergency, those who use the game for the State of Emergency, can't fill the ranks of the Assembly, I'm afraid. Today, the Turkish Armed Forces, military students, are in all phases of the trial and the education has been captured. Teachers, students, professors, all in fear. What will happen if I too burn? And you're saying, "They've infiltrated everywhere." But I say, "Where were you when you were leaking everywhere?" Who leaked it? Who let him slip? Last week we're looking at the academics for Peace group, who signed the declaration "We will not be a party to this crime." Do you know that 21 academics were suspended on Friday at Anadolu University in Eskişehir? Or did it hurt you if you knew? I'm hurt. When you say we're going to fight the terrorist organization today, what do you want from the academics who signed the peace declaration when you say we're going to lay off the people in the terrorist organization? Have these academics been investigated? Yeah, it's open. Do legal processes continue for these academics? Yeah, it's going on. So, members of lawmakers, why do you have your hands on academics who sign the peace declaration while professors with ties to the terrorist organization continue to live in universities? Is this taking advantage of an opportunity, this is the witch hunt, I'm asking you? See, the background of the foundation universities in Turkey: The first foundation started as Bilkent University in 1984, followed by Coach University, followed by the University of Sabanci. See, important figures: Between 1990 and 2000 we see 19 new foundation universities opening in Turkey. Now, between 2000-2011. So when we look at the period when the Justice and Development Party is in the government, we see 43 new foundation universities opening up. Today, in 193 universities, the Republic of Turkey, 76° of these universities are the foundation university. Dear lawmakers, with these universities, foundation universities, with the proposal of the Higher Education Board, with the law, and with the 15 foundation universities that you closed today because of the connection with the Fethullah Gülen terrorist organization, you opened them together, arm in arm -- their videos are standing, their videos are standing -- we know who are arm in arm, how they are, how they are, how they're opening those schools in happiness. Well, you closed these schools. Of course, if he's connected to the terrorist organization, you did well to close it, but who will be left with the plague of the faculty of these schools, the administrative staff of these schools, and 65,000 students studying in these schools? Again, you said that after we shut down the schools under Code 667, we're not going to victimize the students. There's a garantor university owned by every foundation university, and you said: "We're going to put these students in garantor universities, and we're going to give both of these students diplomas to graduate students together." Then what did you do? You've given up. I don't know why you gave up. You gave up, and this time you said: "We're not going to send the students where they're going to get their scores, but where they're going to get their points, regardless of the year they took the university exam. We get a lot of e-mails, we get a lot of abusive messages on social media, we get a lot of calls. But I know that more of the people who came to us came to you because this crime, this plague, is yours and yours alone. The parents of 65,000 students are on the phone. Where will my child study? Another mother weeps, saying: "My daughter is thinking of committing suicide. " How will you deal with the burden of these children? Already, the Justice and Development Party stands at exactly zero point with the State of Emergency. I don't think you know what to do either. However, we, the opposition party, as the main opposition party, stand at exactly the point where we need to form the solution together, rather than chanting at rallies. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, valued political party representatives, I say to all of you from here: The high council is the place to solve the problem of these 65,000 students. The problems of these students can never and never be solved with the provisions of the State of Emergency, with three people, four people. I've got two suggestions for you: the first one is that these students are placed in garantor universities. However, we don't know what kind of obstacle you've come across at this point politically, but if you can't do that, then let's turn the universities you've confiscated into public universities and let the children study in these schools. As I finish my words, I'd like to repeat a sentence of the late Erdal Inönul, in case you'll remember: the democracy is the water test of secularism. When the water testicle is broken, no force can hold this society together. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0081par0205	Thank you, Mr. Niceer. Mr Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 1. Your ten minutes, too, Mr. Günal. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0082par0210	Dear members of the Veteran Assembly, I salute you and the great Turkish nation. We're discussing an international agreement about NATO, but we have issues related to the NATO Convention, issues related to the fight against terrorism. First of all, Osman Bey is looking there -- we were together in our contacts in London last week -- and NATO, as he called it, begins at the border of Syria. Turkey's border and the border of NATO have been identified, and in NATO's new strategic concept, the most important issue is international terrorism and fighting it. These issues are considered the main topic in the declarations following the meeting of the ministers, at all meetings, and at the meeting of the OSCEPA, which we attended earlier. However, we do not see that the wishes and desires are fully fulfilled or that which is written in the declarations of the end. In our contacts -- we've talked to our friends in other countries -- we've talked about the contacts we've made after the coup attempt, but it's not today's question, it's not just about the coup attempt. Unfortunately, the most important members of the United States of America, Germany, France, are a little more bipolar about these issues. Of course, today, beyond this coup attempt on the terrorist organization and recent developments, we see Western soldiers who, unfortunately we can't see these supports in the fight against the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) as we can't see, spoil the other side, protect them, even go out there and fight in their clothing. I'd like to warn you that these contracts need to be respected immediately. In this regard, of course, we were on the London delegation with our friends on the coup attempt, and we had the talks -- unfortunately, the view of the West continues to exist. And we, as all lawmakers, as lawmakers of opposition parties, have told them about the developments here and discussed them. We, as the MHP -- from the beginning of the news -- Mr. President watched closely at the party headquarters -- immediately stated that we were against it, and then, after the call of our Speaker, we lived here with some of our fellow deputies from the Republican People's Party and friends from the Justice and Development Party. We've told you about these developments. Our position as MHP is principled; we say we oppose any attack against democracy. We've always told you that we are a party that sees nationalism and democracy as twin brothers. And in this context, I would like to say again that nationalism is the most important element in democracy, which means the will of the militia, which means the self-management of the militia. In this scope, we need to be more careful about the institutional identity of the Turkish Armed Forces, which is both important for the fight against terrorism and is the most worn-out institution for the coup attempt. Yesterday, when we were chatting with the press, they asked about it in the program. For me, the most important element of the Yenikapi spirit for us was a message that was shown to our Armed Forces by Mr. Chief of Staff, but shown to the Turkish Armed Forces as an institution, which was really important to both inside and out, trust the friend, and fear the enemy. So we said from the start that institutions shouldn't be worn down, that they shouldn't be responsible for the institutions here. Of course, in some measures, the closure of institutions may seem like a solution, but we think that they should be handled again, during the meeting of the KHKs in Parliament, and that structural arrangements should be done more realisticly, because right now, even if they are focused on fighting the terrorist organization, there is still a struggle with the Kurdistan Workers, the terrorists' supporters, the minions of the terrorist, are still threatening us, but there are still some things in the media today. For him, that struggle must continue with determination. Until we reach our cities in the Black Sea, terrorism continues. We need to get out of this state of emergency and normalize, get the institutions back online. And in order to do that, we need to get rid of these things and run this process again as soon as possible. We need to keep the Turkish Armed Forces up. From now on, we must remove the dams and barriers and pave the way for the fight of the Turkish Armed Forces. In that respect, as head of our Turkish Armed Forces, I care for the gratitude our entire nation has shown to the Chief of Staff there. Our army, as we call it, should not be worn down, and not be put in the same place as the few terrorists, the ignorant separatist, who our mothers sent to condemn. We need to be sensitive about this, dear friends. We need to consider these sensibilities in this kind of work. We're not supposed to mix age with drier just because there's something extraordinary about other matters, not just the military. We've told them well-meaning, we've told them abroad, we've been seeing friends here, but there's been a lot of complaints, and it seems to us that innocent people are going too. There should be a little more careful work in these matters, because age can really burn between the dry. And we need to empathize. Some executives, especially Mr. President, say: "We apologize to God, we apologize to our nation, we don't see them." I say to you in that same logic: we must separate our blind, deluded citizens from those who are in it, who are in organizational activity, who are financing it. In any case, she sent her child to school or sent him to her home, which was when you encouraged her to go, which means we have friends who go there, and now we shouldn't blame them. I mean, we really need to refocus our goals on the 2023 vision that we're starting to fall away by bringing them into that criminal, separatist activity, involved in the coup attempt, to judge them already, but not with a totalist approach, and we need to be able to get them to normalize as soon as possible. We need to get the structural measures done quickly, economic, social, political. There's been a coup attempt, but these issues continue to be sensitive. Although we've created a bag of laws, and you may not know it now -- we're still seeing friends on the committee, we've got another one coming; we're doing things to relieve and divert our citizens, but we need to take structural measures to solve the problem permanently. It's one thing to treat the wound, temporarily patch it up, but with surgery, you have to get it back to normal. That's why we need to take these precautions as soon as possible. As the National Movement Party, we always have a constructive, guiding, compromise policy, a sense that says, "First, my country and my nation, then my party." And we stand by these issues, if what is right for our country is right for him in the first place, is to fight terrorism. Our reservations about social, political issues are separate. If there's a coup attempt, an attempt against democracy, we're against it, and as a Turkish nation, we're against it, we're against it. Hopefully, we'll have to get through all of this, but we'll have to live with all of the elements, the power, the opposition, the media, the civil society organizations, the private sector as we go through all of this in Yenikapi. In this case, I'd like to stop talking about a few sentences that Mr. President mentioned during his speech in Yenikapi. As noted on that day, our moment is one, our memory is one, our horse is one, we all have to work on it together, or else we're facing extinction, there's a lot of Turkish people. The only way to understand this, the only way to prevent it, is to reconnect these wounds with its power, its opposition, and all of its NGOs, with its media, and lock on to their next 2023 targets. What do we have to do to do that? In the words of our president-in-chief, if we are to be missed, if we turn our backs and go out into the sea of revelation together, no one can defeat us, no one can subjugate us. Then all those who try to sabotage a thousand-year-old brotherhood, we'll lose their ambitions, and together we'll continue to become superpowers in the leading country of 2023, 2053, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0083par0223	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu on Article 1. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0084par0228	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on behalf of the esteemed Turkish people who are watching us in front of their televisions, the Bill of Law, which is 407 rows -- international agreement. I salute the High Council. Yes, it's about international agreements, but there's a July 15 coup attempt on the agenda. Yes, we survived a great disaster, and we survived being thrown around by the Veteran Assembly, and after many years, we made a great deal of reconciliation with his opposition. This wasn't there before July 15th. We were talking about very concrete truths here, like there were a couple of subjects that I'd given a research proposal to, and I even offered you a very concrete income, which you didn't even accept. I had a suggestion about how we could make money out of waste fats, how we could contribute to the economy, and you didn't even accept it, even though you said it was beautiful. The continuing agreement is in the interests of the Republic of Turkey. The democratic parliamentary system, we have to strengthen the regime; that's what we, the Republican People's Party, always say. Why are we saying this? Because there's strength in unity. We may not all think the same, but here our common denominator is the Republic of Turkey. Well, does the outside world believe we have a coup? We're giving them all these images, and we're going to keep giving them more, but our reputation outside is still not good because they're looking at the past, looking at what's been done in the past. In the past, Turkey was a prestigious country in this geography, a mediator country, a country that ended that war in the Iran-Iraq war. Libya has a crisis in Libya; Turkey is a mediator; NATO is an important issue; Turkey is a mediator. But then we became a country that interfered with the internal affairs of Syria, a country that had a crisis with Russia, and the European Union didn't even consider us. Look, we can only tell you about the blow against the outside world if we're strong, if we're together, because we've been there, and we knew we'd live. How did we know? Because the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk told us that we must be strong. Besides, we have to be strong in this geography. What did the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk say in Nutuk (Nutuk): O Turkish youth! Your first task... begins with the genius and the external curses... so you have to be strong, you have to know the history very well. So, because this geography is a really strategic geography, the outer altars that didn't wash us from the outside have been in there voting for 35 or 40 years. We're scared, there's been support, not infiltration, but maybe a deployment operation. Everyone said they were going to do the Great Middle East Project, all international strategists, and they said, "Yeah, we're going to take 22 countries out of this geography." Shouldn't we be prepared for this? Shouldn't we be knowledgeable? Shouldn't we organize our education system accordingly. Shouldn't we train our children against danger? Shouldn't we have our universities, our scientists study accordingly? It's always been said that we have to love each other, we have to believe in the rule of law, if we're educated and knowledgeable... only if we embrace our own allies. We're gonna have to put the Liyakat on the map. This is from my union, this thinks like me. This is not a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, everyone is an equal citizen. This way we can raise Turkey to the level of modern civilization. In public appointments, unfortunately, you have always placed your followers in my union. You said, "Let him think as I do." In fact, you almost wanted people like you at the Canary Love Society. You didn't consider the Liyakat; despite people's hard work, their hard work, they failed the exams, and unfortunately, they couldn't find a authority to seek their rights. That's why we say enough is enough. I say we all continue this compromise together, loving each other, putting up with each other's wrongs, even if they're wrong. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0085par0236	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. Talks on article 1 have been completed. There's no question-answering process. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on Article 2 Mr. Kadir Yıldırım. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Lightning. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0086par0246	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. So I want to talk about today's parallel Kurdish language projects against AK PARTI's Kurdish language projects and an example of a plot against me at Mardin Artuklu University in this context. These projects from 2008 to today, unfortunately, were not carried out according to the Kurds' expectations. So, instead of distracting the Kurds in this context, I think they need to come up with permanent solutions for their language. AK PARTY opened TRT Şesh (TRT) on 26 January 2008 with a test broadcast. On that channel myself, I ran a two-year program called "Ziman û Wêje" - Language and Literature. Against this project of the EC PARTY in 2008, the EC launched the parallel World TV project two years later. It started broadcasting on June 4, 2010. I was marked and thrown aside at the time because I didn't think it was appropriate for me to participate in their program, so I signed up. The EC PARTY launched the Kurdish elective project in 2011. Two years later, he took action to bring the education project into action in the native language. While the AK PARTI started this project with the University of Mardin Artuklu, my team and I began to prepare the textbooks for that elective Kurdish course, and we prepared these two textbooks that were printed by the Ministry of National Education. What you see in my hand right now is a textbook from the Zazaqi dialect of the 5th grade, or middle 1. What you see here in my hand is a textbook prepared in Kurmançian dialect for the 7th grade, the middle 3th grade. Yes, in parallel with this project, two years later, Fethullah Gulen told the newspaper "Rudaw" in Erbil, published in Kurdish on June 24, 2013, in their view of education in the Kurdish language, saying that education for Kurds should be adopted in the main language principle plan. Education in the native language is a requirement for states to be fair to their citizens. After accepting this, practical problems must also be dealt with. It's not a blessing, it's the rights of the Lord God to us all as human beings, the freedoms. Without recognising this equality, there will be no justice, there will be no law. Another article is that AK PARTI. In certain universities -- which Mardin Artuklu University is the first of them -- in response to the opening of Kurdish language chapters -- has opened the University of Salahaddin Eyubi in Diyarbakır, and has opened around 20,000 schools in Iraq Kurdistan, where there are about 13,000 students who are educated in these schools today. While Turkish authorities have offered the Iraqi Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) regional government officials to close these schools, their response is: You encouraged them to open these schools, and now you are forcing us to close them. Now, at the beginning of the universities where the Kurdish language departments were opened, I said that Artuklu University income and conspiracy were built there. My team and I received 50 cents or $50 from those students -- old and new -- while preparing these elective Kurdish courses for the Ministry of National Education -- as a book, and taking a master's degree in the program. Unfortunately, these donations have been brought back to us in such a way that as a tender, as a sock, it's been built into corruption, and when it's a small administrative issue, it's been a court of law, it's been a trial, and we're in a process where that conspiracy is still going on. And believe me, if it weren't for this coup, we wouldn't even dare say it was a setup, because the process is still going on, and there was no guarantee that tomorrow I wouldn't fall into the hands of the same prosecutors and judges again. At this point, of course, it was a process where the EC and the AK PARTY had not yet broken down. While we were taking students to this program, I was given lists of teachers as the head of this department and as the head of this program. One of the lists I was handed to me was 42 people. I've already been blacklisted in the presence of both my students and my fellow professors, and the plot I mentioned just now has been knitted as socks, and it's still being knitted. At the time, I was told: "Do you look at criminal records when you are taking students and hiring teachers in these departments?" Look, there was no way in any university that a director of an institute could ever, ever, ever ask for a criminal record by putting himself in the judge, prosecutor's office when they were getting a master's degree or a professor's degree, but he was asked to ask me to do it. And I said, "You've done things about Kurdish language that would cost so much, that if there's a good Kurdish-speaking employee, you should know that he has a criminal record; if you're looking for a Kurdish without a criminal record, he doesn't know Kurdish, he doesn't benefit from teaching in the Kurdish language department, he doesn't benefit from the master's or doctoral program." If you're looking for such a Kurd, go look for it yourself, find it and bring it in, hire it, hire it, raise it. Thus, it turns out that the project on Kurdish language did not hold up, and unfortunately, the project on Kurdish language did not hold up for the EC PARTY, because neither the AK PARTY nor the people who were to be taken into these Kurdish language departments did not have the luxury, reason, or need. Both sides, under the pressure they put on me, took this; ha, take this. And when I complained to the AK PARTY, I didn't get any answers, I didn't see any ownership. I came all the way to the council, and I couldn't find a cure for trouble, so I came up with my own problem, and for the first time I've ever talked about a conspiracy like this, because, as I said, there was no guarantee that if I ever mentioned it, I wouldn't fall back into the hands of those prosecutors and judges, and that I wouldn't be put to practice by making up some covert witnesses, there still wouldn't be any. So, instead of distracting Kurds at the language point, whether it's the AK PARTY or other parties, let's get together in the context of education in the native language... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... Let's look at this as a permanent problem and come up with a permanent solution. I give you all my regards in the hope that such a hope will come true.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0087par0257	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Another speaker on behalf of groups on Article 2? No. On behalf of the individuals, İstanbul MP Gülay Responsor. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0088par0263	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Our harmony, our rich language will reveal itself in the new Turkish letters. On August 9, 1928, we commemorate our commander-in-chief Mustafa Kemal. For those who died in the coup attempt in our country on July 15th, I ask God's mercy, patience for their relatives, and immediate healing for the wounded. Due to our country's geography and the unchanging conjunctural conditions, multinational forces and global forces in Turkey have always made various calculations, laid out detailed plans, but could not calculate anything: as on July 15th, they could not calculate the crazy Turks. One more salute from here to our nation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's join hands. Let's seize, let's die, let's raise, let's rise again, let's take our educational system that's collapsed, that's been wanted for years, that's been placed in various congregations, that's been dying during the counter-revolutionary process. Let us approach our young children with kindness and sincerity to bring our country to the level of troubled civilization. In order to ensure that the Turkish Armed Forces, the 2nd army in NATO, will not be dishonored, so far, in the chain of command, we will contribute to the coup of some of our soldiers on the street, as well as to the punishment of some of our citizens as the coupgers. In this process, the importance of the democratic, secular parliamentary system, the Ataturk republic has once again been understood. In spite of all our warnings over the years, the value of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, whose name you have erased from the stadiums, the streets, the streets, and his revolutions, has once again been made clear, and his heart pictures have embellished the new door. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Our understanding is clear, clear, unchanging: within the borders of Kuvaimillia, the country is whole, undivisable. We believe that all our citizens are equal in all colors. We want enlightenment to continue in the light of Ataturk, and we want our brotherhood to continue. As Nazim Hikmet, who has been using a lot of government members lately, says: "Let the hand doors be closed no more, Destroy the human being's worship. This invitation is ours. To live as one and free as a tree, And like a forest, like a brother, This longing is ours. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Fortunately, the republic you've been trying to destroy for years has very strong foundations, very powerful institutional structures. If you ask why, it is to prevent our citizen from receiving notice from the congregation. Government assignments should be based on integrity, not loyalty. All our citizens in Artvin, İstanbul, Antalya, Malatya, Diyarbakır, Kars have to be equal, equal; we must not separate our people as your man, my man. As Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, the Republic of Turkey cannot be a country of sheiks, dervishes, disciples. The truest, truest cult is a cult of civilization. We will take care of the Republic, secularism, democracy, parliamentary system. This sense of unity is not meant to be adorned, it has to continue with sincerity. Don't worry about our citizens who are concerned about the process, we're in. As Nazim said, to lose such hopes and to be thrown in the dark/ Remember, living under the same sky is a resistance. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0089par0282	Thank you, Mr. Backup. Talks on Article 2 have been completed. There is no question-answer process. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of groups on the third article, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Mahmut Toğrul is a member of Gaziantep. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0090par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I send my regards and regards to our fellow citizens who watch us on television. Dear MPs, there was a bloody coup attempt on July 15th, and then, a week later, you know, the state of emergency has been declared, and unfortunately, we're dealing with the gang. The number of dismissals in the public today has reached 70,000. Now, I'd like to take a moment to figure out how they've been placed in public and how these 70,000 people have been removed from the post on what grounds. Dear friends, as a commission from our party, we visited some union circles last week, asking for the reasons for the removal of their members. Why could some have taken me in their own way? I once had a stationery called NT, did I shop there, or did they buy from it? Some people say, "Well, did I put my bills to Bank Asia at some point, or did they get them from that?" So, in the case of a witch hunt, it's out of the way. Look, dear friends, the same fair goes on in colleges. What does the governor of Antalya say last week for 20 academics who were later admitted to be suspended by mistake at Mediterranean University? He says: "Sometimes we do things wrong, and the tears burn along with the dry, and we know it. In this turmoil, sometimes because of the name, sometimes because of the resemblance to the event, sometimes we get friends who have no interest in different applications, such as an account, a phone. How can they make their rights lawful and their rights lawful to whomever they want? In what capacity do you take them? You put it next to a gang that has struck, bombed the Assembly, destroyed the Kurdish provinces, and then you tell them to forgive us. Dear friends, if you don't do this in the law, if you don't do it fairly, if you don't do it on the basis of merit, tomorrow, it'll really turn into some work done in the past, and it'll turn into a situation in the TK case today. Our friends spent five years and ten years in prison, and those who caused them to rest today are in prison themselves. Our friends, unfortunately, are still on trial for those cases. When we take university professors in public -- even though we know how this gang got into colleges -- we don't want war in this country, we want peace, children don't die. Those who sign the declaration of Academics for Peace want to be put in this sack. Look, just now, Mr. Gaye Beceer mentioned the University of Anatolia here. Dear friends, not only from the University of Anatolia, but from the University of Anatolia, the University of Tunceli, the University of Van Hundred Years, Hakkari University, the Faculty of Gazi Communication, they have the same problem, they continue to live, and it appears that the games will continue the day after tomorrow. Now, do you think it really suits justice, law, justice, to be dismissed by putting people whose lives have been fighting against gangs in the same sack, the same gang they're fighting against? Dear friends, the public layoffs have now become so self-absorbed that reporting has taken its toll, has taken its toll, has taken its toll, has taken its toll, has even reached the level of slander. Look, today, I got an article from the Gaziantep all over the BEL-SEN branch. Gaziantep Metropolitan Municipality, TIM BEL-SEN is forcing members to retire or exile, they say, either do it your own way. They say the text came to the other MPs here -- or they say, "If you don't accept this, we'll put a parallel label on you, we'll take it out of that frame." See, again, it's information from Gaziantep TMITIS, which is shared by the press, dear friends. In the meantime, members of the TMTIS are trying to shift to an ally union. Meanwhile, it's become an organization based on what everyone sees as a boil, what they see as a rival. Dear friends, KESK, you all know that in this country, he's fighting for democracy, he's fighting for work, and KESK has been fighting for the organization of this parallel gang in public institutions all along. In public today, the number of people who have been laid off in this conspiracy has reached 319, and as I have just said, there are also those who have signed the CEC signatures -- the Academics for Peace peace declaration. In municipalities, in ministries, especially in the field of education, members of the education department are under great threat. Everyone threatens everyone, everyone blackmails everyone: ▪ If you resist, you will be branded parallelist. It's called. Now, why do people stop and try to produce me as to why the KESK members who were actually taken may have been taken when you looked at them? Why might they have taken me? He says that he has lived his life fighting parallels with them. Imagine that with what you're fighting, someone puts you in the same position. Dear friends, this is an unacceptable situation. Another thing is: I want to tell you how they really are organized in public from the University of Dicle, where I live in the state, where I work as a professor for twenty-two years. In 2008, when the rectory elections were held at Dicle University, he was now taken into custody and publicly announced that he was a candidate for the congregations. If you call, you'll see it in the press, and this chancellor was third, so he got 16 percent of the total college vote. After this president was elected, the President took third place and appointed him. Is there no responsibility for that now? And what did he do, dear friends? Each of the three vice presidents was in a congregation; it was clear that all the staff who had worked at the University of Dicle know from the bottom to the top. Besides, they set up a commission. The job, the job, the promotion was done by this commission. It's all clear. Today, one of the vice presidents who did it wanted to take advantage of the effective regret, and that's where it came from. Look, how was it taken? The name of his doctoral thesis, if he was going to be an assistant professor, was written under the most wanted conditions. The required condition was the doctoral title. It was never based on merit or anything. Now you're getting up, and you're saying, "Oh, where did they come from? Dear friends, the schools of Dicle University have been shared, and the faculty has been shared among the congregations. The medical school, the veterinary faculty, was given to the gang you now call the parallel gang, where teachers were quickly placed in many universities of Turkey, with their doctorates completed in two years, one year. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now turn around and at least bring remorse, but we're fighting them. I'm telling you, don't put anyone and those who fight with them, and don't hurt the public any more, don't force these people anymore. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0091par0311	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. There are no other speakers in the name of groups on Article 3. On behalf of him, Mr Mustafa Akadın, the MP of Antalya. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Aka morning. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0092par0317	Mr. President, very dear MPs, I, like the previous speakers, strongly condemn the attempted coup attempt on July 15 in the name of democracy, and bless the very precious martyrs we have lost in this attempt, and wish our veterans a healthy, long life. Dear lawmakers, the history of the world is full of various coup attempts. One of them is Turkish history. Two thousand and two hundred and twenty-five years ago, Mete Han, the founder of the Turkish Armed Forces, was also the founder of the Great Hun Empire, toppled his father, Teoman. In the history of the Ottomans, as far as I know, 14 kings have been struck down again. Unfortunately, the first one -- the first one you're thinking of naming the third bridge of Istanbul, which will soon be opened -- is the king of Yavuz Sultan Selim, who struck his father and became the king. For what it's worth, coups exist in the history of the Armed Forces and in the history of democracy, but the important thing is to prepare political environments that shouldn't happen. I find you, my fellow Justice and Development Party, extremely troubled. Years ago, we'll grow religious and vindictive generations. You said, "Here, religious and vindictive generations brought July 15th to Turkey." You said, "We are prosecutors of the prosecutor, Zechariah Öz. These brought July 15, 2016." Now you're saying: "If you want a healthy democracy to live in this country, we ask for forgiveness from my great Lord and nation." I don't know if our great Lord will forgive you, but believe me, in part, I'm willing to forgive you for the sake of the Republic of Turkey, but there is a condition, friends, that if you want a healthy democracy to live in this country, you really have to bring justice, freedom to this country, you really need to do what you need to do to do to keep people in peace. I'm looking at what's happened in the last month, and unfortunately, you don't seem to have learned anything from the July 15 coup. Many of my friends have spoken here and spoken of innocent people who were taken into custody in our various provinces. There are many examples in this, from Antalya, my own science: a friend of mine named Mahir Kaya, a friend of mine, also named Göksel Hanım, is in custody because they enrolled her children in Toros College. Toros Colleges said that since you're a student, I'll give you a discount. They're gone. Somehow, Bank opened an account in Asia and Toros College didn't even know it, so they put their money in that account. Now, is there any right and justice in keeping these people in custody, friends? There are numerous examples of this in Antalya. I've been hearing a lot about this from other provinces, and there's a lot of examples coming out of them. We're warning you about this as the Republican People's Party; grudges are not solved by hatred, friends are solved by peace, solved by democracy, cured by human rights and respect. My dear friends, I don't find your recent application of the Turkish Armed Forces to force the State of Emergency laws correct. The Turkish Armed Forces are one of our most important institutions in this geography. The coups discredit Turkish Armed Forces, and as they are now, they lead to consequences, as they did in the Balkan War. You can't manipulate the genes of the Armed Forces. What you're doing now is tampering with the genes of the Armed Forces, which are contrary to the Constitution. The chain of command between the armed forces remains intact. The Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces will not be attached to one office, the other commanders of the Armed Forces will not be attached to another. These are all practices which will be returned by the Constitutional Court after these State of Emergency laws have been lifted from the agenda. Abdulhamid, who had previously played with the genes of the Turkish Armed Forces in fear of the coup, and all the last Ottoman sultans before him, faced frustration and with the coup, disappeared, including Abdulhamid.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0093par0322	Bravo! Well done, well done!
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0092par0323	I'm warning you about this. I give you all my love, my respect.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit02spe0094par0326	Thank you, Mr. Akaydun. Talks on Article 3 have been completed. There is no question-answer process. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a two-minute period scheduled for a vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, it is a clear vote that the adoption of the Protocol relating to Karadak's Participation in the North Atlantic Treaty is appropriate: ▪ Used Number of Votes : 236 [[X]] Congressmans, the bill has been approved and legalized. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-09sit03spe0094par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus between Su Temini and the Government of Northern Cyprus in accordance with the Companies Act and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Government of Turkey for Peaceful Use of Nuclear Energy in the 3rd place, and with the European Commission Report on the Perpetual Laws and Foreign Affairs, in accordance with the Agreement for Co-operation between the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of China. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 208 rows. There's no talking on the whole bill. There's no question-answering process. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. PRODUCTION OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE INVESTIGATION WITH THE CONTINUATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE NUCLEAR INSTITIONS Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of China was approved for the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes signed in Beijing on April 9, 2012. No speeches on item 1 for groups. There's no question-answering process. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There is no talk on Article 2. There's no question-answering process. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There is no talk on the third article. There's no question-answering process. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled for a vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I'm announcing the clear vote of the Dair Law Bill, that the Government of Turkey and the Agreement for Co-operation between the Government of the People's Republic of China are eligible for the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. ▪ Number of votes used: 216 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with Foreign Affairs Commission Report No. 35, ranked fourth. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Foreign Affairs Commission Report 83, ranked fifth. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will not be found after this, it is Wednesday (August 10th 2016) that we will discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
