tbmm-2016-11-09sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 18th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you four minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 18th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement is from Zonguldak MP Özcan Uupınar, who asked for the appointment of 8 November Long Mehmet for Memorial and World Coal Day. Here you go, Mr. Nupınar.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0002par0014	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. A hundred and eighty-seven years ago, Zonguldak had found coal in Ereğli district. Since then, coal has been produced in our Zonguldak. When I was a kid, 60,000 workers worked. Now, with the private sector, around 12,000 workers are employed there. Zonguldak was in the province of 1924. The first city of Zonguldak is the city of Zonguldak, the province of Zonguldak, after the formation of the Republic. In fact, with coal, Zonguldak has been the city, the city. On this occasion, I would like to say that our 80-nation citizens are in Zonguldak. Zonguldakta -- a town of cozmopolitan -- is a sisterly city of Alevi, Sunni, Kurdish, Turkish, Çerkeki, Laz, Roman. This coal is produced and produced in Zonguldak, under difficult circumstances. Right now, our brothers are trying to extract coal from the ground's depth of 560 meters. Of course, in these difficult circumstances, sometimes they lose their lives. We have 5,000 mine martyrs, we have a mining martyr. I wish them all God's mercy. This coal is high-calorie stone coal, which has properties that are not found anywhere else in Turkey. It's coal that melts iron steel. There are around 1.3 billion tons of coal reserves in Zonguldak. Turkey also needs about 80 million tonnes of coal annually. Mr. President, our Minister, our Prime Minister, told us that certain quotas are being applied to imported coals so that local coal can be encouraged. Hopefully from now on, the local coal will be produced more and more. We have improved the working conditions in the time of our governments. Our miners work 37.5 hours a week, take two days off, retire at the age of 43, and their salary should not be below 2 minimum wage. Such arrangements have been made. Our ancestors were once employed in the mines at gunpoint. At that time, a miner's life span was 35, 40. They worked hard, God rest their soul. My grandfather, my father, my uncle, worked in the mines. We've lost a lot of our elders to mineral disease, too. Therefore, even though the working conditions today have been improved, it is still the hardest business in the world to mine. I'd like everyone to visit the mines at least once in their life. Again, because of this coal, iron mills were built in Zonguldak, in Karabuk, you know -- it was our town before -- in Eregli. The thermal power plants have been established in Zonguldak. Today Zonguldak is able to meet 7 per cent of energy production and consumption in Turkey. Of course, we're also sensitive to the environment. Now, our mining relatives have a request from us. You know, after there were mining accidents in Ermenek and Soma, there was a law order, the Occupational Security Act. However, in Zonguldak, relatives of fallen miners want to benefit from these rights. So, Ermenek and Soma are willing to take advantage of the Zonguldak fallen mining relatives, as well as the rights given to the relatives of the fallen miners in Ermenek and Soma. So we sent this to our minister, our Prime Minister, our former Prime Minister, and hopefully these arrangements will be made in the coming days. Our goal is to increase employment in Zonguldak, increase the production of coal, increase the institution's profit, eliminate the damage. In that regard, our Energy Minister made statements in the Plan and Budget Commission the day before yesterday. Studies are conducted on the Zonguldak scale. Very important arrangements have also been made for the Renaissance. Rödovans are private coal companies. We have about 1,500 employees there now, which had previously been in the 4,500. Hopefully, in the coming days, we will continue our struggle to increase the number again. Dear lawmakers, our government has invested about 8 quadrillion dollars in our Zonguldak. We have two cities, Kozlu and Kilimli. It was opened during our time at Zonguldak Airport. Filyos, a hundred years of project -- God willing -- has begun. We'll have about 15,000 young people working here very soon. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0003par0029	Thank you, Mr. Nupınar. The second word off the agenda belongs to Sinop MP Peace Black Sea, who wants to talk about the problems of Sinop and the muhtars. Here you are, Mr. Black Sea. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0004par0035	Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about the problems of Sinop and our chiefs. I salute the General Assembly. Congressmans, as we all know, the chief office has an important place in Turkey's administration history. Anyone who believes in democracy and defends it knows that the chiefs are representatives of the people and the pioneers of the participating democracy. Our Mukhtars' problems have grown like an avalanche in the last 14 years. First of all, our chiefs have serious financial difficulties and rights issues. Our Mukhtars have been unable to solve their own problems in villages and neighborhoods while they're developing solutions to the problems of the people. As a member of parliament who travels through every inch of Sinop. One by one, our villages, our neighborhoods, and often meets with our chiefs, I can tell you that you have not given our chiefs the proper value in your 14-year-old AKP power. So much so that even the chiefs who voted for you, working for you, are fed up with you. The state pays 25 per cent of the BUG-KUR premiums, and the mayor pays the rest out of his own pocket, no health insurance. We have leaders who can't take their wife and child to the hospital because they can't pay the BUG-KUR bonus. They can't pay the rent, electricity, water, phone and so on for the building he's serving. If the chief, officer, comes to the village, the cost of representation and hospitality is in our own pockets. It's not right to expect them to pay for it with a quarter's salary, many of them are in debt. We have chiefs who have served this state and its people for many years. We give them guns when they're in town, and after the job as chief is over, we want the money, the tax on this gun. He won't receive these fees and taxes from the chiefs whose mission is over. Let's sit down together, believe me, they're all waiting for it. We must be loyal to our mayors, after the election I'm done with you, take care of yourself. We shouldn't let our mayors face our citizens. We should promise road, water, sewers during the election and never stop by the village again after the election is over. Our Mukhtars are not members of the AKP. I won't be your officer. You won't let go of what you didn't do. Our Mukhtars serve under very difficult circumstances and make great sacrifices. Let's get together and solve the problems of our chiefs. There are 470 villages in Sinop. I often travel through our villages, listening to our chiefs, our people. Our Mukhtars love me, and I love our chiefs, believe me. Now you're honeying out 2023 targets, but we have villages with no proper roads, no water networks. We have 5,184 km of road networks in Sinop. Only 25 percent of this network is asphalt. Sinop is a paradise corner of Turkey. The Bakırlı, Avdullu, Kızılcakaya village roads to the caves of Ayancık district are hard to get a donkey on. One foot has been severed from our rough bridge, and almost a human being is ready to collapse. Does it have to be a loss of life to do that? You promise Karapınar, Taypek, Alasöku, Lala, Kozcuraz, and all our villages, but you do not keep your promise. We have villages without water networks. You're stalling the headman for a 200-meter pipe-resolved network, filing petitions after petition. In Ayancik, the city changes street names. No one asks the mayor for advice. We're getting water delivered to our chiefs for a truckload of supplies. Durhanan, Boyabat, Saraduzü, Türkeli, Dikmen, Gerze, Erfelek, Ayancik and our central chiefs are working hard. Listen a bit, listen a bit, what trouble they've got. Dear MPs, let's take care of our chiefs, let's not victimize them, they're our crown. I call upon our chiefs: Do not hold your peace in the face of the power that has victimised you, but take away what is rightfully yours. I'm your all-out supporter, Sinop MP Peace Black Sea, and I'm behind you to the end. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0005par0048	Thank you, Mr. Black Sea. The third unscheduled statement is from Adana MP Muharrem Varlı, who wants to talk about the problems of cotton manufacturers. Here you go, Mr Varli. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0006par0053	Mr. President, I've been promised the problems of the cotton manufacturers. On this occasion, I salute you all. Pamuk is one of the raw materials Turkey needs most and an industrial plant. In the textile industry, where cotton is made of fibres, the raw seed is used as raw material in the oil industry, the powder and the sap are used in the bait industry. It's such an important requirement for Turkey. Turkey has been able to meet its needs in the past 15 years, while cotton fields have declined day by day, and we can't afford half of what we need right now. Turkey imports cotton that will be 1 million tons of silk. That's about $2 billion a pound, that's $2 billion. Our $2 billion goes to the farmers of America, India, Greece, and we take it from our pockets and give it to them. He's always bragging about it here, either the ministers, the agriculture ministers or the government officials, that's how much we support the farmer, that's how much we support him... They make it sound like they're giving it away from their own pockets. However, despite the rise in the recent years they've given the farmer, despite the increase, the price of the cotton's premium has increased over the last year -- yet your support is $20 million. So where's $2 billion from $20 million? If we really increased the support to plant cotton for our farmer, if we increase the cotton fields -- if we increase these supports to Çukurova, the Aegean, and the Urban region, if we support the cotton fields, if we increase the cotton fields, Turkey could easily produce the 4 million tonnes of cotton that it needs, Turkey could easily produce the Turkish farmer very easily. So we don't put $2 billion in the pockets of farmers from other countries. It's such a big deal. My dear countrymen, the esteemed MPs, look, now Turkey needs 1.5 million tons of silk cotton, but we can only produce 600,000 tons of silk cotton. Why can't we make it? Because cotton isn't supported, it's lost its field day by day. Look, I'd like to give you a few examples: between 1995 and 2002, the cotton field in Turkey is 7 million 566 thousand. It's a very important number. When we compare it to today's cotton yield rates, which is an average of 500 kilograms of cotton, it's 3 billion 783 million kilograms, so Turkey's 4 million tons of gravel cotton needs are already met by our farmer at 3 billion 783 million kilograms. But, because cotton production has been falling back over the years, the support for the cotton has been ignored, our farmer's production has declined day by day, and unfortunately we have entered among the world's most cotton importing countries. When we were a country that exported cotton for a while, we are now one of the most cotton importers in the world. This is persecution for the Turkish farmer; this is a major blow to the Turkish economy, a wound. Look, we pay about $3 billion for fatty seeds, we pay the world for oil imports, but like the soybeans that will satisfy Turkey's fat needs, we don't care about any of them -- they're made out of cotton, they're made of rhubarb, they're oil -- we don't care about any of them, and we're making them fall back every day. That's why our farmer's in trouble. Solution? The solution: Snow bonuses have increased positively, but increasing cotton premiums a little bit more, given a product-based support on a regional basis, and increasing cotton fields will satisfy Turkey's need for cotton, he says, and I give you all respect.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0007par0061	Thank you, Mr Varli. Now, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise the first 15 members of parliament entering the system for a minute according to the Civil Code 60. First words, Mr. Engin. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0008par0067	Mr. President, members of parliament, Turkey's Statistical Agency announced its data on the Industrial Index in September 2016. According to these data, industrial production dropped 3.1 per cent in September compared to the same month last year, and industrial production by August declined by 3.8 per cent. Exports, which have been in constant decline in recent years, have also declined in October and dropped by 4.6 per cent to 11.7 billion dollars in the same period last year. The September budget deficit was $17 billion. If exports in one country are constantly shrinking, industrial production is falling, and the budget is giving huge deficits, that country's development veins are blocked. Today's conclusion is the most concrete evidence of how the AKP government wasted our country's time, energy and resources in 14 years, which did not give any importance to science, technology, RD, innovation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0009par0070	His name is Good.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0010par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. A new blow to academic freedoms has been struck by the AKP's ruling force, which launched in 2002 on October 29th, claiming it would liberate universities. In August, the so-called settlement of the bag was presented in the law, and the withdrawal of the offer was brought into the KHK with an overnight operation. From now on, the presidents will be appointed one man to the palace, and the non-verbal way of science will be closed. Those who are taking the country away from democracy one step at a time, who are trying to take over what they can't win with the trustees they've appointed, think they're going to align non-verbal universities with the laws of the law, but they're wrong. Last week, hundreds of professors gathered at Boğaziçi University and yesterday at ODTÜ have asked for the cancellation of the KHK. From academics to students, teachers to guardians who don't listen to the voice of any cut... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The path you're going is not the way you're going. You today are not only striking academic freedoms, but also Turkey's future, its ten years. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0011par0078	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0012par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. The ByLock programme is considered to be an internal communication tool. Thousands of users of the ByLock have been known to be arrested or discharged from office. However, it is also alleged that there are some politicians who have not been processed even though they are used by Lock. Our proposal is that an international and neutral IT company examines the ByLock program and detects all users. If we propose to the AKP, if he is not afraid or afraid of anyone, he will explain to the public all who use by Lock. If the AKP does not do so, it will have a sense that it is cooperating with the terrorists. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0013par0084	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0014par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Days before the European Union's annual progress report on Turkey is published, Prime Minister calls to the European Union and says, "We will draw a red line over your red line." Yes, Mr. Prime Minister, throughout your powers, you draw the red line to our goal of the national, strategic European Union, the freedom of thought and expression of universal values, the rule of law, the independence of justice, the principle of democratic functioning forces, and most importantly. In the context of the findings and criticism mentioned in the progress report, I am calling on the European Union and the government to reduce this tension and continue the negotiations in a calm manner. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0015par0089	Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0016par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputy Prime Minister Nurettin Canikli announced that they seized 527 companies and handed them over to TMSF for financing terrorism. I'd like to ask the government if there's any concrete evidence of these companies' ties to terrorism. What are these? So what are you going to do with these companies, sell them? How will the transactions be done, with or without the tender or with your followers? If it turns out these companies aren't involved in terrorism, will you return them to their owners? If so, who will be held responsible for the occasional damage? What will happen to the citizens who own the stockholders of the stock market? How much do your trustees charge? What are the responsibilities of these trustees, and what action will you impose if they are negligent?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0015par0093	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0017par0095	There is a 12km road line for the districts of Kokobayır, Alasar, Omarler, Kalburcu, Delektaş. Our Mukhtars were informed that they had been scheduled last year, that their tender had been held and that it would be completed as soon as possible, but the tender in 2015 was still not carried out. Infrastructure's been done, and it's just been left out. My countrymen are waiting for the road to be built. I don't understand why a AKP-run municipality, who boasts about building roads and bridges at every turn, would avoid making a 12km road. Why hasn't the tender road been made, where, what malfunction? We keep getting complaints from our rural neighborhoods that they don't get enough of the services. From here to the mayor of Balıkesir Metropolitan, don't leave your work unfinished. Five of our neighborhoods, whose names I've mentioned, are expecting your services immediately.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0015par0097	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0018par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Even cooked chicken doesn't live in what power does to disabled citizens. Our disabled friends took the disabled KPSS test, and for a long time the result of this test was not announced, they lingered for months, and they were not even answered. Then, with our efforts, we learned history, they were informed, it was announced on August 24th, the installations were determined. Even though they've delivered all their papers, these disabled friends of ours haven't been hired in months. As a motive, the security investigation is ongoing, and some are not even being properly answered. Again, we have 1,500 disabled teachers who can't be assigned. They can't talk to themselves, they can't make appointments, they can't talk about their problems. We can no longer appoint these disabled...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0015par0102	Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0019par0104	Mr. President, the government has still failed to deliver textbooks at schools, students and teachers who cannot solve the problems of the press, Parliament and the public. After two months of opening schools, the Ministry of National Education, which failed to distribute textbooks, has committed a complete scandal. I'd like to ask the Minister of National Education if you'll be handing out textbooks at the end of the year? He believes that he will correct the problem of education by exporting the mentalist teacher who has handed over national education to the terrorist organization for years and ultimately has caused trouble to all of us. Mr. Minister of National Education, who has made a statement about everything but has not spoken about the textbooks that have not been distributed, must resign immediately. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0015par0106	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0020par0108	18 students registered at the Çanakkale Yenice Kayatepe Village Elementary School are educated in a united class with one teacher. The Ministry of National Education is trying to explain this situation under norm staff regulations. One of the two teachers serving in the village is assigned to another school. Students in different age groups are educated by a single teacher in the same class. Students in 1, 2, 3 and 4th grade are taught together in the same class as four classes combined. I'd like to ask you: how many schools in the district of Çanakkale have combined class applications? How many of these schools are village schools? How many students are educated in the combined classrooms in Çanakkale, Turkey? How many classroom teachers are waiting for the appointment? Shouldn't public education be increased in the budget? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0015par0110	Mr. Illgezdi...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0021par0112	Mr. President, the Department of Labor and Social Security's regulations on Part-term Studies came into effect yesterday. Thus, another step has been taken by making our women even more unsecured, fueling discrimination at work and deepening the sexist work department. Women and labour organisations react to this arrangement, which rightfully legitimizes the practice of hired labor through women's labor, which is based on the exploitation of women's labor, which is the sole duty of women, who try to push women out of social life, forcing them to work part-time instead of nursing. We, women, have the right to work in part. We do not accept that all burdens be reduced to women's shoulders. We're going to fight this mentality that keeps women trapped in motherhood and housekeeping. Regular work in union and secure workplaces is the most natural right to raise children in peace in public and workplace day care. Remember, we don't want charity, we want our rights. I demand that this regulation be reorganized.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0015par0114	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0022par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the concerned ministers. In September, there was a flood that affected the region altogether, in the Districts of Eynesil, Giresun and Giresun. Three of our citizens lost their lives in that disaster, many homes and businesses, public, private enterprises, were flooded. One of the towns where the disaster hit was Eynesil. 11 villages in this district, 12 neighborhoods, 59 houses were damaged, some of the public institutions were flooded. Most importantly, the bridges that provided access to the district and villages and neighborhoods have been destroyed. But so far, the wounds of the disaster have not been healed, no budgetary work to restore life to normal, no promises made. In fact, the municipalities in that area are told to receive aid, such as 100-125 thousand liras. It is mentioned that some $2m has been sent to the Cradle City Hall. We don't know what these findings are based on. Mr. Ministers, I hope they'll explain this. I'd like to bring you up to speed on this matter that I've brought up before with a question proposal, and I'd like to thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0023par0119	Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0024par0121	Thank you. Again, I'd like to bring up Pissy Industries Professional High School. A construction company close to the government has begun construction in the garden of Şişli Industries Professional High School. The Şişli Industrial Professional High School is one of Turkey's pupil schools. He has 5,000 students, 25 major institutions, which deal with the automotive company. 7:40 a.m., 21 p.m. Students are there to study, and teachers are also trained. It has a very important tradition that has existed for many years. But the Ministry of National Education has not been involved in the lawsuits in this process. We'd like to know why he wasn't involved. Why is it that this school, one of our country's most important schools, is being built in the garden of the school? Why do you want to covet every valuable land? Why are schools coveted? That's what we want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0025par0124	Mr. President, that was brought up yesterday. We made a statement yesterday. This place on the skewer belongs to the Bulgarian Foundation.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0024par0125	No, it's not.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0025par0126	It's 59 acres.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0024par0127	The case has been filed, Mr. President, to be reinstated to the Bulgarian Foundation.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0025par0128	He donated 17 acres to the Ministry of National Education.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0024par0129	You're talking about false information.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0025par0130	Construction is a school building. It's not looting, it's not looting. So it's good to talk things over.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0026par0132	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0027par0133	Then may I inform you, Mr. President? I know all about it, I was at that school the other day. Mr. President's information is incomplete and wrong. The case is under way now. I've been...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0026par0135	Mr. Responsor, I think it would be much better if you and Mr. President talked about this backstage during a tea conversation like this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0027par0137	Then he should have said it in the tea conversation. Is that a thing? Misinformation.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0028par0138	Let's talk, let's talk.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0027par0139	Misinformation.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0029par0140	Mr. Arslan, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0030par0142	I'm asking the Prime Minister: The raids on the Republican daily are completely against the freedom of the press to determine the arrests of its executives and writers. With the AKP's power, our country ranked the 151st among the 180 countries in terms of media freedom among the world's countries. Aren't you uncomfortable with this period of freedom of the press left behind? Does this not undermine Turkey's image? Two: The authors and executives of a newspaper that has no ties to the journalists, who have so far fought against Fetullah Gulen. Do you think that the prosecutor should be replaced because of the investigation by a Republican prosecutor? Three: Cumhuriyet daily has no crime beyond reporting, and its executives and writers have committed no acts of terrorism against the state. What do you intend to do to get these nine arrested journalists to stand trial without arrest?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0031par0146	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0032par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm waiting for a statement from the Treasury Department. In accordance with the Law on Reconstruction of Some Acquisitions 6736, reports are coming that the taxpayers, particularly small tradesmen among them, are pressuring and threatening officials of the Ministry of Finance to increase the matrix. Is it true that exports and economic activity have stopped, that they've had a very difficult time at the small, medium, large tradeshop because of the bad going on in tourism and the wars at the borders? Is the Ministry aware of such pressures, or is it an organized enterprise? Secondly, the Mudla-Fethiye Bay 2 Tunnel has been delivered for six months, but it still hasn't been opened. Why is that? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0033par0153	Finally, Mr. Wellercuoğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0034par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister of National Education. After the coup attempt on July 15, the schools, which belonged to this structure and held thousands of classrooms, were shut down and their property handed over to the treasury. Ministry officials have noted that the buildings in question are a national wealth, while the schools are said to be transformed. In this context, I'd like to ask our Minister of National Education if these transformations have been complete? How many schools have been closed across Turkey so far? How many of these schools have been converted into imam-hatip, social sciences, science, sports and fine arts, and how many have been converted into vocational and technical Anadolu high schools? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0035par0158	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly It was adopted by the International Institute of Justice and Law (IIJ) on November 8, 9, 2016 in Valletta, Malta, and by the European Commission on the 14th merger of the General Assembly on the development of the role of MPs in the Building of Anti-Terrorism Systems in the Framework of Justice. The names of the political party groups, dated 28/3/1990 and announced by the General Assembly to form a delegation under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 3620, are submitted to the information. Thank you. It has been presented to your knowledge. Mr. Akçay, you've entered the system. I'll make a promise for two minutes before it comes to the agenda. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0036par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. There are 30,084 disabled quotas at the National Ministry of Education, which are full of 16,338. There are 13.746 open-impaired quotas, and right now, all over Turkey, there are around 1,500 disabled teachers waiting to be appointed, and there is nothing preventing the appointment of these teachers immediately to these disabled staff of the National Ministry of Education. The disabled teacher candidates expect these appointments to be made immediately. We'd like the Ministry of National Education to show the proper sensitivity. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0037par0184	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0038par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. The majority party's deputy leader, Gülay Sbarker, had a negative or even a denial after the statement of Mr. Gülay Basci, our Istanbul MP, who had just been quoted according to 60. It's not often the lawmakers take the word out of their seats, and the group's vice presidents don't have that kind of reflex. In this regard, I'd like to leave it up to you to give our congressman an explanation so that what our congressman says doesn't get misunderstood by the General Assembly and by the public. However, Mr. President, members of lawmakers, for every occasion, both the majority party and the opposition parties, we're talking about the virtues, the virtues, the beauty of democracy. Fine, fine, fine, but in the field and in practice, the exact opposite examples are being brought to life by bureaucrats and politicians. It's like: "Some in the provinces and districts, we're hearing a variety of reports of visits to the village, to the tradespeople, to the neighborhood, to the room, to the association, to the majority of governors and districts. Lawmakers shouldn't really be challenging this situation. The governor of the state, the governor of the state, of course, is an officer of the government, and I have no objection, but when the citizen looks at them, he expects them to be the dispatch and administration of state affairs in an objective, objective understanding. Even our MPs should be able to say, "Do your job, brother, first of all, do your job." But on the other hand, I consider it a duty to warn the ignorant governor and the trustees who act contrary to the customs and customs of the state. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0039par0191	Thank you. Let's give the remaining minute to Mr. Backup. Here you go, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0040par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, 39 acres of that school -- the stone, I'm naming the company -- are now there, in some way, given to the Bulgarian Foundation from the Padishah Foundation. He's on trial. Hopefully, that case will come to an end. 17 acres of school is built, and instead of 39 acres, it's building a stone structure 1 residence -- make no mistake -- in exchange for 3 different schools. His schools amount to $3 million per million, and the school's land is worth $25 billion in water. So, is that the name of making the state's property go after someone? There's also a very important point: the Ministry of National Education has to be involved; it hasn't been interfered, it's said to be of public interest. We'd like to know what kind of public interest there is here. We demand that construction be terminated immediately, that the garden be left to the students. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0041par0200	Thank you. Mr. Bostanci, please, I'll give you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0042par0204	Mr. President, thank you. Of course, we don't have that attitude or style here, when the MPs are making their one-minute speech, we don't try to correct it by going out in the middle. It's just, yesterday he made that point again, and there was an explanation there, and when it was repeated, I felt the need to repeat that statement. In fact, I felt the need to share the information that had been sent to us rather than to share it with the public. The information that comes to us is that 17 acres of the 59 acres of the Bulgarian Foundation, which were returned to them in 2014, are donated to the Ministry of National Education, in exchange for a school being built. The construction was also a school here, and there was nothing else, so it was a residence, it was a hotel, and there was no construction on it. Again, there is talk of building a school in a school area. The State Department of National Education will surely hear the statements of the deputy. Apart from what I've been told, if there's anything out there besides my explanation, I'd also like to ask that the situation be disclosed. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0043par0208	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0044par0209	Mr. President, we have photos. The day before yesterday, construction of the residence started. You're getting false information and giving false information.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0043par0210	Guys, let's finish this polemic; you've both expressed it. Master, you're in the system too. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0045par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, our country is facing serious problems, hard times. There's been a serious mix-up in the country. In fact, it's similar, unfortunately, in our universities. These days, our universities are running for student representative, but we're investigating a significant amount of pressure, imposition, political coercion, and we're getting serious complaints. Let our students fight as gentlemen, make their choices, not lose faith in democracy. Let's not demoralize youth, let them choose freely. In this country, we've always seen what kind of consequences are involved in bringing in dishonest people to places, so I find that extremely wrong. I've got a lot of examples in front of me. For example, at the University of Süleyman Demirel, it is ungentlemanly and there is serious intervention in the election. Other than that, the election of the candidates elected again in the democratic way has been cancelled and appointed by the rectory instead. The same is true in Amasya (Amasya), the elections are cancelled, both candidates are given the rotating presidency. The UNIAK candidate in Iconia is running an election campaign in non-democratic ways. Again, in my district, in Samsun Havza, the current candidate is being taken by the mayor of the ruling party; part of the candidates are being bribed, children are being helped to burn and so on. I mean, these are really ugly interventions, and we really shouldn't be doing this. In particular, it is wrong for nationalist, ulteriorist young people to be cut off like this. I want to stress in particular that this is not going to do the country any good. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit02spe0046par0218	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104, 105, and the Constitutional Council of Turkey's Institution, to investigate violations against the basic rights of public workers, especially public workers and freedom of expression. 1) Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir [[İstanbul]] 2) Meral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Pain]] [[Pain]] 6) The Leader of the Secret [[Ankara]] 7) Ayşe Acar Başaran [[Batman]] 8) Mehmet Ali Aslan [[Batman]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hakkari]] 22) Mehmet Emin Adıyaman [[Lug]] [[İstanbul]] Public workers who have reacted to Ankara and Suruç massacres, which have resulted in hundreds of deaths in Turkey, have been exposed to public pressure, especially by state officials at the top, who have used the right to strike against suspension of all public services, including education and health, including public services, who have participated in statements and actions or expressed their concerns about right violations. KESK members who lost friends in the Ankara massacre used strike rights on October 12th-13 to mourn their friends and protest the responsible. However, investigations have been carried out against many KESK members who participated in the strike and massacre statements, disciplinary sentences have been issued, and legal proceedings have been launched against members based on the reading of the press texts. Similarly, KESK, DİSK, TMMOB have been informed that the action carried out by the school principals was illegal, political and ideological, and the information sent to the governors regarding the December 29th action of quitting jobs to condemn curfews, to defend peace and the right to live. However, it has been determined by prosecutorial decisions that teachers should not one day take office according to the union's decision. There are numerous ECHMs, prosecutorial and administrative judicial decisions on this issue. The right to strike, protected by Turkish criminal law, has been openly violated by executives, guaranteed by the Constitution and ILO contracts 87 and 98, with investigations into the strikes and statements attended by public workers. During this period when administrative pressures against public workers are concentrated, teachers who have also sought peace through social media platforms such as Vine Politics, Police Officers Solidarity have been exposed, who have been accused of sharing messages that support the Democratic Party of Peoples or simply demanding peace for terrorist organization propaganda. Targeted educators have been subjected to actual attacks, forced to leave the districts where they serve. For example, Çilem Seda Erdogan, a teacher in the same district as Ali Kurdistant Özgüler, who served as school manager in Dursunbey district of Balıkesir, has been threatened and surrounded by a group of 25-30 people. The district police officials, who are charged with protecting the rights of all citizens to live and live and to report to the republic's attorney and to conduct the investigation, have led the educators to leave the district on the grounds that there is "no life safety." Again, a psychologist protesting curfews and children's deaths on Facebook has been suspended from his post at Deep Education and Research Hospital. "Don't let the children die." "Everyone's wish is to make peace." Even a programmer who responds has been exposed to a terrorist investigation. The United Nations International Convention on Personal and Political Rights guarantees the freedom of expression of many radical texts, such as the European Convention on Human Rights, but unfortunately today, freedom of speech is clearly violated in order to suppress opposition to power. "It is essential that those who are present in public, especially in universities, hospitals, schools, those who are present in the terrorist organization, be quickly removed," he said by the President himself. Statements, such as expression, make all public workers a target, and public workers are deeply concerned about their safety and job security. The violation of public workers' freedom of conscience and expression is a scorching problem today in a conflict where thousands of teachers have been removed from the districts under the name of service education, the killing of health workers, the redesigning of all public services. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Health workers, like all who are under pressure due to the ongoing curfews in Turkey, are experiencing many problems, including safety while doing their duty. In order to investigate the health workers' problems and determine the rights violations, we demand and demand the opening of a Parliament under Articles 98, 104, and 105 of the Constitution. [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] 3) Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] 11) Burcu Çelik Özkan [[Mwah.]] [[Siirt]] [[Siirt]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Tunceli]] [[Van]] 23) Tuğba Hezer Özturk [[Van]] The curfews declared 56 times in 20 districts of 7 cities since 16 August have totalled 295 days in total. All legal values are underfoot by curfews declared without legal grounds. In this ongoing process, many health institutions are being used by law enforcement as headquarters, in which case the right of health workers to offer health care in the physical space and by the constitution, the right of citizens to receive health care. It goes with it to the bottom of the basic right to live. In addition, we have received word from some health workers that information that the buildings will be used by law enforcement will be evacuated. According to the "Property of Health and Safety Districts and Property Agreement Project" of Geneva's contracts, which are Turkey's party and organises war law, on August 12, 1949, no armed forces must enter the health zones in any way. So the blockade of health care agencies' law enforcement and obstruction of public health rights are clearly a violation of the contract mentioned. In addition, since the beginning of the bans, many protective health care services, such as pregnancy monitoring, vaccination, and the pursuit of chronic diseases, have failed as a result of the failure of family health centres. During the process, treatments for patients who receive regular medical treatment are failing because of the limited service or closedness of pharmacies, resulting in a loss of physical, non-reversive, mental illness, or even loss of life. In addition to failing public health care, health workers are also prevented from performing their duties. In the first place, the vital findings of injured people applying to hospitals should be looked at, while law enforcement is expressed by health workers, such as preventing interference, taking the patient's fingerprints, and keeping a report on an intervention worker. The ambulances were also reportedly blocked by law enforcement on their way to pick up the wounded. In the process, health workers who try to do their job are not only prevented, but also beaten, threatened, and even killed. The health workers Job Ergen, Sheikhmus Dursun, and Abdulaziz Yural were killed trying to help the wounded. In addition, recent reports from the written and visual media show that health workers who try to do their job in areas where there is a ban are also targeted by publishing their initials, departments and social media accounts. In addition, a statement issued by Health Minister Mehmet Muezzinoglu has been announced that health workers serving in the banned areas will work not in the form of 24-hour shifts, but in the form of weekly shifts. The reason for this is that hospital personnel do not have problems getting in or out of areas where curfew is being imposed. In addition to this statement, without legal basis, it has been carried out without formalisation with any written instructions. On the other hand, the Ministry of Health is responsible for securing the working conditions, safety of its staff, and the most basic human rights, especially the right to life. Health workers have also stated that they have reported their violations to the Ministry of Health from the very first day in areas of the curfew and have demanded measures to ensure access to health care. For these reasons, we immediately request that a research commission be set up under the House's roof to investigate the problems of health workers fighting to survive, including war, and to determine their rights violations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer the Constitution's 98th edition of the Constitution to investigate the impact of gender-sensitive budgetation, to investigate the impact of gender-sensitive budgetation, to investigate the impact of centrist structures in Turkey, which is the biggest obstacle to social gender-sensitive budgetation, and to investigate how social gender-sensitive budgetation can be done in this field by working with experts from women organisations and local governments. In order to ensure social gender equality, the state must produce policies to ensure that equality in all areas. Otherwise, if the national budget planned to meet the collective needs of society, the education, health, social security system, employment, transportation, in all areas, is not planned to prevent discrimination against women, especially if it is not planned to eliminate inequality between genders. In this context, the method of budgeting based on gender-based gender is one of the most effective methods in women's fight against discrimination in areas such as employment, education, health, participation in politics. Such a budgetation would also help women who make up half the population to increase education, health and prosperity, and provide a socially egalitarian and democratic understanding. Social-sex-sensitive budgeting does not mean a broad budget separation or an equal budget for women and men. When we look at other countries, there is a separate Ministry of Equality in Sweden, one of the most successful countries in social gender-sensitive budgeting, and this ministry is the garantizer of the implementation of the gender equality quota of all other ministries. In Britain, budget talks report all kinds of economic, social, cultural areas based on gender analysis, and as a result, for example, 95 per cent of the budget for employment can be used to increase women's employment. In addition, 12 other European countries adopted social gender-sensitive budgeting policies in 2003. In Turkey, it is clear that there is no improvement except for limited number of projects. However, implementing women's-focused budgetation in local governments should be a priority in terms of the perspective of gender equality to be built from the local community. A budget that can see different needs of women in different municipalities can only be built from the locals, which can serve the principle of equality. In this sense, the Democratic Regionals Party's municipalities are principlely based on women-focused budgetation in all local budget processes, and are developing policies and projects based on women's priorities in spending and service production. Thus, practices such as opening their homes for women, opening free daycare centres to support women's employment, opening cooperatives to make women's invisible labor visible. However, the strict commitment of local budgeting in Turkey to the central structure is a major obstacle to social gender-sensitive budgeting (TCDB), which has been implemented in some municipalities, particularly DBP municipalities. To overcome these obstacles, it is imperative to develop an understanding of governance adopted by a decentralised political and administrative structure. When surveyed countries such as Australia, India, where social gender-sensitive budgeting is effectively done, it is noted that the understanding of governance is adopted. To ensure gender equality, this understanding must be adopted as the basis of the development plans. Resetting priorities in the distribution of public resources is essential when editing concrete applications for TCDB. For this reason, methods such as adding special precautionary pens to the budget and constant monitoring of the implementation results through independent monitoring mechanisms are the most common applications. The implementation of all of this will not only ensure gender equality in terms of the budget, but it will also be possible to reduce women's poverty, provide gender-sensitive approach, increase economic productivity and transparency. In this context, we propose that a parliamentary research commission be established by working with experts in the central and local budget work in Turkey to study policies and the results of the implementation of works in countries that set an example of TCDB, to investigate the impact of TCDB policies in ensuring the equality of women and men. Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0046par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 18th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The General Directorate of the Prime Ministerial State Archives and the General Directorate of Algeria will organise an archive exhibition and seminar in Becaya, Algeria on 9 November-10 November 2016. The programme is submitted to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990, on the part of Ankara MP and Security and Intelligence Commission President Professor Emrullah İslam. All those in favor of the motions of the House... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Council of the European Union will hold a meeting of Presidents of Economic Affairs Committees on the Energy Union in Bratislava, Slovakia, on December 1, 2016. The issue of accession to the conference is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who do not accept... are in favor of a countermeasure. Thus, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the Law Bill and Proposals of the agenda and the Other Affairs From the Commission. We will begin talks by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Court of Justice (1891) and directly on the agenda of the Court of Justice, which is in the 669th ranking State of Emergency and the establishment of the National Defence University and the establishment of some Laws. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 419 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this decree shall be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the decree in the law shall be discussed in sections after all talks on them are agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in their departments shall be voted separately. The first word on behalf of groups who want to speak on the whole rule of the law belongs to Samsun MP Erhan Usta. Here you go, Mr. Master. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0047par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the precious Turkish nation following us, I salute you all. Now, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Action Party Group on the State of Emergency 669 and the establishment of the National Defense University and the amendment to certain Laws. On July 15th, Turkey faced an attempt at treason, perhaps an unprecedented coup in its history. We all know that and we accept it, of course. We see it as an invasion attempt, and it's not just an attempt against the elected government, it's an attempt against the entire nation and the state. So, of course, we support the fight against the terrorist organization. We also supported the State of Emergency in this framework. Turkey is going through extraordinary conditions, and in extraordinary circumstances, it is normal to have some extraordinary practices. Developments have shown that the PKK and the PKK feed from the same source, terrorist organisations run from the same centers. The PKK wants to complete the resolution, which it failed to achieve on July 15th with its actions. In this case, Turkey is actually facing serious risks at the Beka level. So in order for this struggle to succeed, the struggle has to be done right. I'd like to focus more on that, in terms of how we're going to fight this challenge today. In my opinion, the government has made a strategic mistake in fighting the government. This error... when it was supposed to start at the top level in the struggle to clean up the coup attempt, it adopted a fighting system, and today, perhaps 200,000 public servants or private sector workers, who worked in different units of this area, were either suspended or their schools shut down. So, for once, the justice system has become a serious burden, and things are not working out right now. Look, the normal justice system in Turkey doesn't work, and even the work in the fight against ▪ doesn't work in any way because the work has increased, on the other hand, in fact, it's about half or a third of the active judge prosecutors, more than a third of them have been suspended. Unless, of course, they're righteous practices, we have nothing to say about that. So what I called the strategic error was that it would be much more accurate to start from the top to the bottom, first to deal with critical units, and then to go down to the lower levels, in terms of the practicality of the work. For one thing, our will is very clear about this, and so has our President-General over and over again: Let all those who are found to be charged with the crime, the contact and the defection, be kept in no state at all, and all of this shall be cleansed. However, in order for this to be done, a healthy investigation must be carried out so that there are no victims. No one should be discredited without enough investigations. Now, the National Movement Party has never crossed paths with this structure. When we look at the history of this structure, there is a period when it is called a congregation, where, at this moment, the head of what we call the terrorist leader, there is a period in which he is referred to as the Great Hodja Eoraha, and then the parallel state formation has come into its form. Everyone knows that the National Movement Party has never crossed paths with this structure, and even our President-General has repeatedly warned about this structure in the past. For example, when Fetullah Gulen said in 2011 that Fetullah had to be brought to Turkey, that the activities of this structure had to be stopped or suspended, if the government or those who ruled the government that day had not opposed us, maybe Turkey would not have faced such risk at the level of beca if it had not been ignored. I'm not saying this to confuse the past and find some criminal. I expressed it because I thought it was right and necessary not to face similar risks in the days ahead of us and in the days after that. Now, whoever has been weak in the fight against ▪ must find out. Whether it's civil bureaucracy or military bureaucracy, in the political world, those with intent and negligence must be identified and punished with the most severe punishment. We see it as a necessity for the peace and security of this country. For years, the young patriots have been out of work, and those who place them in military and civil bureaucracy must surely answer in front of the law, and in this framework, the fight against ▪ must be carried out in the harshest manner, not watered in any way, not stretched out, not loosened. Of course, the method we set in this struggle must be legal, and the law must rule. There shouldn't be any victimization just because there's gonna be abuse. It shouldn't cause resentment to the state in order to mortgage the next ten years. Now, a lot of public officials have been suspended, discharged, but I think it's very important that a lot of people, not a lot of people, maybe not all of them, don't know what they're accused of, and even worse, they're not allowed to defend them. And when he is not given the right to defend, the investigation will not be able to remove the truth. People are trying to express their own innocence without knowing what they're accused of. Therefore, the appeals will not be much of a result. Look, this method of fighting is an app that will cause real fuckers to rub their hands on crypto fuckers. This may be the truth that's at work, the crypto coupgers -- because there are some serious allegations about these -- that will make you happy. We need to give people the right to defend ourselves, and we need to know what people are accused of, and we need healthy investigations. Therefore, we need to proceed without damaging the struggle. In this struggle, the principle of the individuality of crime is ineffective. We have hundreds of samples, and I don't want to keep you busy with them right now. So, somehow, his wife is guilty, and you're firing her husband, and we're leaving her kids without drugs. There are no such applications. So it's true for 3 million Syrians -- so it's not the state's right to leave their child without drugs, whether it's guilty or guilty, for our own people, for their father's involvement. When we do these things, the real dignitaries will be happy and will benefit from this country's interference. There are practices against fair trial. Once these secret witness statements started to cause a lot of trouble. People who have been called to testify or taken in are struggling. There are hidden witnesses, here are five people, 10 people, and there are serious slanders. In the past, we see that the victims, the tribulations, are now born with hidden witnesses, and these secret witnesses are turned into a total slander machine. Now, in the practice of lawyers, for example, I've been to Samsun, and they've told me there, and it's coming from somewhere else. Lawyers stand in line for four or five hours to see the client once, and they only meet for 15 minutes. The prisoner doesn't know his rights, the lawyers are treated as sides. Lawyers have collar mikes, cameras on top. For example, in Samsun, there are those who are arrested for ISIS, there are those who are arrested for PKK, there are those who do not practice it. They say that our lawyers in Samsun, for example, are limited to our right to defend themselves. They will sue, and tomorrow they will all win in international court. Do we have the right to do that now? So we're saying he should be punished, so I'm a representative of a political party who wants to be fought hard. But while we're doing this, we shouldn't risk the future of our country, and we shouldn't be wrong about what we're right about. That's what all these criticisms are for. So, unfortunately, in the coming period, our country is at risk of facing serious compensation in international courts. I'd like to draw the attention of the practitioners. Now, officers object without knowing what they're accused of, and they're trying to prove your innocence. Objections must be carefully examined and must be returned from error as quickly as possible. For example, even in terms of people who have been cleared, if they have been suspended, I'm afraid the start-up is not being done today, which also leads to a victimization. Of course, pushing people to hunger and despair without further analyzing the growing victims and complaints will be incompatible with any Islamic or human value. Now, on the other hand, there are people who have not been involved in any crime. There may be people who, in some way, have been associated with this structure at the level of worship, with the statement of Mr. President. Just as the government said, "We have been deceived." He said, "He repented, he regretted, and perhaps we should give these people the right to repent in that sense. Thus, it is important to give non-crime citizens the opportunity to reduce that number and bring peace to society. So it's easy to lose, it's hard to win; we have to be on the side that's trying to win. Betrayals must be eliminated, and those related to ▪ must be pursued to the point where they flee, but they must certainly be avoided by abuse of power by weak and cheap accusations, for the reasons of our President-in-Chief's statement. It is often said that many public officials, who are still in office, are trying to avoid the ongoing struggle by allowing them to be removed from office by slandering, should be quickly made clear whether this claim is true or not. No matter how many mistakes are made during this struggle, the unity of the nation and its support for the fight against it will be reduced, and we need to avoid it strongly. The Turkish nation -- we can say with pride -- stood up as one heart for the July 15 traitorous coup attempt. Our institutions need to avoid the practices that will undermine this union, and we need to warn our institutions in that sense. I'd like to say that the government has a duty in that sense. The law must be applied equally to everyone, to the same measure and dosage. If we depend on the rule of law, it's impossible to think otherwise. Being reminded and close to power in combating a terrorist organization shouldn't give anyone an advantage, shouldn't take protection. Whoever has the bylock must be deciphered, and whoever has aided and abetted to the end must be done fully and fully. Without justice, without respect for rights and law, Turkey will not be considered to be secure, to establish national security; regardless of its adjectives and duties, it is the duty of politics to go after it. It is the government's historic duty to bring the terrorist leader of Pennsylvania into our country by convincing the US to let him go. In doing so, diplomacy must be strengthened by legal evidence. At home, the council of the peace must be punished, with all its organs and elements. The political staff of the July 15 coup and its political connections, elements and extensions within the political institution remain a mystery. The fact that no progress has been made on this subject, that they have not yet been enlightened, is very painful, and it is a huge freak in need of explanation. The coup attempt on July 15 will not be able to be understood or illuminated in all its aspects without being exposed. Before the political footing is discovered, the fight against ▪ will be lame, and this wicked terrorist organization will not be able to be eradicated. Turkey has entered a dark period in which everyone must act in a sense of national responsibility, leaving small political accounts aside. This, at the same time, will be the government's sincere test of implementations in the political wing. On the other hand, there is no standard in the practices of institutions in the fight against ا. Different institutions do different applications around here. I don't want to go into any of this, I'm running out of time. Here, we need to secure an application unit. A person who has been wrongfully taken away from his bread and is not allowed to work anywhere else is left with no choice but to commit a crime. This is a very important place, folks. So, therefore, we need to get people in the right place, give them the right to defend, punish whoever's guilty. Let's not separate ourselves from the principle of personality of crime in any way, but innocent people should be punished and left without bread, and we shouldn't be pushing them into the laps of terrorist organizations. There are other examples -- we see very closely -- that, if asked of us, we can also give them -- that some institutions are hurting innocent people to shut down their own complexes, their own problems, their own problems in the past. We see them in institutions that we know and know very painfully. Whoever shouts too much, he's got contact. We see it in a very painful way, at the level of institutional managers, perhaps at the level of politics. Now, of course, it also has its reflections in politics, commerce and the business world. Again, some companies are being discredited, officials are being brought in, because they have become a member of an association in the past -- not in the end closed-down associations, but in the process of legally operating organizations. Of course, if he provides financial support, let's fight this terrorist organization as hard as possible. However, just because there's a member of an association... and he's a member of a fraternity three or five years ago -- we've got samples of this -- but we're now sending an inspector over to him. These practices will harm this country, its companies, and they will cause serious economic difficulties. We have to be very careful about the firms here. Then, of course, there will be no way to invest in such an environment. Now, this decree that we're talking about is largely making arrangements for the military side of the business. For one thing, the army is very important to our nation, which means more to the Turkish nation than the armed forces. Each one is a link to our glorious history, the founding element of all of our states is the army, the land is the homeland, and the state is built like an unbreakable roof over the nation. The establishment of the state of the Republic of Turkey, which we have dedicated to its existence, has been established under extraordinary circumstances, and the main role here is our army. Turkish history is a whole, Turkish state is one. That's why the history of the establishment of the Turkish Armed Forces was based on the 209th year prior to the reign of Mete Han, the Great Hun Emperor. Because Mete Khan, the inn of the inn, is the man who has developed and implemented the system that is now being used by every army, and he is happy to be Turkish, happily our ancestor. In our glorious army following the honour of this nation's Islam, our Mehmet (Muhammad SAW) has run from border to border, from square, from victory to victory. It's not a new situation when our nation and the oppressors who can't stand up to our state want to use asymmetrical means, weaken our national institutions and defeat us. In every period of history, there have been various infiltrations and attempts with this intent. As such, July 15th is one of them. Here, however, the government has to be governed by patience and sanity, not by reflexes and reactions. Eliminating the institutions that made our army will mean the same as putting dynamite at the foundation of our government. Every plane that takes off, every tank that comes out, every ball that comes out, locks on the gate of the barracks, puts all the blame on the stone, on the steel, on the concrete, on the concrete, it's a mistake. Disrespecting the military would mean injustice to our glorious army, which led to the failure of the attempt. It must not be forgotten that in these institutions lions have grown outnumbered traitors, and these lions have taken a stand in favor of the national will, not the myth. Of course, as much as we have claimed the dignity of our army and of our soldiers, so much so that our soldiers and our army must have their own dignity. It is a way for the military to open civilian control; it is a way to redefine the conditions for entering institutions, the procedures for education and the foundations; it is a way to change the curriculum; it is necessary to improve order and activation of control; it is necessary to establish continuity in military educational institutions in terms of developing governance, but it is not the right way to shut down these institutions directly. In a hurry, decisions made in a state of panic will mean nothing but reactionaryness. These steps, thought to have been taken for a solution, could create greater problems. It's not the system, it's the management problem. It would be wrong to cover up the weaknesses of management by not seeing the problems caused by the administration and to put the responsibility elsewhere by saying, "System is causing problems. " In our opinion, military-sivil-government relations, the mechanisms for civilian control of the TSK are incomplete and wrong, but this must be resolved with the participation of all parties and with the common mind, and must not be rushed. The Turkish Armed Forces are a whole with their forces and their commander is the Chief of Staff. Thus, the disintegration of the TSK will produce a bureaucratic structure that will undermine the dynamic structure of the TSK. Instead of dismantling power, it would be appropriate to investigate. If a civilian participation is foreseen in the decision-making process, or if this deficiency is needed to be resolved, the change in military structure is sufficient. The multitasking of the Joint Commands will cause serious difficulties in implementing it. On the other hand, it is unfair and unfair to close military schools and to associate students and even graduates with a different university instead of TSK. If there are those involved in terrorism or irregularities in entering the high school or the academy, they must be accounted for, and they must be sorted out, but otherwise, it is unacceptable that all of them be victimised by a wholesale approach. In short, my friends, I believe in the need for us to continue our fight against the state of the law in the most efficient way, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0048par0070	Thank you, Master. The second word on behalf of the groups is for the Republican People's Party Group, MP Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt. Here you go, Mr. Bozkurt.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0049par0074	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I've been promised a decree on the known law enforcement, and I'm going to pass on the opinion of our group. Of course, July 15th is not a classic military coup, as you say. On July 15, that night around 11:00 p.m., as Prime Minister Bakili Yıldırım said, a small group within the army was mobilizing a small group within the army. Later, your President saw fit to describe it as, because it had to be God's grace and open the door to the presidential road. Now, we haven't known the leader of this coup in four months since July 15th. You brought up the name of a man called Fair Orphan, whose whereabouts are unknown. Now there's something about a kimal Baymaz, or a sinkmaz, or something, and it's unknown. After this move, you declared a state of emergency on July 20th, and since then, you've ruled the country in accordance with the law. We're seeing one of them today. Dear lawmakers, this bill of law we're discussing is reorganizing our army. Which army? He's organizing an army with a 2,000-year-old written tradition. So, you're reorganizing the Turkish army, not any army of Middle Eastern imperialism, with a 4,000-year-old tradition and a two-hundred-year-old history. What did you do? The General Staff to the President, the High Military Prime Minister, the military commanders to the Ministry of Defense, the Minister of General Staff and Coast Guard Command to the Minister of Interior, their schools to the Minister of National Education, the hospitals -- destroyed, military government -- and the Ministry of Health and justice to the Ministry of Justice. You divided the army into sevens, you left no command integrity, and now this army is fighting in Syria. You say we'll be at the table and in action. This is the uniform of the army, friends -- I say that uniform as a former soldier in twenty years -- is not a random uniform; I remind you that the uniform of that army is Colonel Reshad Bey's uniform, including all the lawmakers present in this House, including the President. Who is it? It is the uniform of Colonel Reşat Çitiltepe, who held his pistol to his temple at the time of his promise. That uniform comes from Mohach, from Malazzirt. In that uniform is the dust, blood, and sweat of Sakaryah, and of the Innu, and of the Dumlupinar. That uniform is the uniform of Marshal Çakmak, the uniform of Ismet Pasha, the uniform of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Look what you guys did to that uniform. You treated the generals of the Turkish army as potential terrorists, had the petty officers search the door of the Memorial. Do you know who those pashas are? I order you not to attack, but to die. Now, it's not like I'm the commander in chief or I'm the commander in chief, guys, okay? If the commander-in-chief doesn't trust the general of the army, so be well. That's not an army. Look, Mustafa Kemal Paşa -- the reason I didn't say "Ataturk" is because Mustafa Kemal Paşa didn't become Ataturk at that time -- came to Afyonkarahisar on the evening of July 27, 1920, held a meeting with officers in Afyonkarahisar on July 31, 1920, saying: "Sirs, for the sake of life in the world, it is necessary for mankind to live." To have power, you have to have power, you have to prove its existence, and you have to have strength. Power is the army. The life and integrity of the army are the faith of the nation who appreciates the power, the need for power. My dear brothers, see what Mustafa Kemal says: the British have sought to deprive our nation of sovereignty, of course, to deprive it of the army first. So they defied our army's weakness, and they disgraced it. My dear brothers, Mustafa Kemal says: The army is friends, but the army is because of the Zabitan delegation. In that case, our zabita will protect and protect our army, which is meant to be destroyed by our enemies. Look, last but not least, Mustafa Kemal: Even for a moment in his life, a man who has known his dignity, his dignity, his dignity, his death, can't endure this treatment that the enemy has been subjected to as long as he survives. Alas, those who ruled this country did not turn against us, against our army. I want to get this on the record, and I'm saying I don't think it's right. My dear brothers, with these decrees, you're trying to build a new regime. You don't have a problem with that. If you had a problem, you would have first started with the political expert who had given the body to him, you would have started with the political tradesman, you would have started with the traitors walking around in their political guise. You didn't start there. You didn't start there, dear friends. Where did you start? From a poor teacher who joined a legitimate, legitimate union. And thou tookst away the teacher, which was in the village of Tripınar, in the field of the steppe. Why? It's called a Good, good, okay. You threw out the cadets. You closed Deniz High School, founded in 1773. The Ottoman Empire, which you were told so much about, was the second of the Ottoman Empire. In the Mahmoud era, you attacked the first institution of scientific, secular education in this land, which he opened in 1827. Oh, come on! This is murder. There's no army in the world that doesn't have its own military medicine agency, it doesn't have its own judgment, it doesn't have its own schools. It's not right, it's not right, don't do it. Look, you're trying to build a regime with your own mouth, you're saying on August 16th, that we had the same range, we were walking the same range. What's the range? Since 1923, you are allied with all of them, all of them, in Turkey and in this land, as long as there is organization under the name of the secular community, the secular community, the religious community, the religious community. This is unacceptable, friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The tendency to convert the secular republic into a state of religion with a reference to Islam is not acceptable. To provide that, my dear brothers, dear friends, you make everyone else, everyone is your enemy. There's no one; look, we don't have a single friend in the area, we don't have a single friend in the world. You insult everyone; you insult the Prime Minister of Iraq; you insult the President of Syria; you insult the European Union; you insult everyone; everyone is your enemy. You believe that only God is yours. As you have written, the rear windows of all the vans are empty, and there is a decision from heaven.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0050par0090	Alhamdulillah! Alhamdulillah!
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0049par0091	Friends, he is the God in the heavens, the One in whom all of us are bound. (CHEERING) Everyone is a servant of God. No one has that kind of superiority, that kind of reputation. But do you think that all the decisions that God Almighty has made are for you? You're the enemy of writers, you're the enemy of cartoonists, you're the enemy of CHPs, you're the enemy of scientists, you're the enemy of academics; you're always with God, you're the enemy of everyone. My dear friends, look at what you've done when you think you're with God, turn around! You separate a forty-day baby from its mother, and God is with you!). You're exporting a teacher with his wife, who has no sin, God is with you! You're putting an academic, 30-year-old girl who was a professor in April outside your door, God is with you! You don't ask about those children who were lynched on the Bosphorus Bridge, who were torn to pieces, or the students of the Air War School, God is with you! You've kept military students in prison for four months who were expelled from Yalova and brought to the Bosphorus Bridge. You throw out judges, you throw out prosecutors, you don't always come to a lot of zinhar politics around you, you just can't seem to come. Why, why friends? With all the work going on, can this be done without any politics at all? Look, dear friends, you've broken up the nests! Children were unable to visit their parents and their children in fear. You're doing all this; everything you say, everything you say, everything you write, it's obvious, so you think that these are not recorded in history or forgotten, or something like that, you're saying that the messages of the victim are our thoughts. You're saying in 2010, sir, that the son of a bitch who said that we were seeing the PKK. In 2012, you say, "I gave the order to negotiate, so let the one who has a problem tell me." By the way, God always agrees with you, whatever you do, it's always accepted. My dear brothers, look, this politics has no end. You'll see if you can stop learning about history from this guy who's got a fez in his head and read some books. In January 1933, the two German right-wing leaders, Von Papen, and Hitler, Hitler, are in power on January 31st. On February 28th, the Reichstag of the German Parliament is being burned. Hitler says, "The socialists burned it." He makes a law of authority, Germany takes over all of it, and then he comes out of the Jews, starting with socialists, and he puts everyone else in jail. What's going on? After 12 or 13 years, the world and the Germans are in great pain. Towards the end of the war in 1945, the Nazi general visits the Führer in the bunker. The Führer says, "Let us surrender now, the civilians are dying." The Führer's answer, Hitler's answer, is to make an example of friends, saying: What surrender? It was their choice, they voted for us, of course they will die. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Friends, it has never been seen that fascism sows nothing but blood, revenge, hatred, hatred, and death and suffering and brotherly enmity. When history is so far ahead of us, please avoid such practices as Germany's, when Hitler's Minister of Justice Frank puts his mind to the judgment of the Turkish judges, and says, "What does Reis say?" I told you from this stand, the day you buy the woman, justice dies, the day justice dies, the state collapses. Don't do this. Look, there's no law in any of your decrees. Yes, constitutionally, that's right. Yes, according to the Constitution, you speak according to the State of Emergency; it's true. It's legal, but it's not fair, it's not fair. You've created nearly a million victims; one day you're dating, you're saying that you've mixed the trail of a horse with a dog. One day you're going out and you're saying, "There's no victim, people. Of course the victim is the victim, and that's exactly what we're saying. You can't go on with so many victims; don't, don't. Get a new decree out, get these innocent people back to their posts, don't do it. Look, I'm telling you again, and I'm sorry to say, I'm really sorry to say that the most stable thing we've done since we arrived in Congress is to rush into a martyr funeral, but you've even interrupted him, my friends. What kind of conscience is that, brother? As we fight the PKK in the east, we have 80 thousand liras for the martyr, our July 15th martyrs -- the number of which is unknown -- 251, 253, 256, you have decided in the last 241. What is this? How in God's name can martyrs be different? And Allah is with you here! Mashallah, you make such a definition of God... Look, you don't listen to me, you don't listen to Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu; we're enemies. Let there be no one in this House. Let us all go, and come with 550 AKP MPs. Tell me, what will you do differently than that? Seriously, what can't you guys want to do? All you care about -- I repeat -- is changing this regime, don't do it. The dome of this republic is Ataturk and secularism, not to play with its key stone. You're going to destroy that dome, we're going to stay under it. Come on, look, believe me, don't! They've never seen anyone do that in history, so don't! You're not listening to me, maybe you'll listen to this: Why did you let go of my love, You've been lying under your feet today? Is that so? This is not the right word. You wanted trouble, God gave it to you... it's the truth. The demand, however, comes out clearly, Is there any chance that your meshiya is going to persecute you? As you said, "Work, Sheriat, you didn't work, you stopped, And thou hast fabricated for him many riches. And then I'm going to shove it in the middle of it, and I'm going to say, You made a fool out of poor religion! Don't work, order it from where you sit, Do not be weary, for you will have a reward. When you write and leave the house in the morning, And when you have recited your book, read it one by one, My Lord is the Watcher over all things. Your load's off... now get in the coffee! The children would crawl away, starving at the end... Aren't you the guardian of Huda? Knock yourself out! His treasure is his own treasure! Look, whatever expenses you have, it'll pay! He is the Guardian of the Fire, and He is the Watcher over all things. I'm running out of space, aren't I? He's the one who added it! He's an army angel under his command. He will destroy disbelief for you. When you're bored, the penitent voice of yours: Let him come himself, and let him send him. And the children belong unto him: Lalan, and sister, and sister; He is your Guardian, and He is your Guardian, and He is the Watcher over you. Though he is yours to deal with, he is yours to deal with; And what are you? The client! You can't swallow this anymore! It also requires a little respect... what is this disrespect? He made Huda his servant, and he became Huda his own servant; And he's not shy enough to say, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm Not me, Mehmet Akif Ersoy says. You know, you tell a lot of stories. Yes, my dear brothers, in the end, look, in the First World War, the Ottoman Army was tendered to the German General Staff. The Falkenhayns, the Von Goltz pashas, whatnot, the Port von Sanderss were running around. And now, look, an American liaison officer has arrived at the Joint Chiefs. And now, the same Joint Chiefs of Staff is calling us to meet with the army-members tomorrow. I thank that Chief of Staff. But I remind Mr. Chief of Staff, I remind him that we are always in the Memorial, we are the hosts, we are waiting for you all. With respect.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0051par0139	Thank you, Mr. Bozkurt.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0052par0140	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0051par0141	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0052par0142	Mr. President, in his speech from the bench, we're doing all this as enemies to everyone, that we want to form a religious state, that we're cooperating with the inventors, that we're enemies to everyone...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0051par0143	Here you go. I'll give you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0052par0145	I'll tell you. That we are enemies of the CHP...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0053par0147	And a little bit of you are.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0052par0148	Shall I count more? I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0054par0149	Here you go, sir. I'll give you my word for two minutes of teasing. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0052par0153	Mr. President, dear friends, I thought that the classic indictment of the CHP, which had a lot of secularism concerns, was in the past, in the form of acting in an Islamist manner, in the form of a state of power. More rationally, it had evolved into a language about the facts of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0055par0154	That's the truth.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0052par0155	In fact, they've been having these confusing conversations here, and you remember, we've heard a lot of talks, a lot of verses, a lot of references to events. Now, when you hear these words again, when the CHP goes through all these failures, they say, in psychology, they want to go back to the old story when you're disappointed in the real world, is that the case for the CHP? I'm seriously concerned because the CHP is important to us, and it's important to Turkey's politics. We wish to hear the speech of a People's Republican People's Party (CHP) who are facing the facts of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0055par0156	You have the king of regression!
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0052par0157	You're going to form a religious state from a party that's been in power for 14 years. It's probably not a very consistent approach.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0055par0158	It's very consistent.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0052par0159	You are the enemy of all. You are the enemy of all.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0055par0160	That's right.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0052par0161	You're cooperating with the murkers. lf we get 50 per cent of the votes in this country and we're in power...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0056par0162	Then why are you going after all the schools at the Ensar Foundation?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0052par0163	...no one here can speak of such secularism, there is no Turkey; not here, not anywhere in Turkey. Turkey is a free country.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0057par0164	Hitler got the vote, too.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0052par0165	As for Hitler, how many choices have we had? How many choices did Hitler make? There's always this Hitler reference, unfortunately, they don't know history, they don't know Turkey's reality. Win in the election, not by competing with words, not by making some misunderstandings with words.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0057par0166	I hope that day's almost over.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0052par0167	People make the final decision, and every time you go to the nation, it's democracy.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0058par0169	How many choices did they come up with?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0059par0170	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0060par0171	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0059par0172	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0060par0173	Mr. Bostanci has stated that he has accused the speaker of statements he did not mean to the ruling party by falsifying the speech that the General Assembly and Turkey enjoyed. So, Mr. President, we have a say in the matter.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0061par0174	But what did I say?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0060par0175	But should I answer it? He also has accusations about CHP.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0061par0176	What charges? It's not an accusation, sir, it's not an accusation, it's an evaluation, it's not an accusation.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0060par0177	I don't feel the need to answer for him, but your honor...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0062par0178	I promise Mr. Bozkurt for two minutes. Mr. Bozkurt, please don't let us challenge a new challenge. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0063par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hodja, I made the Hitler analogy as an example of history, a perfectly accurate analogy.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0064par0185	It's so wrong, look, it's so wrong.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0063par0186	Look, I said something, be careful. Hitler, of course, came by choice. You call every criticism we have here, but the people voted for us.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0064par0187	How many times did Hitler choose, how many times did he choose?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0063par0188	Dear Hodja, I know. I would never, ever pronounce him with you or with the AKP Group; nor would I wish for such a thing in this country. That's not what I meant. I said something else. If you notice, Hitler finally says: "It was their choice, they voted for us, of course they will die." I wanted to tell you where fascism is going. Look, let me be honest with you, I'm really trying to watch my language here, but just take a look, please. Look, you're saying that the Republican People's Party supports terrorism. It's your right to do all this, what do we say?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0064par0190	I didn't say that, but you're trying to answer me.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0063par0191	What I'm trying to say, my dear teacher... is, of course, let's not talk mutually. I apologize, Mr. President. Of course, these words we say here are to spare our country. Of course, we all believe that every member of parliament loves this country as much as I do, and they love this army as much as I do, and I'm 100% sure of it. But, friends, if anyone in the 317 AKP Group thinks that this is the right thing to do, that this country is going to prosperity, that this country is going to safety, that this country is not in trouble right now, I have nothing to say. But, come on...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0065par0194	Yeah, yeah, we think so, we all think so.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0063par0195	Yes, Mr. Metiner, I know you. I'm sure it is. We can talk wherever you want, so it's fine. You can't shut me up with words, don't get your hopes up.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0065par0196	We all think so.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0066par0197	Congressmans, let's not talk mutually.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0063par0198	But I invite you to think.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0065par0199	We also learned fascism from you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0063par0200	Think about fascism...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0065par0201	Look at your own history.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0063par0202	...think about these events and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] First shake your mouth and then we'll talk about it.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0065par0206	Look at your own past, your national chief. Do not utter the word "fascism."
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0067par0207	Thank you. Now, members of lawmakers, we're done speaking for the group. The first word on behalf of all individuals belongs to İzmir MP Kerem Ali Continuum. Here you go, Mr. Constant. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0068par0216	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the entire Constitution under the Law of 669. On the night of the 15th of July before I begin, I give thanks to our veterans, our nation, especially our saints martyrs, who, perhaps, run to the squares to never return to their homes in the face of a treacherous coup for the sake of their flag. In this process, we have 246 martyrs at this time, and I ask all God's mercy. Again, I ask the grace of the Lord God to grant to our brave men, who bear witness in the fight against terror organizations, the evil centers of our country, our beautiful land, like a nightmare. For the sake of the land, for the sake of the flag, for the sake of the national will, as they have shown the greatest sacrifice, and the greatest of heroes, I swear to the Lord Almighty, that we will make the same sacrifice for the holy relics which he has given his life for them. We will not allow them to carry out their treacherous intentions in this sainted land, watered by the blood of martyrs for thousands of years, and we will not allow operations to happen. We will deal with the accounts of all the low-down organizations, the higher minds of the PKK, the PYD, and the DEAS, who have the same traitorous intentions. Yeah, let's go back to the night of July 15th. The speaker just made a description of that night, a coup attempt, yes. A group of terrorist soldiers dressed in army suits. But, was it an attempt, was it limited to a coup attempt? Based on the size of it, the other data on it was an invasion attempt, a postmodern invasion attempt. All the other data supports it. Yes, against that invasion attempt, we fought this Veterans Congress and our entire nation together. What happened that night? A bomb has been dropped on Turkey's Grand National Assembly, where national will has been restored. The helicopters fired upon the innocent people. People tried to get run over by people's tanks that were bought with people's money. We won't forget it, we won't forget it. All together...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0069par0219	Nor will we forget, nor will we forget.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0068par0220	All our nation, all the representatives who were here in Parliament that evening, we all fought back. What do we do from now on? Of course, the government will show its reflex. Let there be no more such thing, let there be no more action, let there not be such an invasion. We will do so. Where's what I need? It's in the Constitution. What is this? It's a state of emergency. It was found in the 119th, 120th, 121th Amendment of the Constitution. Based on that, we've come here, thanks to the National Movement Party, supported, declared a state of emergency. Then what can be done in an extraordinary way as needed? It's perfectly clear that citizens can be given money, goods, and service obligations. Basic rights and freedoms can be partially and completely stopped. Again, decrees can be issued under the law. So, as a result, we began to issue decrees under the law. This is where we meet, as one of them, Judgement 669. Yes, the state has shown its reflexes, its defences: no more attempt at public authority, no more invasions. Let this traitor, low-life terrorist organization, who has infiltrated the state for 40 years, be wiped out of the state. Let other terrorist organizations, who know the opportunity, be wiped out. That's what we're doing, that's what we're doing, that's what we're doing, and that's what we're doing. Yeah, we listened to the preacher, and he's critical of what's been done. Of course you will, your criticism will guide us in modern democracies, modern democracies.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0070par0224	What does it have to do with Ataturk? What did Kim do to Ataturk?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0068par0225	But that's too much, so it's a little unfair to talk about millions of victims. How does our government act when making these arrangements? Our government has been made very clear, and our President... We're not acting out of vengeance, we're not acting out of compassion, we're trying to act out of a sense of justice. Of course, there may be minor setbacks, but we're dealing with thousands of exports in public institutions. I congratulate our institutions from here, there's a really, really big hit in these studies. It's victimology literature. In the words of our Prime Minister: Our fellow martyrs of 246, our veterans, our nation. The tank came upon the nation that night. Please, let's talk about if there's anything missing. Here we are, by law, by decree, by decree, and by decree of the new law that we shall issue. But let's not obsess over these months of hard work. If we shade these studies, we'll put oil on some people's bread, and it'll be watered down. I expect a more guiding work from the opposition here, especially from the main opposition party, so that they do not create a basis for the irrigation of this work, or to cast a shadow on it. Yes, I was going to mention other things, I was going to mention Europe, I was going to talk about France, which criticised our laws of law, and our State of Emergency. They've declared the State of Emergency in two terrorist incidents, and the State of Emergency has been under way for over a year. I was going to give an example from Europe, Hungary, who criticized us. Is Hungary going to guide us, or will they teach us human rights, or will the United States of America, which welcomes us here to reject 1,294 asylum seekers? None of them have any rights. We do our reflexes, we do what we have to do to protect ourselves, they mind their own business, they look at human rights violations in their own country, they look at their own democracies. And finally, I'd like to say that our greatest achievement in the process was the spirit of defeat. On August 7th, 5 million of our citizens met in Yenikapi, Istanbul, and it was a magnificent sight. We thank those who contribute. But please, don't ruin this Yenikap spirit. We're not going to cash it. Whatever you do, the defeated spirit will not be corrupted. Because people wanted it, people made it, people don't care. The spirit of the new door will continue. We'll all work together again for the rule of national will. If there are some missing, we will correct them, but I stress again, in this struggle with the government, our government, our President, our Prime Minister, our ministers, let no one cast a shadow on this successful struggle. I hope we all end this together. Yes, we're making arrangements in the Court of Law 669. We're changing the structure of the High Military Division. He will be Prime Minister, Chief of Staff, Minister of Interior, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Justice, Joint Chiefs of Staff and Minister of National Defence. There will be no general commander-in-chief, naval commander, military commanders, orenerals and admirals in the past. Again, we're making arrangements in military schools under this rule of law. Again, we're making arrangements in the field of health. We're making arrangements in the military jurisdiction. But it was just a false statement, not the military justice department, but the military judges and military legislation will be tied to the Ministry of National Defense from now on, and I want to correct that here. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0071par0236	Thank you, Mr. Constant. The second and final speaker on behalf of his subjects, Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar. Here you go, Mr. Baydar.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0072par0240	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to speak against the Honorable Parliamentary Court of Law 669. Imagine that you are a police officer or a security officer or even a police officer or even a police officer or a member of your family in the southeast fighting terrorism in Syria, military operations in Iraq; ask our soldiers who are standing guard at border stations; or ask the military personnel next to you if you have an operation and God forbid they want to be treated in what hospital? Where do they want their final treatment? In general, the answer to this question is the military hospital, and in the end, I would like to be treated in GATA. The most important thing that separates the Turkish Armed Forces from other military armies around the world is that the army is called the Pharamber stove, and that there are martyrdom and veteranships in the war. If you shut down military hospitals and GATA, which are the only place to be applied in an operation or war, and turn them into one of the Ministry of Health hospitals, then tomorrow the plague of our martyrs and veterans will be on you. The honorable MPs were opened in 1898 under the name Gülhane. It was named after the Gülhane Garden of Topkapi Palace. It was established to raise medical and medical personnel needed to repair the medical supplies of our army's expeditions. It is a model of Ottoman understanding of reform in the tablet. You know, you're always saying that the Gülhane Military Practice School has been an example of the importance of medical science and patients in our country from the day it was founded. It is the cornerstone of medical and cultural transference efforts from the Ottomans to the republic. After the formation of the Republic, we find Gulhanian physicians on the front lines in the war against diseases such as syphilis, malaria, tuberculosis, and Trahom. In the name of mercy, physicians such as Refik Saydam, Tofik Secret, Abdulkadir Noyan have made significant contributions to the health of our country. To work in sacrifice for the country, to stick to medical, scientific principles, to do what's best for his patient, Gulhane is the joint care of all physicians raised from Gülhane. Military medicine is all medical intervention and practices aimed at keeping the armed forces' fighting force strong and strong. You can't do military operations with civilian doctors. In addition, under the Geneva Convention, it should not be forgotten that civilian personnel cannot function in the field of operations. Diving medicine, flight medicine, harp surgery are the special areas of military medicine. Our proposal is the establishment of the Gulhane University of Health Sciences. In this university, Gulhane Medical School, Gülhane Faculty of Dental Medicine, Gülhane Faculty of Pharmaceuticals, Gülhane Faculty of Health Sciences, Gülhane University of Health Services, Gülhane Institute of Health Sciences, Gülhane Institute of Surgery and Technokent. This university should be established as a civilian university within the YÖK, with a protocol with the Ministry of National Defence and Interior, to train the medical school student, expert doctor, professor, and assistant health staff needed by Kara, Deniz, Air and Gendarin General Command. There must be an original model for civilians and soldiers to work with. For example, if 200 students are to be admitted to medical school, 100 could be military students and 100 could be civilian students. In addition, all military hospitals referred to as Hajdarpaşa Military Hospital in Istanbul, the TSK rehabilitation centre and the Ministry of Health in Ankara can be adopted into this university and develop a unique and theme college model and military health care. With this model, the founder and developer of modern medicine in our country, the name of the health ministry, which currently depends on, would have been prevented from disappearing into dozens of educational research hospitals. Deontology's loyal past will be respected and the 118-year historical mission will be carried out. Now, here's to some distortions, deception and lies. What is it, sir? There's no efficiency in military hospitals. In military hospitals, efficiency is not measured by the number of patients taken care of by the grocery store account. Efficiency is measured in the moment of war and terror by the military hospital's entire staff with the ability to be ready for 24 hours and the immediate successful intervention. As part of the anti-terrorism operation in GATA, 164 were treated in 2015 and 581 in 2016; a total of 745 injured gases were treated by lying down. Our mortality rate is 3.8 per cent, which is over 10 per cent in developed countries. If you're interested in looking at civilian patients during peacetime, you'll just have to remove the ten percent civilian patient quota. Nothing is more precious than the nail of my Mehmetchik, who gave his life for his country without blinking. As for us, we provide the requested military doctor from the outside as a chartered officer. In the last five years, despite all the ads, 41 has been available to the Navy, 36 to the Air Force, and 2 to the Army. So if you don't train from military medical school and you can't put a post-continental-service specialty in front of a teenager, you can't find a military doctor. They also enter the rosehouse with the lowest score. There's a distortion. The student who won the Gülhane enters the delegation to become a military student. First of all: if his eye is more than number three, if he has a slight curve or opening in his waist, if he has flat feet, he can't be a military student. Second: physical competence. If he can't run 1,500 meters under a period of time, he can't be a military student. Third: Security investigation from the Police Department cannot be a military student unless it is appropriate. So let's not be unfair. The university exam is not the only criteria for getting into the rosehouse. Hodri square: Let's set up Gülhane University of Health Sciences; let's get 100 civilian, 100 military students; you'll see, civilian students' scores will be in the first three medical schools in Turkey. Now, they don't see Diyarbakir. From 15 July 2015, Diyarbakır, Şırnak, Hakkari, Tatvan, Van, Elazığ, Erzincan and Adana were assigned to 275 academics and medical staff at 21 days of various periods from Gülhane. From March 12th to June 10, 2016, 64 lecturers and 21 O.R. technicians were assigned to various majors at Nusaybin and State Hospitals, with the request of the Ministry of Health who had told the lie. A total of 402 assignments have been made. One of the reasons for the closure, sir, is that Gülhane has become a home. You've eliminated all the people in Gülhane, so why are you shutting them down? Why don't you just shut down all the schools and schools that you've picked up and picked up. You just shut down Gülhane? Or does the Minister of Health, who's been called a Ranger, have other accounts, other ambitions? That's what we want to know. Come on, it's a shame. In the Battle of Çanakkale, you're making the bones of military medics who couldn't graduate because all their classes were martyrs. As a civilian professor raised in a rosehouse, I warn you for the last time in history that if the municipality does not take over the position of the camp, the Minister of Health, especially a Minister of Health, will never take over the role of the military medical staff. Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0073par0261	Colleges and hospitals can't have too many heads, you know that, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0072par0262	Yeah, that'll be fine.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0074par0263	The negotiations on the entire bill are thus complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first chapter was the 18th article (a) of the 18th article (b) and the interim clause of the 18th article (b) covers the 1st and 28th clauses, including the 20th article 13 and the temporary article 14th. The first word for the groups on the first chapter is from Antalya MP Mehmet Günal. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0075par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you and the great Turkish nation. Dear friends, we're discussing the decree of the law on this extraordinary situation that we've had since July 15th. First of all, before we get there, I'd like to give you a brief statement today about the situation in Şişli, which Mr. Backup was talking about at the opening, and Mr. Bostancı was responding because it's not today's matter. I've been tracking it for three years, Mr. Bostanci, since it started. And I'm going to give you the detailed information that I'm about to introduce to you, because it's up there, because of the density of the agenda -- I can't get up and down. But let me put it briefly: it was a training ground. The technical schools in the skewer are the campuses we're talking about. That's why I'm telling you very short notice, it's a very long story. In a nutshell, a school campus has been reserved as a school area since 1958 -- with an allocation -- when it belongs to the Bulgarian clergy, using an arrangement for the foundations. Two or three years ago, a businessman signed with the Bulgarian Foundation, and the Bulgarian Foundation took this from the Foundation and tendered it as a 50 per cent profit share. We've already passed these on to the Minister of National Education and to the Minister of Environment, and even the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization has made it a business area with two-and-a-half examples of development. There are decisions about the Foundation from the past to the present, national education. If such a right is demanded, let the state pay for it, and let it remain a school. There is a 1958 article that says: So let me introduce you. Especially when it's a time like this, it's a different freak. Yes, some of them, as Mr. Bostanci said, were built by leaving school spaces, but perhaps they'll build a school space elsewhere. The important thing was that it was a very large training campus where all of our poor children read and work in the industry, many of the high schools, such as motor techniques, vocational schools, were together, and that's why we're concerned. It can be improved elsewhere. I'll give you the detailed information again, and I'll give it to you in the commission when it comes to the relevant ministers, and we have information in the past. It's not a training campus, it's turning into a business center, I'm afraid. That's how the Rantsal transformation continues. Obviously, this is the KHK, which has already been released -- you know, the state of emergency is coming -- and in the usual period, it's the laws that we've always called the Parliament. In this coup attempt on July 15th, we've all had this experience together with the bombing that began here, along with some of you, as I was on the stand with Mr. President. Of course, all necessary precautions must be taken. Whoever's involved in all of the institutions must complete their investigations, be punished by those who are guilty. But we also need to pay attention to the fact that some of the things that happened right after that really hurt our hearts. We've been hurt by a mass action against the Turkish Armed Forces and by some publications that would humiliate our Turkish Armed Forces. For us, the army is the office of the prophet. The Turkish nation is a nation of armies. In fact, my friends asked me, and we attended international meetings, and we went to certain places in the form of delegations, and you know, in our interviews with the press, they interviewed us as representatives of our friends who were having this experience here, who were at the time in Parliament, after the meeting of Yenikapı, they said, "What was the most remarkable thing for you?" I said, the most important thing for me is that the Turkish Armed Forces in the person of the Chief of the Joint Chiefs of the Chiefs of the General Staff have shown Turkish Armed as a tribute to the Turkish Armed Forces. We as lawmakers here, you as governments, must take care of this, our commanders are with you. Yeah, let's get rid of the perp, but while we're at it, let's watch some things. The other day, we heard that he committed suicide again by not being able to feed it to the pride of an officer, which is new. Now here... our soldier, our police, is proud. Yes, let's do that, but while we're doing that, let's do our designs on the Turkish Armed Forces that have been waiting in the meantime, quickly close them up, put them together. It's a little wrong to say. If there is a place in the system that needs to be reformed, this is legislature, this is the Veteran Assembly; you come in, you bring them all in, we argue here, we argue from the institutions necessary, we present our views, we make changes. In order for our country to develop, especially in an environment where we are now facing terrorist attacks from all around us, sieges from different angles, yes, it is normal for our security forces to be reformed, if there are those involved in the coup attempt, to be sorted out, but we don't find a wholesaler approach right. In this context, we, the National Movement Party, have said it in the first place, if there's going to be an arrangement for the Gendarme, but we've only tied it up with the Ministry of Interior. Is the problem over? So, let me give you a simple example, here's the County Administration Act -- there, you put it there -- it says that he has control of the province, except for the members of the judiciary and the military. The military is not at the governor's disposal. How are we gonna do that without making that change? I'll give you an example. We need to do a lot of reform work. We did it at that moment, put it in the KHK, it happened. Unfortunately, it doesn't happen when we say it. It's the same thing in military schools. We're approaching wholesale, guys. Yeah, let's sort them out, but if there's anything in the exam system... it's about human quality, not school. The people we put in there, they'll be nepotismists again, and if something else happens, something bad happens there again. Let's turn it into college. We said, okay. Then some of the wrongs were partially returned, both about the Armed Forces and the schools, but still about health and education. Sir, let's tie it here and tie it here. It's not about the bonding, it's about the creation of an institutional culture and the efficient work of it. Without creating security weakness, in terms of our country's future, in the most effective way in the world, with the most modern weapons of the Turkish Armed Forces... yes, peace in the country, peace in the world. For him, this army structure, which we call the army nation, which we call the angel stove, must not be corrupted. There's no other nation anywhere in the world who condemns their child and sends him to the army, so he's sending him to sacrifice for his country. We're looking at funerals, and we're very impressed with funerals, and mothers and fathers are coming, and he says: "I'm ready, I have another son, he'll sacrifice it." Now, if we destroy that spirituality, people's confidence, if we break faith, we can't do it again to this institution. We'll rebuild the army, we'll buy weapons again, we'll rebuild the equipment, but we can't deal with those spiritual things. For him, we need to display this sensitivity in all institutions, especially in the Turkish Armed Forces, our law enforcement members, who provide security for us. We need to punish them on the one hand, reassemble the system, and avoid arrangements that could lead to different harms and interagency problems on the other. In this, our friends will have suggestions on the matter. We'll discuss the changes in those motions again. But, as a matter of fact, these judicial proceedings need to be completed quickly, away from the wholesale approach that will cause age to burn as well as the dry. Hopefully, the suggestions that we've given you, we've passed on to you before, as a party, as well as the mistakes we've passed on to you, will be done quickly, the innocents will be eliminated. Otherwise, more social injuries will be inflicted. Hopefully, by making these arrangements for the future of our nation, the immediate trial of criminals will be brought to an end, and our other innocent people, or our people who have been deceived by them, will be restored to normal life as soon as possible. I thank you again with these wishes, all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0076par0282	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Murat Amir. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0077par0286	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. What are we talking about in this decree of law, and what have we been talking about before? What we're talking about is basically state restructuring. What's this need for, what's this need for? July 15 coup attempt. So, who moved Turkey to July 15th? Who ruled Turkey for 14 years until July 15th? Who assigned those casts to the Fetullahist organization? Who let this happen? Starting with the National Security Council, who condoned this despite all intelligence reports, government reports, documents? In fact, when the commander of the Armed Forces takes this report to the Prime Minister, don't pay too much attention to it, you're making a big deal out of it. Who said that? So, dear friends, that's basically what we need to talk about here. The AKP's ruling Fetullahcı has aided and abetted the construction. As a result, you can't scare our declaration with criminal charges, you can't hold us back. You can file as many criminal charges as you want, and as a result, you have no way of concealing your aid and abetting the terrorist organization. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, you love the state of emergency, it's unfairly illegal. You do not obey any of the rules of the State of Emergency, but you carry them out, and you extend them as long as you can. I'd like to ask you from here: How long will you run Turkey with the State of Emergency? When will you bring Turkey into a real constitutional order, a democracy, at least an acceptable legal order? Look, Turkey is on fire, inflation is rising, foreign currency is going on, there are bloody acts everywhere in Turkey, and you're still trying to use the State of Emergency to build your own dictatorial regime. Dear friends, you're doing arbitrary practices, all of which are unconstitutional, we'll take them all away. The Constitutional Court has tarnished its history to make a decision that you would like, and has ignored universal principles and Constitutional principles, but eventually the truth will come out, and today's talks and these laws will be a disgrace to history, and we all need to be aware of that. Dear friends, we're getting further and further away from basic human rights. The basic rights and freedoms under the 15th Article of our Constitution cannot be limited, even if it is the State of Emergency. But in this decree, and in previous times, we see clearly that you limit, limit, even destroy, many basic rights and freedoms. Dear friends, we see exports here. As far as exports are concerned, we're done talking about it, but I'd like to say once again: it's unfair to do these exports this way, everyone has the right to be judged, at least do an investigation. Look, no questions asked, you relieve people of duty, you make them depend on bread. That's not enough. You're branding those people with the law here. Look, even if one of the people on this list is innocent, who's gonna carry the blame? Well, you can give the following reason: What if we're struggling with ▪ and that's what the State of Emergency can be? No, it can't be. We're in no hurry. Look, you can suspend them, you can not export them, you can give them part of their salary, you can get them through a fair trial. Now, it is, of course, against basic human rights to export without these being done. There's a point here in Article 5 that points to our attention right away. A National Defence University is being established, permanent regulations are being made here, permanent regulations are being made in the structure of the National Ministry of Defence which cannot be made in a State of Emergency law decree, but there is also a mandate being issued and the president is again given the power to elect. So, under Code 669, the President is authorized to appoint a chancellor. Of course, you know, he received permanent authority later, Mr. President. Dear friends, I'd like to point out a few points about Gülhane. It is a grave mistake to have Gülhane be civilized and attached to the Ministry of Health. It's always a profit to turn around from the wrong side. Come on, don't do this. Don't kill Gülhane, my lords. Don't do this. Look, you'll come back sooner or later because military status is something else. When it came to public opinion, it was said, "My dear, what does Gülhane do? The most striking example is harp surgery. E harp surgery, our surgeons have a lot of experience, so they can do it. It doesn't reflect that fact. Look, I'd like you to listen to them with a cane. Look, suppose a soldier of ours was injured. Our soldier is first brought to the first aid station, then brought to the emergency station, where the second level is brought to mobile units, where we call them, if they can be improved by mobile surgery; and if they can't, they're taken to Diyarbakır, or to military hospitals in Şırnak, Yüksekova or Haqkari. If there is not enough, the ambulance is flown to GATA, if necessary, and after treatment there, if needed -- which is often needed for veterans -- is brought to the rehabilitation centre. Look, this is an organization on its own, and it's a military operation. I'm drawing your attention to that. That's not something civilians can do. We'll take the civilians, we'll put them to work in the military. That understanding is a misunderstanding. With the GATA shut down, you also finish military practice, end military health training. You're finishing your military sergeantship, you're finishing your military nurseship, and you're keeping our wounded out of normal health care, and you're trying to get them out of civilian resources, but that's not the way to fix it. Look, here, I visited Gülhane Hospital, the old Gülhane Medical Academy. What I see is that the medical staff there is working as hard as they can. You could say that Gulhane was already working; he was in uniform, and now they're working in uniform. But, friends, there's a problem there. As of today, for a moment, we can accept that the treatments of wounded soldiers or military persons are primarily and privileged in Gülhane. However, it needs a permanent arrangement because in the next period, after a year, after three years, after five years, is there any reason why today's Gülhane Hospital, which is no different than any other hospital, would take military casualties first? Look, we have to put this in the legislation, so let's at least do this. So let's say that when the military is injured, they first come to Gülhane Hospital. Even that's missing, so it's too serious a problem to let the doctors there take the initiative of the executives. The military medic, first of all, helps treat the wounded. Yes, the wounded will be treated, of course, but there is one other aspect: the soldier must know that if something happens to him in battle on the frontline, he will be taken care of, he will not be left in the middle, and he will be rehabilitated in the best possible way. Is it obvious, or is it obvious, that we will have a gas that was injured in Şırnak, Silvio? Does he have a place in these regulations? So I gave them priority, and no gas, no wounded, could say. It might be true, but let's say it's true. Do we know that's true in a year? We'll have to put this in the form of legislation. Dear friends, military medicine has its properties. Look, it's all been explained through harp surgery, but there's military psychology outside of harp surgery, there's harp psychiatry, there's military hygiene. You can't teach military hygiene to a non-military medical school. Other than that, there's air space medicine, underwater medicine, military healthcare major science, biomedical primary science. The only major branch of biomedical science in Turkey is Gülhane. Now, in this decree, you say: "We have handed these over. " Not by handing them over, but by training that can only be given in the military. Look, here, again, what does the continental taboo contain? I mean, why does a doctor on the continent have to be a soldier? He'll know the flight plan, he'll know the submarine tag, he'll be a medical team commander, he'll be able to perform mobile surgery. Of course, there's a shortage of GPs. Now, there is no expectation of residency in front of military practitioners, and it must be arranged immediately with a legal arrangement. Since my time was short, I can no longer explain what had been done with Gülhane, what had been done, but it was a big mistake, that it had to be returned quickly, that a formula had to be formulated, and I pay tribute to the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0078par0303	Thank you, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0079par0304	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0078par0305	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0079par0306	The speaker has claimed that the EC PARTY has aided and abetted the terrorist organization. Since then, what CHP has been trying to say is that it has repeated an approach here once again. This is an open taunt. I want to talk about it.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0080par0307	Wait a minute! He picked on the government. 69 is very clear, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0081par0308	Didn't you walk these roads together? Aren't you going to the same range?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0082par0309	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0083par0312	Friends, first of all, I salute you all. The claim that our friend here expressed that the AK PARTY was aiding and abetting. is politically incorrect, legally wrong, mentally wrong, and for once, I strongly reject it. You're always talking about the law. Legally, when does a terrorist organization turn up? When will he show up? When you take action for a purpose, you say, "Yes, it's a terrorist organization." The main thing about this organization is to constantly make it look like it's the right thing to do and get it all over the place. The National Security Council is an administrative body. The National Security Council, sir, said, "Follow and beware." What the National Security Council said in the past. If you try to follow everything that's said, there may be a chance he'll go outside the law. It's up to all of us to act legally.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0084par0315	Which law? Did you put in law or did you leave in law? You've finished the law.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0083par0316	Besides, you know as well as I do what happened back then, what was going on with the AK PARTY's power, what was going on with the allegations, what was going on, what was going on down there? This is the date of July 15th, and before that is December 17-25th.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0084par0318	He went out with you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0083par0319	Because the client has organized an organization based on legal and police intelligence on the structure, and unfortunately, on December 17th-25, you and I have now established the material of this corrupt organization, which we call the organization, which is still, at times, you see no fault in using the material provided by this dirty terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0085par0320	Of course we will.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0083par0321	We're all worried about Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to fight against this organization that means democracy. We can't lose direction. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0086par0326	You'll never get away with it, not like that. You won't get away with it.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0087par0327	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0088par0328	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0087par0329	Mr. Emir...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0088par0330	Mr. President, the speaker has twisted and taunted my speech by saying that it is not in his right mind. I want a promise.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0087par0331	Mr. Emir, I don't see any bullying here. Look, you made a claim, aiding and abetting the terrorist organization, and Mr. Bostancı made statements against him. I mean, he didn't make any accusations against you or your group.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0088par0332	I don't think it's appropriate...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0087par0333	Please, Mr. Emir...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0089par0334	What's he supposed to say, Mr. President? What else is he gonna say? What more does he have to say?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0088par0335	He said that I said something foolish, saying that he was mentally unfit, that he had no explanation.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0087par0336	Look, members of lawmakers, I'm just gonna... sometimes we extend an hour if we have to...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0088par0337	I know.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0087par0338	But if I have to, I'll give it to you right away. I'm really trying to be fair. I certainly don't see any bullying here. If you insist, I'll give you my word for a minute, according to 60. I'll give you my word for a minute, according to 60, because I don't think I'm going to... Mr. Altay, you can appreciate that he made such a serious claim there. He made a claim. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0090par0341	Before I make a promise, I'd like to point out that even in our congressman's speech, the regression times are the same as in our speech by Republican People's Party lawmakers: Since the Court is for the General Assembly, we do not accuse any member of the Justice and Development Party, even though it is perceived as an accusation against the government that we can't go back and talk to the government. We blame the government for aiding and abetting terrorist organizations. I'd like to underline that. According to 69, members of the group will respond to the bullying or bullying of the individual -- which you know very well about the Civil Code 69, which you know better than I do -- or to the bullying of the party. There is also a declaration of taunting the government in 69. The response of a member of parliament to abuses against the government is a clear violation of the Civil Code 69. The Civil Code is not the place to violate the House. I wanted to underline that, too. I do. I do. I do.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0091par0344	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Of course, when I said "AK PARTY," I made a good promise, not to tease the group's vice president, representing the AK PARTY group.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0090par0346	Yeah, that's the intention, and my congressman's gonna fix that right now.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0091par0347	Mr. Emir, wait a minute, I promise you according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0092par0351	Thank you, Mr. President. I mean, of course it's the government. But we're talking about exports of 1,196 people in the law order we're talking about today. Who put these 1,196 people there? There must be an answer to that question. As long as this question is not answered, it is evident that the fight against ▪ is a demonstration. Mr. Bostanist is not in a position to set a date, he has neither the right nor the authority. Look, when the terrorist organization starts, when they allow it, the law will decide, the prosecutors will decide. Did the terrorist organization start at 17-25, or did Erdogan start when his seat shook, or did we give them what they wanted in 2008, in 2009? This will come out tomorrow, even if it's not today in independent courts. My respects.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0093par0356	Thank you. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are complete. The first word for individuals is from Balıkesir MP Mahmut Poyrazlı. Here you go, Mr. Poyrazli. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0094par0365	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own, on behalf of the esteemed lawmakers, under Code 669. I hereby salute your high council. Of course, as you know, a state of emergency has been declared by our government to be effective and swift in taking measures after that treacherous coup attempt, and this decision has been approved by our Veteran Assembly. Now, I think it's important to recap: as we've always said, the state of emergency has been taken against the state, not against the nation. A state of emergency has been declared in Turkey, aimed at taking measures against the terror threat facing only our country. The 669th Amendment, which we are discussing, is the establishment of the National Ministry of Defence University, the restructuring of the Ministry, the commitment of military hospitals to the Ministry of Health, and the decree of a law that includes regulations in the military judiciary. Mr. President, it's the day of the coup d'états that our people, who have not been able to leave their homes in the past coups, have been brought down to the streets by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. It's the day of the coup d'états, who have not delivered the squares to the coupgers, who have also destroyed the traitors of the Fetullahist terrorist organization, but unfortunately, during that treacherous attempt, 246 of our citizens have been martyred by traitors, and 2.195 of our citizens have been injured by traitors. On this occasion, we wish God's mercy to our heroic martyrs and to our veterans a speedy recovery. On the night of the 15th of July, our country was united around one nation, one flag, one country, one state, and our people continued to work under the bombs, while our veterans decided for days not to leave the square empty. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we see that this treasonous coup attempt is not only a coup attempt against our nation, our government, our Parliament, but also against our Turkish Armed Forces. Our Turkish Armed Forces and Mehmetchi have always been our favorite. With this decree of law, our Turkish Armed Forces are being restructured and traitors are being wiped out from this January, which we consider to be the Prophet January. Hopefully, the measures imposed under this law are also important in order to prevent illegal structures from being rebuilt in the Turkish Armed Forces. Our country has survived this treacherous attempt, especially by the decisive attitudes of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the representative of our people, our government, and the Vazi Assembly under which we stand. And our government, praise be to Allah 2023, continues its investments at full speed, despite all efforts to block inside and out. Our investments are continuing with the same determination as our 2023 goals, the Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, Osman Gazi Bridge, the Eurasian Tunnel, which will soon be served, and hopefully we will start again soon, with huge investments such as Canal Istanbul, the Canal Basin Bridge. Dear MPs, of course, our country continues its decisive fight not only with the ▪ but also with terrorist organizations such as the PKK, DAEŞ. This struggle, you can appreciate, is not just the struggle of the EC PARTY, but especially after the July 15 coup attempt, it's time to clearly determine everyone's purity, but not without it. Now I say that everyone must determine whether the bloody PKK is on the side of its side, whether it is on the side of the DAEŞ, or if it is on the side of our beloved nation, who is willing to risk death, and whether it should be on the side of its future, and whether it should be on the side of its words and actions. Now, as part of the state of emergency 669 that we've been discussing, I once again underline that this State of the Law has to be evaluated in the same way as I've been trying to explain up there, and I salute the grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0095par0375	Thank you, Mr. Poyrazlı. Mr. Altay, we're going to pass on your speech, second word on the subject.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0096par0377	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0095par0378	Thank you, sir. Thus, the talks on episodes are completed. Now we're going to start discussion of materials and motions on matter. There are two motions on article 1 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following are the 31/7/2016 dates and 419 rows 669 in the 1st Article of the Law. " And we propose and propose that the declaration of the establishment of the National Defence University be removed from the text of the substance. Dursun Çiçek Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Aytüğ Thrower Haluk Pekşen Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 1 of the Article 1 of the Law shall be changed as follows in Article 669 of the State of Emergency. (MADDE 1- (1) Under the State of Emergency of the Council of Ministers, dated 20/7/2016 and announced by the Council of Ministers' Decision 2016/9064 across the country, measures which are mandatory in the framework of the coup attempt and the fight against terrorism and the establishment of the procedures and the foundations for the establishment of the National Defence University for the defence." Erhan Master Muharrem Varlı Deniz Depboyli Baki Lightning Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0097par0398	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0095par0399	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0098par0400	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0095par0401	Heromarash MP Fahrettin Oğuz Tor who wants to speak on the motion. Come in, Mr. Tor, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0099par0404	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on the motion concerning the 1st Amendment to the State of Emergency 669 and the establishment of the National Defence University. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, I stand before you today to announce both information and an injustice regarding Article 89 concerning the monthly and bonus payment of Republic of Turkey's Retirement Chest Act 5434 at this hour. Dear lawmakers, as you know, when state officials fill the ages and times, according to Article 89 of the relevant law, pensions are paid as much as a month's pension, based on the monthly commitment for each full year of actual service. In the past, more than 30 years of pensions were not paid, and according to the Constitutional Court's decision, bonuses are now being paid for all the working hours. Article 89 of the pension box was replaced by Article 6270, published in the official newspaper 26/1/2012. As of 1475, no bonus is paid for those who have ended up in accordance with the 14th article of the Law on Business Law, which does not require payment of severance. In this case, the officer will not be paid a bonus if he does not wish to retire by consolidating the time of his service to social security institutions, under Article 1475, in accordance with the terms of severance in accordance with Article 14/75. For example, he worked as an officer for the duration of his or her service, but he can't get a bonus if he's already had a day's insurance service. The same is true of the BUG-KUR. If there was a BUG-KUR service before, he served as a civil servant for years later, and if there was a discharge, they would not receive bonuses. As a result, all of the service is under official status and cannot receive bonuses for those who meet other conditions, even if its duty is to be terminated in violation of the 14th Amendment, because it does not have a combined service, although it is in the same condition, one day it will be insured or if it has a BUG-KUR service. A bonus, however, is a result of the work of service. Since you haven't canceled the study, we should also pay bonuses. As this practice violates the principle of equality of the Constitution, I think it is contrary to the principles of right and justice and to public conscience. Because social security is the name of the system that's built for the state of emergency. According to Article 60 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to social security. The government will take the necessary measures to ensure this security and establish the organization. A citizen should not have a case against him because he used a constitutional right in his time. It's impossible to think of a pension as separate from a pension. The pension is one of the main elements of social security rights. It's a direct social and economic right, like education, right to work. If you don't pay a bonus as an officer for years because it has one day or more insured services or because it has a BUG-KUR service, it's going to upset your public conscience, it's going to undermine your trust in the state. Therefore, the Law on Retirement Ark of the Republic of Turkey 5434 must be reorganised and replaced by Article 6270 in 2012. Because before 2012, those in similar situations were paid a bonus. I feel that this contradiction must be resolved, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0100par0412	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following are the 31/7/2016 dates and 419 rows 669 in the 1st Article of the Law. " And we propose and propose that the declaration of the establishment of the National Defence University be removed from the text of the substance. Haluk Pekşen (Trabzon) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0101par0418	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0100par0419	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0102par0420	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0100par0421	Tripoli MP Haluk Pekşen demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0103par0424	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, if a group of vice presidents says anything, I care very much. When the deputy chief of the group arrived here a moment ago, he said something in particular, highlighting his views on the situation here, he mentioned a legal assessment, and he said that the date of this discovery is important. Yeah, that's right, he's right, I agree. The date of this discovery has been set on December 17th. So, I'm asking you now: Mr. Deputy Group President, if you've identified a terrorist organization on December 17th, what reason did you send Mr. Fehmi Korun to the United States, Pennsylvania, to make peace? That's one. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Two: Mr. Deputy Group Chairman, since December 17th, this is your determination regarding the terrorist organization. We have no objection to that. After December 17th, the National Intelligence Agency gave you the name of 1,715 bureaucrats, named the soldier, who is in active positions within the state of the 1st,715. He said, "Do what you have to do with them." You didn't do anything about it, but on the night of July 15th, they slaughtered the people of this country with weapons. So, why did you tolerate this terrorist organization, if that date was December 17th? The public, of course, will pay for this. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, let's move on, let's move on to the matter of the law. Respected lawmakers, friendship of arms, are so important to the Armed Forces. Your comrade in arms is the friend you turn your back on. You guys are done being gun buddies. So let me give you an example of what that means: in 2015, two Phantom planes crashed into the mountain in Malatya, and four of our pilots were killed there. Do you know why they became martyrs, why two planes at once? Because they're flying through the bilateral arm system. The leader follows the plane behind him; wherever the leader goes, the arm follows him, he believes in him. He does what he does in the back because he has to trust him, that's what military does. You're on the front line with the terrorist organization, fighting him, making sure that your comrade-in-arms behind you is ready to die for you and he won't shoot you. That's it, that's it. So the first plane hit the mountain, and the rest of it believed in him, so he hit it, and we got four martyrs. It was a friendship of arms, but you know what you did? You've ended that friendship of yours. How? You've made the Chief of Staff's commanding officer feel like he's gonna choke on it. You've made the president's commanding officer a conspiracy against the President. (CHEERING) That's what you finished. Now you're doing the riveting here. We say don't do this, please don't bring politics into the army. Look, the Russian general says, please read it right, and he says: "The Black Sea is no longer a Turkish lake." It could have been an answer, and the Black Sea is not a lake. That was a joke, but he highlighted the fact that in the Black Sea, when these Armed Forces waved the flags of our ships, it was all of our pride, but not now. How about in the Black Sea? Look, in 2006, we did a big operation where four of the world's air forces could do it, we did it. What was it? In 2006, we lifted 54 planes from 17 military airports at night, we sent them to a third country, and they did night operations there, they came in full-fledged, and they landed in their squares. This was the great force of the Turkish Armed Forces, but you broke it, too. Don't do this, like this, don't bring politics into the armed forces. When you put politics into it, there's no end to it. So we warn you, today you're in power, making big mistakes with everything you get. Look, I'll tell you what's wrong, we warned you from here, the Republican People's Party said: you're making big mistakes to support the Republican daily, which is a big mistake to improve the front for the people. Whoever was investigating... I warned you about that prosecutor from here. I warned the Cumhuriyet daily about your prosecutor who was operating on you days ago, and I said, "This is the prosecutor." I was right. I was right, wasn't I? I'll tell you the rest in the next article. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0104par0435	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0105par0436	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0104par0437	Mr. Speaker has distorted what I have said in a statement that I have claimed to have made a legal statement concerning December 17th-25th.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0106par0438	Well, you said it.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0104par0439	It's distorted context and logic. I demand word.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0107par0440	Let's take a look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0108par0441	Mr. Bostanci, if you'd like, I'll give you my word at your place. You're in the system, I'll give you my word according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0109par0445	Mr. President, what I'm saying is that the terrorist organization that did the July 15 coup. Courts are ongoing, there are already statements of length. Of course, these courts will be brought to an end so that we can come to a legal conclusion. Before that, there are some court decisions as of 2014. I'm sure the common opinion on December 17th and 25th is that the general opinion is that the legal and police departments in the area are doing it. Surely these will be judged legally, and the independent judiciary will reveal its connections. He's been there, he's done this, he's done something... we've set up a coup commission upstairs. Everything's already been talked about there, and as a result, there's going to be a report. We set up this coup commission so the General Assembly wouldn't have a coup commission. There's no point in coming up with the details here. With all due respect.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0110par0448	Thank you. I submit to your votes the previous motion of Haluk Pekşen and his friends: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 2 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that the declaration of documents regarding ship's service be added after the declaration of the gun licenses. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ömer Serdar Ramazan Can Sait Supreme Enver Fehmioğlu Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Hüsnüye Erdoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Without a request for a decision to serve in the public service, they cannot be appointed directly or indirectly. Mustafa Hosni Bozkurt Yakup Akkaya Dursun Çiçek Faik Öztrak Gülay Backuper Text Lütfi Baydar Tacettin Bayır Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the fourth sentence of Article 2 of Article (2) of Article 2 of the Article 2 of the Law shall be changed as follows. According to his interest in these individuals, the passport unit concerned with the National Defence and Interior Ministry will be notified immediately. Erhan Master Muharrem Varlı Deniz Depboyli Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Lightning Desire Virtue Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0111par0479	I commend you with the proper opinion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0110par0480	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0112par0481	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0110par0482	This was the motion of Desire Virtue and his friends. İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem has asked for a statement on the proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0113par0486	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action Group on Article 2 of the Constitutional Law on the establishment of certain measures and the establishment of the National Defence University in Article 669. I salute the Veterans' House. Dear lawmakers, measures taken against Turkish Armed Forces and Gendarme personnel under the extraordinary situation include the dismissal of persons with a connection to the CHP/PDY without a warrant. The traitor must be eradicated and his extensions, but in doing so, as I mentioned in a discussion of the matter, the innocent must be separated from the guilty. In this regard, careful and thorough work must be done, not touched by innocent people, not at fault with those who are innocent. As the National Movement Party, we have always been there for our innocent and victimized nation, and we will continue to be. This process must include other terrorist organisations as well as ا. Anyone who threatens the unity and integrity of our country must be punished without hesitation. This is our country's debt. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to talk to you today about the problems of our victims. Agriculture engineers, food engineers, water products, fishing technology engineers, veterinary physicians, technicians and technicians are unemployed. The hiring of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has been far behind our country's needs. In the last ten years, small purchases have been made by the Ministry, and the remaining thousands of unemployed engineers have been abandoned to their fate, but our universities are still graduating. Dear lawmakers, agriculture is important in our country in every period, and it is largely affecting the economic and social development of our nation. Food engineers who graduate around 3,500 a year are not assigned as much as they should be today when the production of sub-stairs is increasing and a lot of harmful foods are being released. Besides, it is important for our country to employ veterinary physicians to protect animal health and therefore human health. Veterinary physicians who are interested in the production, treatment, rehabilitation and control of animal races, increasing their efficiency, protecting their health, preventing epidemics, monitoring the fitness of animal products such as meat, milk, honey, food hygiene and control are not given enough importance. In order to prevent animal health - and therefore human health - to prevent painful paintings - you need to provide the public employment of enough vets. Thus, employment can be provided and the problems of our young ones will be solved. In our three-sided country surrounded by seas, assessing water products, producing projects, taking part in the world market of water products, can be carried out by water products engineers. Given the potential of our country's water products, the number of employed water products engineers and fishing technology engineers is not enough. Dear lawmakers, in order for our nation to produce and consume healthy food, to produce healthy animal foods, to deliver water products to our nation in the most economic way, to develop our country's economy and to monitor the right agricultural and animal policies, agriculture, food, water products, fishing technology engineers, veterinary physicians, technicians and technicians need employment. Each member of our nation is precious to us from seven to seventy. At the same time, unconscious production is increasing the cost of producers, while our entire country is affected and consumes more expensively. I'm sure the ruling party will listen to such a matter of great importance. I would like to end my words with the following words of the great leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, whom we will remember with mercy and gratitude on the anniversary of his death tomorrow; I especially present this to the conscience of the ruling party, especially to the youth and growing children of the Republic of Turkey: the West was far behind you, or Turk. Manada, the idea, that's the way it was in history. If the West is showing an advantage in technique today, son of Turk, it's not your fault, it's the result of the unforgivable neglect of those before you. Yeah, like I said, I'm leaving it to the ruling party's conscience. From here, I salute all our young people who are waiting for employment. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0114par0498	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit to you the commission's recommendation, which the government has passed: those who agree... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Without a request for a decision to serve in the public service, they cannot be appointed directly or indirectly. Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu (Bursa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0115par0505	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0114par0506	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0116par0507	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0114par0508	Asked to speak on the motion, İstanbul MP Nurhat Altaca Kayışoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0117par0511	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on Article 2 of Article 2 of the State of Emergency Law, number 419. Yes, this is a clause concerning the export of soldiers from the Turkish Armed Forces and the General Command without any conviction. Now, it may not mean much to us and to you as a sentence, but while we were in the field, we talked a lot to the wives of these soldiers who were exported with these materials, who didn't know why they were exported. They're all in tears, in Şırnak, or elsewhere, without even knowing... here, for example, they're calling a soldier in Şırnak, there's an operation. This soldier thinks he's going on an operation with the PKK, he doesn't know anything. You export them without question, without question, without judgment, without the right to defend, and you victimize families. That's a fact. You don't see them, you don't talk to them, but we listen to them. Now, you've destroyed all the basic principles of law that have been established with these KHKs for hundreds of years, even thousands of years. What's one of these? You know, in a normal criminal trial, the court makes the trials, collects the evidence, see the smallest of it, if there is any doubt that the crime has not been committed, even 1% will benefit the accused. He will be acquitted on principle, but today he will take advantage of the authority with the KHKs. You have brought the principle, you have brought such a principle to history, and in this way, unfortunately, you have diluted the fight against ▪ yourself. After the 15th of July, you rewinded 14 years of film, and destroyed all that was bad. You know, in the past, in ancient times, people used to do this: when they sinned, they called an animal -- especially, you know, the goat of sin -- they'd load up all their sins, and they'd take him out in a ceremony, and they'd leave him on the mountain, and they'd think they'd get rid of their sins, and that's what you'd do. So you came back, and he did Ergenekon, Balyoz (stuff) and he did the constitutional referendum, he did the judicial independence, he brought the TİB Law on communication, he did the Hrant Dink murder, he did all the bad stuff. You said, "We're being manipulated." You said, "We're being manipulated." Well, what's now done after July 15th, so I'm curious to know who's been deceiving you about the operation of the Republican Journal, the export of leftist, democratic people. (CHEERING) Who's fooling you? A little conscience, when you put your head on the pillow, think about it. These KHKs are not decrees under the law. Look, even the Constitutional Court considers and evaluates the amendment in these ways, at least in a formal way, at least, the majority of votes, the majority of proposals and so on, but let alone in the form direction, let alone the evaluation, in other ways, our application, which is completely rejected, and these are not exactly the rules of law, but will be passed in this way, unfortunately, in our history of law. Now, we're very clear about all of this, we're saying that we support the fight against terrorism, the fight against terrorism, but do it in law, don't create new victims. And when we say that, we don't look at anyone's politics, like we always do. Then you try to link our party council declaration to terrorism, in your own way, you try to make us traitors, but we know what your country is. We know what your homeland is, and I send my greetings to the great master, poet Nazim Hikmet, inspired by him: If your country is your ships, and your homeland is your seat, and your country is a palace of a thousand and five hundred, we will continue to be traitors. If your country is to make the people poor, if your country is to keep the people poor, if your country is to put the people out of work, if your country is to slaughter nature, our future, our environment, we consider it an honor to be this traitor, I salute the General Assembly with respect.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0118par0520	Thank you. The country is one, undivisable. It's the rest of the country we're talking about. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0119par0523	The homeland is one of the sacred concepts for all of us. It's not appropriate to make the subject of such public political speculation; it's one. Secondly, ma'am, even on such common values, the AK PARTI may be a success, but this nation knows what the country is, and it shows it in every political way.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0118par0526	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm now reading the final motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that the declaration of documents regarding ship's service be added after the declaration of the gun licenses. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0120par0533	We commend you with the proper opinion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0118par0534	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0121par0535	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0118par0536	I'm reading the reason: The 10th amendment to Article 670 is intended to be reflected in the text of matter. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with the motions accepted, I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 3 that I read and process: To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the end of Article 3 of Article 3 of the Constitution under the State of Emergency 669. These deadlines cannot exceed three times the amount of time prescribed in the legislation since the day this law is in effect. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Saffet Sandzak Muharrem Varlı Baki Lightning Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After Article 3/15/7/2016 of the Court of Law No. 419 and 31/07/2016, we propose that an investigation of public officials who have been suspended on the basis of national security should be removed from the text of the substance during the state of emergency. Mustafa Hosni Bozkurt Yakup Akkaya Dursun Çiçek Faik Öztrak Text Lütfi Baydar Gamze Akkuş İngez Gülay Responsor Nurhat Altaca Kayşoğlu Tacettin Bayır Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0122par0562	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0118par0563	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0123par0564	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0118par0565	It's Bursa MP Orhan Sarıbal who wants a word on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0124par0568	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, September 12th fascism, came to this country after him to bring democracy, freedom, peace. Unfortunately, protecting the interests of imperials and a handful of rich people, the purpose of destroying all people in society, democracy, freedoms, patriots, instead, he began to prepare a regressive structure, a capital-based structure, a Turkish education that he would pursue international imperialism. Unfortunately, after the coup of September 12th, they didn't leave a patriotic, progressive, left-wing person in this country. In the end, he depoliticized this country, the community, and left politics to bankers, a handful of American literature. I'm afraid that spiral has been moved to this day and again. Let's identify this with the Fetullah Laughing Congregation, and connect it with them. Forty-six years of Fetullah Smiley story. As a result, he was given the most prize after the power of the AKP in 2002, of course, from the Kestanepazari Mosque to today, and owned a $25 million villa in Pennsylvania. I don't know how he got it, you know better. But what we do know, unfortunately, is that the Fetullah Gulen Congregation saw its truest support after 2002. It has been placed in the Armed Forces of the People, the Justice Department of the People, the public executive bodies, the National Education, the Ministry of Health. In fact, after his July 15 coup attempt, he said: "Ya, we didn't infiltrate the institutions of this state, we entered with the permission of the AKP's government, together we took the process. But, I object, and my objection is that I don't understand how so many of you, so many left-wing, so many Ataturkers, so progressive, have infiltrated our organization. But unfortunately, after the July 15 attempt, you began to wipe out all opposition in this country after the July 15 coup attempt you received as God's blessing, in order to remove members of the Fetullah Gulen Congregation or those responsible for the coup attempt from the state. The best thing you've done, unfortunately, is to immediately change the law. On July 21st, the State of Emergency, behind its back, and as part of the relevant Article of the KHK, which we're talking about now, you have removed the structure that should have been launched within ten days from the moment it was taken from the state office, which had previously been limited to ten days, arrested or not arrested. So we're going to investigate one day, but we're going to decide when this investigation is going to happen, how much it's going to happen. Tell me, all of you have a conscience, and you stand in this Veteran Assembly, and you have a responsibility to this community and to humanity, what kind of human rights clause do you keep a person out of work when you stop them from doing an investigation period and investigation period, is there such a legal order, is there such a human rights model? We haven't seen it, but it suits you. You know why it suits you? You never want Turkey to normalize. Why? Because when Turkey gets a little bit normal, as in June 7th, your votes will drop. Because then this country will talk about human real agendas, talk about unemployment, talk about poverty, talk about the traumas in education, talk about the monopoly on health, and talk about how you've been using people as a means of exploiting capitalism for a lifetime with the great success story you've presented to this country, unfortunately with those fascist practices. Unfortunately, we can't talk about any of this because you're putting the model of violence, fear, tears that you have, as a model of your own stay in power, as your model of sustaining power. Yeah, you have to do something, you have to face it, and you have to deal with it. As long as the Justice and Development Party does not face the July 15th night and the Fetullah Gulen congregation, this country will not be free from the Fetullah Gulen congregation or other congregations. So the best thing to do from here is that the Justice and Development Party and the President owe this country a reckoning and a confrontation. All they have to do is get out of this country's power and out of that palace and answer to the people and justice of this country. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0125par0575	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the end of Article 3 of the Law Act III of the measures taken under the current state of emergency 669. These deadlines cannot exceed three times the amount of time prescribed in the legislation since the day this law is in effect. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0126par0582	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0125par0583	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0127par0584	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0125par0585	Anthalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul will speak on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0128par0588	Mr. President, our country is surrounded by high-value lawmakers, honorable citizens, terrorists all around us, and the focus of winning our wells at every opportunity. We express every opportunity that the Veterans and the High Council must be one and one against the enemies of the interior and the outside. I hope that the current legislation, which is currently being held, under Code 669, will eliminate the terrorists within the Turkish nation and eliminate the possibility of any further hostility towards this nation. But it is important to know that we, the Turkish nation, are in danger. From those moments when tanks appeared on the bridges on the evening of July 15th, the Turkish nation patiently wondered who had been the council of the sultan in the dorm -- for a hundred and fifteen days now. It's been established that all of the coup attempts to reverse the coup and then take over the government in our country, and these individuals have been made a note of history. Despite our government's resources and capabilities, we are sad to see that the political profiles of the council of the peace council, which has led to the martyrdom of 241 citizens, have yet to be revealed. The fact that the coup was not brought to light by the prime staff and the accomplices at the tops of the state, and that the fight on the final rings of the coup attempt alone angers our citizens even more, and the perception that the coup attempt has profited on their part day after day. As the National Movement Party, we have repeatedly reiterated that any language that he understands about terrorism, including Å, must be fought. The hope of the great Turkish nation is that the fight will continue until the last terrorist's head is crushed or surrendered. Our president's friendship with terror has brought no good to anyone. I want to express his statements from here once again. I especially recommend that those who can't draw a line between terrorism and those who have failed to follow the same path should learn from it. I'd like to warn those who meet terrorists and their extensions at every turn, open up space, ignore their crimes, attempt to speak out to the Turkish nation with so-called universal facts, who point a gun at the Turkish nation. The PKK is a terrorist organisation, a terrorist organisation, a terrorist organisation of the PKK/YPG, an ISIS terrorist organization. I'm telling you clearly that every person, every group, every political party, every group, will be put in the same position as the terrorists, who have developed a common strategy with these groups, who talks about the opening, who provides so-called democratic support. Don't look at the dark clouds above our country, the despair of the darkest parts of the night. The darkest moment of the night is just before dawn. When dawn comes, our red flag will fly again. Our hearts will be filled with faith. When the dust falls, it will still be the Turkish nation that will rule this land. As Nihal Horseless said in his work before I stopped speaking: We came down from Mount God with the cry of Kurdistan, We deceived our soul from the source of the Orhun. Whoso drinketh of this spring, his heart becometh brass, It would be terrible to die if you put a shroud on the Turk. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0129par0600	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on Article 4 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added immediately and immediately to the first article of Article 4/1 of the Law Code 419, which will come after the declaration of "excellent state" and after the declaration of "courts." "2.) Regarding the demands for a postponement of bankruptcy in the period before the announcement of the state of emergency; A) There is no decision to postpone bankruptcy during the state of emergency. B) After the announcement of the state of emergency and the continuation of the state of emergency, no measures can be made, if issued, will be removed immediately. "C) The measures issued under Article 179/a of Law 2004 prior to the declaration of the state of emergency have been immediately lifted by Article 1371 on the basis of Article 1371 of the Penal Code, which has been decided to act against the national security of the state or by the National Security Council or by the structure, formation or groups of the government, or by the capital corporations who have been acting against the state's national security. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ömer Serdar Ramazan Can Sait Supreme Enver Fehmioğlu Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Hüsnuye Erdoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of Article 4 of the Law shall be changed as follows in Article 669 of the State of Emergency. (MADDE 4 (1) During the continuation of the state of emergency, there is no request for a postponement of bankruptcy by capital companies and cooperatives under Article 179 of the 9/6/1932 Article of the Enforcement and Bankruption Act 2004." Erhan Master Muharrem Varlı Deniz Depboyli Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Lightning Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4/7/2016 be removed from the text of Article 4/7/2016 and Article 669 of the Law Code No. 4/19. Dursun Çiçek Tacettin Bayır Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Haluk Pekşen Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Yakup Akkaya Text Lütfi Baydar Faik Öztrak Gamze Akkuş İngez Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0130par0634	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0129par0635	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0131par0636	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0129par0637	Mr. Peksen, are you going to discuss the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0132par0638	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0129par0639	Tripoli MP Haluk Pekşen will speak. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0132par0642	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I wish we could tell our citizens what was written in this motion and tell them one by one.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0133par0643	It's in the AKP's motion.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0132par0644	It's in the AKP's motion. When we talk about such a motion here, it is impossible to understand how people voted for the AKP. Look, if the AKP passes this motion, I'll tell you one thing, there will be chaos in the courts. The court has put a measure on the deed, the court has put a measure on the purchase, has put a measure on the car, has put a measure on the foreclosure; you remove it all. People break each other. Is that even possible? The court has taken a preemptive decision, which is protected by judicial decisions, and you are interfering with it and removing them. There's no such thing. You're removing the measures of the criminal court; without discrimination, you're removing the measures of the court, the court of execution, the court of commerce, all of them. Is that even possible? Where are you going to fit this? What extraordinary circumstances would that fit into? In the 138th article of the Constitution, the judicial decisions of Parliament were binding, binding, and establishing the judiciary. Where is it? What kind of proposal is that? I am removing the postponement of bankruptcy. You must do the opposite. You've bankrupted the country. In Kayseri, in Konya, in Malatya, in Gaziantep, in Adana, in Mersin, in Denizli, they are all on the brink of bankruptcy. We've warned you before, but we said, "Come on, get a law like this Istanbul approach, get it immediately, and let the firms structure their debt with this law." These banks stick to the throats of these companies. You've already screwed up the economy, you're gonna screw up the people, we said don't. When every man is unemployed, he will bring a big problem to the country's agenda. How did you get this? You put a bankruptcy delay in this motion, and we're moving it up. You're saying. Why? People may be wicked, yes, they may be wicked. But the firms are sinking, the banks are tracking their credits, the checks are being written, the bonds are being written. Unemployed, people out of work. Call whoever you want. I'm speaking to all my fellow citizens who have listened to me today, call any businessman closest to you, call any tradesmen, call any traders, ask them if they've fired in the last month. Then what does that mean? I remove the postponement of bankruptcy, and forbid it. Let the courts decide that. You rule on people's malice. It is not for you to judge except by yourselves, and you judge in their behalf. The 138th article of the Constitution was trashed. He said that there was a deputy Speaker of Parliament here. And I'm saying, thanks to you, Congressman, your party is still sending the Constitution to waste, but I assure you, citizens are writing it down, too. You came with the economy, yes, that's right, you continued your economic power until 2007. Yes, you did right or wrong, but the citizen congratulated you and rewarded you again for what you did, for being in power in 2007, for thinking you did good things in the economy, but after 2007, you fell into a big trap in that presidential election, and you're still drifting in that trap. Look, I'm particularly interested in repeating something from here that we warned you about. You're underestimating this story, and I don't believe you're struggling. You continue to fall into their trap. Tomorrow, in Turkey, you filed a criminal complaint against the Republican People's Party to expand the front of the protest, who knows who you'll attack tomorrow. It's a plus to be written on the front, on the account of every major misdemeanor you do. Don't do this, find the right men, judge the right men, and judge them with the right laws. Friends, people are tried for committing crimes, not for their intentions. Not because you want them to, but because they're breaking the law. Don't turn people against people, don't divide society. There's nothing to do with this extraordinary state of judgment in the law you've brought in here. We'll take this to the Supreme Court, of course. He'll come to the Supreme Court, he'll sign for it, we'll see all of his members here, we'll write it all down in history. If they do not accept this application, they will be historyd as a Supreme Court that has historically destroyed their country's Armed Forces in human history. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0134par0654	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of Article 4 of the Law shall be changed as follows in Article 669 of the State of Emergency. (MADDE 4 (1) During the continuation of the state of emergency, there is no request for a postponement of bankruptcy by capital companies and cooperatives under Article 179 of the 9/6/1932 Article of the Enforcement and Bankruption Act 2004." Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0135par0661	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0134par0662	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0136par0663	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0134par0664	Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu asking for a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0137par0667	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 4 of Article 669 of the Constitution. I salute you, our Veteran Assembly, and the mighty Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, the situation stated in our clause motion is that while the neutrality of our courts is already under suspicion, it is a strengthening factor in the victimization of our citizens. While the nation has no choice but to trust the state's courts in the pursuit of justice and no one in the scope of the State of Emergency can seek its rights in the courts, such decisions have a negative effect on our citizens, as well as their confidence in the state and justice. As our leader, Mr. State Gardener, stated today that confidence in the state is shaken, the biggest question mark is the identities of politicians on the peace committee at home. Whoever these people are, they need to be discovered immediately, and legal action must be done against them in exchange for the suffering that has been inflicted on our country and our nation. This way, our nation can see that justice is distributed equally to all by taking a comfortable breath, and that no one's protection prevents the country's interests. Likewise, our trust in our soldiers is indispensable to us. The coup attempt carried out on July 15, 2016 by officers of the Fetullahçi terrorist organization stationed within the Turkish Armed Forces is the reality of a treacherous plan aimed at destroying the republic, democracy, national domination. The Turkish nation is a soldier; it is a fact that has not changed from the past to the present. The Turkish Armed Forces are our honor. Unfortunately, our soldiers were also victimized in the painting that emerged because of what happened. The situation of our military students, who have all their hopes and who are waiting to sacrifice their lives for this country, is a disaster. At the same time, there is a situation in graduate degrees that does not qualify and closes the business doors for themselves. The Fetullahist terrorist organisation, which surrounds the vital organs of the state like cancer cells, has concentrated its efforts over the past 20 years to create its own staff in various ways and methods, in order to take over the Turkish Armed Forces. Terrorists, who are members of the National Guard and who serve as instructors in military schools, have committed brutal, demoralizing, illegal practices against patriotic military students within the army. In order to ensure the suspension of many military students, patriots, nationalists, Ataturk principles, the students were left helpless, charged with failure and disciplinary crimes. They've forced students targeted in military camps to drop out of school on missions that lead to physical and psychological torture. These students, who had to leave their beloved schools, suffered a great deal of injury, had to pay compensation, suffered financial and spiritual loss. Military students who have interrupted their studies, which we believe to be around 3,000, the victims of this issue, the victims of our children, the victims of our youth, need to be calculated. It's one of the things that we all agree is that every traitor who dares to point his weapon at the nation's will, anyone who tries to blow the nation's will, his extensions will be judged, and those who betray the country will receive the most severe punishment. The ability of those of our young victims to return to the Turkish Armed Forces or new national defence schools, which have no ties to the terrorist organization, will help to heal the wounds of our fellow patriots. Again, with military schools closed down, the hopes of their families and about 25,000 students who were educated in these schools have also lost hope. Is it possible to claim that all of these young people are members of the Party? And the straw mingles with the straw, and the tears burn along with the dry. How will this sacrifice be resolved? Closing our military high schools is not just a loss of education. These are our national, cultural, historical heritage, and we have to take care of it. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0138par0678	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to the same clause, "from the beginning and" to come after the declaration of your extraordinary state, after the declaration of the 419th Amendment, without any further investigation into the case." "2.) Regarding the demands for a postponement of bankruptcy in the period before the announcement of the state of emergency; A) There is no decision to postpone bankruptcy during the state of emergency. B) After the announcement of the state of emergency and the continuation of the state of emergency, no measures can be made, if issued, will be removed immediately. "C) The measures issued under Article 179/a of Law 2004 prior to the declaration of the state of emergency have been immediately lifted by Article 1371 on the basis of Article 1371 of the Penal Code, which has been decided to act against the national security of the state or by the National Security Council or by the structure, formation or groups of the government, or by the capital corporations who have been acting against the state's national security. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0139par0689	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0138par0690	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0140par0691	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0138par0692	I'm reading the motive...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0141par0693	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0138par0694	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0141par0695	Mr. President, we're not going to receive a speech, but we've just received a very unfair and inappropriate assessment of this motion. The meaning of this motion is a measure for companies associated with CHP terror organization who seek to smuggle goods and victimize creditors by resorting to crooked ways of bankruptcy. We believe the subject will be understood when the motion is read thoroughly. We're supplying.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0138par0697	Thank you. It is intended to reflect changes made in Article 673 on the text of matter. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 4th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 5 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The organization of the university is formed by the decision of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers, which is part of Article 5 (4) of Article 669 of the Law Article No. 3/07/2016 and Article 419." We offer and propose that his statement be removed from the text of matter. Dursun Çiçek Tacettin Bayır Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Mehmet All Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt Yakup Akkaya Metin Lütfi Baydar Faik Öztrak Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added after Article 5 (4) of Article 5 of the Law Against Precautions in the State of Emergency, which is currently being held. The university's settlement is previously established in the locations of Kara, Air and Naval Military Schools and Petty Officers' Schools of applied sciences." Erhan Master Muharrem Varlı Deniz Depboyli Mustafa Mit Baki Simsek Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0142par0722	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0138par0723	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0143par0724	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0138par0725	Ankara MP Mustafa Mit demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mit.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0144par0728	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the 5th Amendment clause of the State of Emergency, 419 rows 669 and the establishment of the National Defence University and the establishment of some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, the National Defence University is founded under the 5th Amendment to the rule of law. The university consists of new institutes, Petty Officers Colleges, in order to raise staff officers and provide graduate education with land, sea, air military schools. The Turkish army's officer is a positive and positive idea that the schools established to meet the need of a petty officer will be gathered under a university roof, and the officer joining the army will have academic discipline. However, as with many things, this issue is rushed without enough research, without review, without discussion. Although it is called a university, the necessity of a special vocational education is a known fact in the end. We're only qualified to make general assessments. First of all, with our experience in combat, we need to carefully examine the samples of the world and fill the gold. First of all, an army of national and spiritual emotions, with high morale, is the key element of our national security. Officer, training to raise a petty officer must be theoretical and practical in accordance with the requirements of the age. Following the world's developments, integration into education programmes should be considered the primary goal of the military's ability to provide the high moral and spirit required by taking advantage of theoretical, practical training experiences. As it is known, military service requires high discipline in the past and in the future throughout the world. We're taking advantage of the procedure. In the past, military education is based on every aspect of life, starting from the age of character, when good bad, right wrong concepts began to exist in the minds, when moral formation began. We hope that the issues we're trying to express here will be considered when the organization structure and education programme is being created. Dear lawmakers, the key position of soldiers and military personnel involved in the July 15 coup attempt, the main reason for this resolution, requires the search for measures to prevent such an attempt from ever happening again. It is, of course, the duty of the political institution and of our Parliament to seek a solution to avoid another coup. However, politics must be eliminated if politics does not enter the army that will work in its own discipline. In the definitions of tasks based on values defined in the Constitution and the laws, his internal control must be audited by the Ministry of National Defence. The different aspects of the Constitution and the laws, which do not comply with the objectives and mandates, are immediate suspension from the military. The experience of July 15th led to the rule of law and discipline not to be stretched by personal interpretations, or to be ignored by rules, which led to an understanding that dominated the military's administration. This system allows another state to gain access to the military, and that's what's happening in Turkey, and at the end of that, it says we're facing disaster, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0145par0739	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 31/07/2016 date and 419 in Article 5/4 of Article 669 under the Law Code. " (4) The university's organisation is formed by the decision of the Council of Ministers." We offer and propose that his statement be removed from the text of matter. Mehmet All (Fishesir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0146par0745	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0145par0746	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0147par0747	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0145par0748	It's Balıkesir MP Mehmet Alli who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. All.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0148par0751	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, we know that Mr. President and the Republican People's Party Assembly have been sued by the AKP and the President. However, those who have surrendered the state to the terrorist organization for 14 years have never been allowed to open such a case. This is nothing but a sense of petty thieves. Dear lawmakers, with the announcement of the State of Emergency, we have entered a new era. Where we come from -- it seems -- the government is looking forward to declaring the State of Emergency. The AKP uses the State of Emergency as an infrastructure to form its own regime. The government has wiped out the state of law through the State of Emergency and wiped out democracy altogether. Your natural leader once said: "Democracy is like a tram; we ride when necessary, we land when necessary. " Now we see you getting off the tram of democracy. But unfortunately, your landing is a stop of fascism, a dictatorship. Now, you want to silence those who oppose you by declaring you a member of the PKK or a member of the PKK because there is no other port for you to seek refuge. However, in the past, you have kept business with these organizations, walked together, joined forces with them; then you took advantage of them as partners, and now you are making use of them by making enemies. You have no problem fighting terrorism; if you had, we wouldn't have so many martyrs in our country, and so many of our people would not have died. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you know very well that this is not the right way to go. We would love for power to learn from July 15th. Unfortunately, you still polarize society and keep hatred and hatred alive. Your hatred and hatred are reflected not only in people but also in public institutions. You shut down the hospital, the doctor, the nurse, the medical staff-building Gulhane Military Medical Academy, and then you turned around and established the Coast Guard and Gendarme Academy, an armed force. You shut down military schools with a hundred years of history, then reopened them under the name National Defense University. You shut down schools, classrooms, and then you re-opened them with a new name. You fire public servants, then you rehire some of them, saying, "Excuse me." You're doing all of this using the State of Emergency with laws against the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there is no country that is governed by such a sabbatical. Do you really understand what you approve of? That's what we're wondering. If you're doing all this by digesting it, know that history will never forgive you. A thousand years of state tradition, a hundred years of Parliament experience, and all of this doesn't suit the republic. Unfortunately, you have turned this beautiful country into a tent state. Dear lawmakers, as you all know, the State of Emergency law does not foresee a permanent arrangement. Now, I ask you, is there anything of these regulations that isn't permanent? This clearly contrary to the Constitutional Court, unfortunately, is not considered by the Constitutional Court, which you created. These decrees, which will be passed here today, will be under the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, I hope from now on. Dear lawmakers, I don't find it very meaningful to talk about the clauses of the ordinances that we're discussing because they're all disabled, completely incompatible with the state of law, because whatever is in the AKP's secret agenda is being carried out by these laws. Dear lawmakers, when the AKP came to power in 2002, there were 3 provinces of the State of Emergency, and today you declared the State of Emergency in 81 provinces. You've been running the country for 14 years. You brought this country into the State of Emergency. We haven't been in power in 14 years. If you say, go out and admit it openly. Dear lawmakers, those who can't answer have no right to answer. If you really want to answer to the public, go out, your deputies, your ministers, and explain yourself to your mayors who are using the bylock, who have assigned the land to the land. You'll never get away with it, and you'll never get away with it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The death of the teachers and officers whom you have fired because they are not related to you. I'm saying, whatever law you decide, you can't escape justice. Thank you again, my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0149par0765	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0150par0766	Mr. President, for the record. Last week, the ministers who used the ByLock, explain the MPs. He himself declared such a sentence of judgment, and last week there was an argument about it. If the gentleman knows a name, let him come and explain it. There's no point in doing that.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0151par0767	We're almost there.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0150par0768	That kind of talk doesn't make politics. Politics has a way, a mind. It's good to pay attention to every word said.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0152par0769	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 6th article, so I'll have them read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the 419th Amendment be changed by the Minister in the article (1) of the 6th Amendment. Kamil Aydın Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Erhan Usta Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6/7/2016, which is currently in session, be removed from the text of the decree of Article 6/69 of the Court of Law No. 419, and date 31/7/2016. Dursun Flower Tacetti You're the Horseman Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Faik Öztrak Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Metin Lütfi Baydar Yakup Akkaya Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0153par0788	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0152par0789	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0154par0790	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0152par0791	Mersin MP Aytüğ Atı who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0155par0794	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding Section 669 concerning Article 6 of the Constitution. I salute the lawmakers who oppose the practice of extraordinary behavior, who have not cooperated with terrorist organizations in the past or today. Dear friends, it doesn't matter what you arrange with the 6th article. Even if you're building institutes at the National Defense University, the laws you've issued are all illegal. Remove this item in our proposal. In fact, we tell you this: 1) Remove the emergency application immediately. 2) Cancel the laws issued under the law immediately. We know you're enjoying the state of emergency. How do we know? The President said that this coup was a blessing from God. The coming point can be summed up in a sentence: your fight against the coup is an excuse, and staffing is fantastic. In the state of emergency and the rule of law, the provisions are in accordance with the Constitution. If it's not a lie, it's ignorance, ignorance. The Constitution says that the decree in the rule of law can only be related because of the state of emergency. Why did you declare the state of emergency? To fight the coupgers. So, I'm asking, did the EDUCATION-SENISTs do the coup, and you export hundreds of EDUCATION-SENs? Did the Health and Social Services Union make the coup, and you exported them? Did the signatory academics make the coup, and you exported them? Did the rectors do the coup and you've removed the chancellor's election? Did the students do the coup? The Gülhane doctors did the coup? The AKP continues to use coup law to its advantage, violating the Constitution. You do business with hatred, hatred and revenge. It's beneath government administration. The AKP's power is limited to only one section. The AKP's power cannot touch its own politicians. The AKP is afraid to touch them. No one's telling you not to fight the attackers. ByLock users are most likely........?...............................................?............?........?...........? Yeah. Explain it to me, for God's sake, to these bylock users.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0156par0800	How many times have they explained, Mr. Horseman? Let's not accuse anyone, please.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0155par0801	I'm proud of myself. I'm being picked on by an impartial Deputy Speaker.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0156par0803	But it is our duty to defend the rights and laws of all lawmakers. If you know a name, explain it to me.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0155par0804	If you'd been patient, you'd have listened to my advice. So, of course, since you're on the side, you're always trying to sabotage us, but for nothing, it's not gonna work. What we're suggesting is that a neutral IT company should come to Turkey, take a look at this bylock, and say, if you have a heart, if you have a heart, then these are the users of Turkey by Lock, these are they, these are they. What in God's name are you afraid of? There is only one reason why you fear: It will touch you, and it will touch the one whom you call number one, and you fear it, and there is nothing else. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, in the past, you collaborated with the Fetullahist terrorists. You resent us when we say so. Didn't you, brother? Didn't you walk along these roads together? You won't be able to justify yourself. The AKP government has negotiated with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in the past. You are angry with us when we say. Didn't you negotiate, brother, didn't you sit at the same table, brother, didn't you support them, brother? Go out there and say it. The AKP government noticed ISIS late, and when everyone called them terrorists, you called them angry Sunni teenagers. You resent us because we call them angry Sunni boys. For God's sake, didn't you? Get out, Davutoglu didn't say that. Say that. The AKP is fighting everyone it called "friend" in the past today. Today, those of you who are friends with the AKP, I call out to you with great importance: Surely the day of war with you will be near. Certainly, we are going through the days when Turkey needs CHP most, and we are aware of that, we will not submit to darkness.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0157par0811	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the 419th Amendment be changed by the Ministry in the article (1) of the 6th Amendment. Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0158par0817	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0157par0818	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0159par0819	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0157par0820	Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0160par0823	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Supreme Court of Law 669. I salute the High Council. Yes, there are many virtues that allow people to live together. Right now, especially, what we need most is the culture of living together and the culture of creation and continuation. But there is one that will create this culture of co-existence, one that will also provide the basis for the inconsistencies, the absence, the inconsequential problems. This is the notion of justice that sometimes its star rises, sometimes shakes, and sometimes falls. No virtue is as great and sacred as justice. Again, when we look at the basis of all the concepts of peace, equality, freedom, we can see that there is a concept of justice. But what we can say right now is that the idea that's being beaten the most is the concept of justice. Without justice, there's no meaning to others, no concept, no concept that holds society together. So, it really depends on whether or not societies can be integrated and achieve success, or dissociative. Now we see that this notion of justice is the most important concept that will keep us together and cause us to break apart. I wonder where we're at with that concept. Because justice is also the foundation of morality, there's no way there's a morality that's not based on justice. There's no way that justice that isn't interpreted in conscience can succeed. So, once the situation is resolved, we're all witnessing how important these concepts have become, as we just pointed out. That's what the Yenikapi spirit is for, that's what unity is for, to protect the unitary structure. From both the global scale and the local scale, we are going through a difficult time, and we accept it without question. The unity and integrity of this country are now more important than anything else. Turkey, in particular, needs to pay close attention to removing the trauma it experienced after July 15th. First, you have to figure out how we got to this point in order to remove this trauma. This need to be done by competent hands and in the form of long-term processes. What mistakes did we make? What were our openings? We need to question them. We need to do this together. I mean, if we all do it together, then we can succeed, but we don't have any mistakes. I think if we're insisted, when there's no mistakes, maybe, God forbid, the 15th of July will happen again. I mean, we didn't come here on our own. Of course, when you say these should be studied, it has sociological infrastructure, it has psychological infrastructure, it has economic infrastructure, it has administrative infrastructure. How are they prepared? From what gaps did the terrorist organization infiltrate and turn the country into this? What privilege was granted? For whom these privileges have been granted, for what reasons have they been provided, and they need to be worked clearly and clearly. If we're wrong -- God forbid -- together, we can face this attempt again in the same way, and we have to be very careful not to stay again. In this country, especially the administration has no right to be emotional. In this country, especially, we stress again that a government that feels the responsibility of the lamb on the edge of Fırat must be more careful. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0161par0831	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 7th article, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 7 of Article 7 of Article 669 from the text of Article (2) of Article 419, which is currently in session. Erhan Master Kamil Aydın Zuhal Topcu Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 7/7/2016, dated 31/7/2016, and sentence number 419, be removed from the text of the decree. Dursun Cicek Tacettidın Büyır Gamze Akkuş İgez Faik Öztrak Yakup Akkaya Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt Metin Lütfi Baydar Nuryat Altaca Kayşoğlu Gülay Responsor Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0162par0849	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0161par0850	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0163par0851	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0161par0852	İstanbul MP Gamze Akkuş İlgez asked for a statement on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, Ma'am, it was the Whitebird Illustration.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0164par0855	Mr. President, I have been promised to express my opinion in the State of Emergency Order 669. I salute your high council. Congressmans, along with the State of Emergency declared after the July 15 coup attempt, our country is governed by democracy in the rule of law. It's such a democracy that there's no responsibility to Parliament, no respect for human rights, no room for basic rights and freedoms, no accountability in front of the law, and no tolerance for opposition voices. However, whatever provocation Mr. Davutoglu does, whatever provocation he does, this free and democratic country will not face any more OHR-like practices. The State of Emergency of Turkey is the former Turkey. It has only been two years since its words. The point you've come to today, as you call it, is to call the old Turkey, and I'd like to remind you. Dear MPs, there has been an uninterrupted coup in Turkey since July 15th. Military high schools that have existed for centuries are closed overnight without discussion in the relevant commissions, without the opinion of institutions and experts. More than 5,000 students suddenly found themselves outside the door. The military schools were dedicated to national defense universities. If this is about building a democratic army, we want you to know that this method of yours is of no use to anyone. Why? You're shutting down military schools and military academys because there are students. However, are these the only schools that exist? Do you intend to shut down the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Interior, or the President of the Religious Affairs? Of course you don't. So, we're warning you now: if you bring politics into military schools, if you try to design military schools in accordance with your own ideology and demands, our country will face more dire consequences. It is not the same to be anti-inflicted and to be an DGI ally. We are as opposed to Turkey's democratic decision-making as we are to the fact that parliament has been shut down and the institutions have been rebuilt by the OHRK. Dear Regents, I am speaking now as a physician, not an MP: Look, you have closed down the GATA, another institution for 18 years, contrary to the Constitution, in one night. You've connected 33 military hospitals to 5,700 personnel to the Ministry of Health. Which Department of Health? To the Ministry of Health, where you exported nearly 5,000 of your staff due to their connection. What's changed, guys? GATA is no ordinary military hospital, but military medicine is a separate area from civilian medicine. All developed countries must have a military health system. Have you considered what will happen when this chain breaks in our country? In addition to medical training, you can only create chaos if you remove doctors who take military training under fire from the area they specialize in. With this decision, you eliminate military medicine, but you also ignore military surgery. For example, will you be able to send a civilian doctor to operations in a circle of fire that surrounds us today? How are you going to send civilian doctors, nurses, health workers to operations with no weapons, no gun, no field experience? I won't go. Are you going to cut off the salary of those who say "I won't go"? No, I'll send the doctors from GATA. If you say so, then what's the point of shutting down GATA? Look, we're warning you loud and clear: if you bury Gülhane in history, you can't assign any civilian doctor to the military team. And just because of that, no conscience can accept or account for the increase in our number of martyrs, no one can. In military hospitals, military personnel are the priority. You can prevent neither chaos nor martyr news. Look, we're already dealing with a situation that's turned into a ball of problems. Reports have come to the press that our military's shipping and treatments have not been done due to the intensity and waiting in line, and that the number of martyrs has increased due to the lack of attendings has also hurt us. Dear Regents, let's be realistic. This arrangement you've brought has nothing to do with the coup attempt. The age of these health care institutions is the last link in health care, which is imposed on the Change in Health Programme. Because the GATA is the last example of the healthcare practice in the field of social government, which does not really offer free health care, which does not consider its patient a customer, its staff a tradesman; you have buried it in history. Will you be able to account for the loss that has arisen, to make amends for the victim? Therefore I salute your high Council, saying that I am against this KHK, which you have brought.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0165par0866	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 7 of Article 7 of Article 669 from the text of Article (2) of Article 419, which is currently in session. Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0166par0872	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0165par0873	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0167par0874	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0165par0875	Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0168par0878	Mr. President, we have received a pledge on KHK 669, and we salute you all. Yes, as we've just said, especially when we're dealing with the terrorist organization that's on the agenda, it's good to do some careful work, think about it and talk about it. Because we have to be especially careful not to get old next to the dry. Because we all bear witness together to the moments when the victims rose too high and people were unable to buy bread in their homes. The state of the Republic of Turkey is a really big state, it has a deeply rooted culture, and it also has institutions, and each institution has its own culture, and we have a state culture. So, from this point of view, the people who have been victimized by claiming to be members of the PKK's terrorist organization need to be reconsidered. We say the criteria are set, these criteria need to be clear and clear. I mean, it's a big government. This government has intel. Who really is the one who lays the ground for it, builds the infrastructure, welds it or, you know, manages it, does it? All feet must be examined separately, including all areas and the political area. Indeed, those who are involved in this terrorist organization must be found and punished with the most severe punishment, but if anyone who does not feel that he does not feel that he is in this business, it is better to separate them one by one. For him, these criteria need to be made clear as soon as possible. In each published KHK -- we know -- we can see that thousands of people have been expelled from institutions or tried. For him, this must be dealt with at once. While not being clear, the criteria for mensubility were set for the terrorist organization, but we don't know exactly what it is. As we've just stated, they need to be sorted out and their actions are revealed. Of course, we can also see that these actions were the result of a savings by the foot that arrived on July 15th. In all matters, regulations under the rule of law are now making society nervous. The countries can't be ruled by palliative measures, the countries can't be ruled by morning decisions, especially by instant excitements, because tomorrow, what we're taking here in the form of KHK and enforcing here prepares the basis for other problems because it's taken immediately, because it's not thought out, and because it's causing too much damage, it's going to hit us again, like boomerang. Tomorrow, new Turkish Cypriots will come to the agenda to correct these legal decisions. So let's not get into this situation. Now, in this rule of law -- when we look at what we have -- there are measures that must be taken under extraordinary circumstances, and there are changes in various laws, but then we see that everything is there, and you can find everything you're looking for here. We've put everything we've seen into it that we've been angry about, and it's just a little bit of a problem, but we see that it's going to be a problem tomorrow. We're looking at so many different issues here, there's firings, there's education, there's opening colleges, there's connecting universities, there's hiring, there's reviewing staff, there's auditing, there's law, there's management. Now, with 115 articles in one KHK, you want to shape many institutions of the Republic of Turkey. How are you going to do that? Are you going to do it tomorrow by going another way with the KHK? The colleges were still a problem. We also want to say that the National Defense University, which is linked to the Ministry of National Defense with such practices, will also be a new problem. We pay our respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit03spe0169par0885	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0169par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 18th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will resume the talks of the Court of Justice in 419 rows. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Tanal, I give you my word for a minute according to the Civil Code 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0170par0008	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In our district of Ataşehir, Istanbul, the people of New Çamlıca have been fighting for drugs for four days. Drug use spreading like a tumor is increasing. The people of New Çamlıca continue their night shift to say, "Stop." In recent months, a nine-year-old boy was shot to death and two of our police were seriously injured because the gangs raided the house to harass the public. For that reason, the public's patience has been exhausted. We're inviting the Home Office to join us in dealing with drugs. I insist that all measures be taken, that people do not stand guard in the streets like this. My regards and regards.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0171par0013	Thank you. Dear friends, we were left with the 8th Amendment. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 13 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13/7/2016, dated 31/7/2016, and Article 419, be removed from the text of Article 13/69 of the Constitution. Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Dursun Çiçek Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Haluk Pekşen Gamze Akkuk İlgezdi Yakup Akkaya Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0172par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0171par0034	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0173par0035	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0174par0036	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0171par0037	I'm reading the reason: It is clearly contrary to Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution, since it cannot be described as the necessary subject of the state of emergency. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The 18th article (a) has a motion on it, and I make it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the decree shall be removed from the text of the decree, which is included in Article 18/7/2016 and Article 669 of the Law Code No. 419. Haluk Pekşen Dursun Çiçek Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Yakup Akkaya Tanju Özcan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0175par0054	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0171par0055	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0176par0056	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0171par0057	Am I making you read the reason, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0177par0058	Tanju Özcan will speak.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0171par0059	Of course, we couldn't pass on Mr. Tanju Ozcan. Mr. Ozcan will speak on the motion, please, sir. Mr. Bolu, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0178par0064	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first I thank Mr. President for his kind invitation, but hopefully, he won't give us three more games at the end of my speech because I told the truth.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0171par0065	If you play by the rules, you won't be punished, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0178par0066	Congressmans, I'd like to address the AKP MPs in particular, I'm afraid I've discovered something of yours. Every time you're told the truth from that stand, you get nervous, you get angry, but today I'm going to keep telling the truth from my point of view. Congressmans, it's been interesting, last semester Parliament, where we have friends who worked together in the 24th term. You started a process called the solution process, accusing us of being in front of this process all the time, and now you're like a coalition partner with the HDP Group protesting the Assembly today. You remember that, don't you? Before that, you set up courts in Habur, brought a court to the foot of a terrorist, you met with them in Oslo, you probably met with them in Imralı, and you agreed on this union in Dolmabahçe. Now, you've done all this, we've been exposed to your violence because we criticized them, we've even been threatened, we've been through it. You remember these, don't you? What happened after that? Time has passed, and you're negotiating with terrorist organizations. You said to those who said: "You are in arms with terrorist organizations, you are in arms with their allies." You even said that, and you even said that.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0179par0068	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0178par0069	Of course it's a lie. You should be afraid of God, and you should be ashamed of the servant. Clearly, you were flirting with terrorist organizations, and as a result, you're going far enough today to accuse those who oppose your date of being arm in arm with terrorist organizations. Look what you've done. During your days as an apprentice, you re-spoiled this PKK. When you came to power, there was no problem in the country. You've been a real pain in the ass in your caliphic era, and in 2010, he's made a picnic at this September 12th referendum. What did you do during your mastery period? You've given all kinds of support for the strengthening of this structure called ISHAD.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0180par0073	We got 50% of the vote.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0178par0074	What did you do during your last term? You've caused us trouble together, you've told us to come all together. Look, you're not sincere, you seem to be struggling today, so you can go back into negotiations with these organizations tomorrow. We don't trust you on this, and society doesn't. Look, we've got MPs here from MHP, they know my stance, my rhetoric, from the last period. Now, is this what you're trying to do, even the poor man called Å will deceive you, and you'll fool the MHP people in your mind? I'd like to address my fellow members of the MPHP, who, of course, have seen everything that's happened.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0181par0076	Don't talk to the MHP.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0182par0077	Look at you, look at the president.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0178par0078	Don't think they're actually fighting a nationalist, really separatist terrorist organization; they're fake nationalists, they're the ones who put all kinds of nationalism under the table.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0182par0079	Be decent, decent!
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0178par0080	I already know that you won't take them seriously, but I'm giving you a friendly warning that you don't even have to take them seriously and discuss them, because you know my sincerity.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0183par0081	You're the backyard.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0178par0082	Members of lawmakers, fight the ا: We've criticised it many times here, you're not fighting with it, you're not in a friendly fight. I'm afraid you've been renegotiated, that's my concern.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0184par0083	Get the fuck out of here!
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0178par0084	You know why I say that? You had enemies in common, opposition writers, newspapers like the Republic newspaper. What have you done now, you've started to fight your common enemies again because we're fighting the enemy.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0185par0085	First look at the city city of Muğla, and look at what you have given Zaman, and look at yourself.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0178par0086	You had a death row, you had a death row. You know what that means? You want extradition, you want extradition, don't you? You don't mean it. You say by bringing up the death row debate, don't give us these, the death penalty may come again in Turkey. You're giving a message.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0186par0087	You don't live in Turkey, do you?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0178par0088	You don't really want her and you don't want her followers. You're afraid of...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0187par0089	Speak to Sami the wise, and to Sami the wise.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0178par0090	What will we do if they come and talk? You're afraid they'll tell you what contract you're making together, who you're going after, what public institution you've infiltrated. Congressmans, our President -- our most impartial Mr. President -- gave a speech after July 15th, raised his hand as follows: "May God forgive us." Didn't he? And I pray every night after that talk, as a servant of the same God, and raise my hand to heaven, and say, 'Lord, forgive this servant of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has troubled us with this plague, who has revered the PKK, who has caused this plague of ISIS to trouble the world. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0188par0094	Come on, you're a dirty man!
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0189par0095	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 18th Amendment (a): those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0190par0097	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0189par0098	Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0190par0099	Mr. President, just for the record... The National Movement Party is one of the best-analyzing parties in Turkey's political life, acting on its principles, has its own stance. I want this on record. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0189par0101	Thank you. The 18th article (b) has a motion on it, and I read it and process it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the decree be removed from the text of the decree, which is included in Article 18 (b) under Article 18 of the Law Code No. 419, and 31/7/2016. Haluk Pekşen Dursun Çiçek Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Yakup Akkaya Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Elif Doğan Türkmen Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0191par0110	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0189par0111	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0192par0112	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0189par0113	On the motion, Adana MP Alderman Elif Doğan Türkmen Ma'am will speak. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Turkmen.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0193par0116	Mr. President, in 2002, when the AKP was alone in power, there was a hope of Turkey, where corruption would end in part of society, bans would be lifted, corruption would not happen, because the AKP promised our people that it would fight 3 Y. Let's go to 2016. For 14 years, the AKP has been alone in Turkey. The ruling AKP has introduced Turkey to more than 3 Y's in 90 years, let alone fighting, so that there are no 3 Y's. The women's right to live, the right to be on the street, hanging by a thread. Being a woman is like getting kicked alone. Being a woman is the same as having the right to kill your ex-husband. Child abuse and abuse are increasing. Turkey of the AKP does not meet the need to prevent them. He forbids access to the websites of news on this subject, just like Adıyaman Gerger. Adıyaman Gerger is unfortunately banned from access to the news reported at Imam-hatip High School as a result of the abuse and abuse of 30 children. In Turkey, children are abused and abused, but are young people better off? No. Of every five children who have finished college, three are unemployed, and those who have not finished university are already unemployed, and young people in Turkey unfortunately have a dark view of their future statistically. Dollars go by every day. The shopkeeper now has to close his shop, shut down his business. The farmer now finds a way to leave his product in the field because it's not worth the money. Where is the economy going? There is only one answer: the economy is not getting better. You have victimized thousands of people with their families, under the name of the struggle against the people. You fired the rest of the people who were left behind, fired the one who opened an account in his bank, fired the one who was a member of his union. So, I'm asking you, didn't you give this union permission to be legalized in this dorm? One more thing: didn't you cut the bank ribbon together? I mean, staying in the home, being a terrorist, being a terrorist, it means being fired, but for some reason, it's not considered a terrorist. It's possible to say the same for those who are members of the union, and for those who cut the ribbon of the bank, it's possible to say the same thing. Today, in order to end union life, you also fire teachers from your work, not enough, but enough -- what do you do? You banish teachers. You've shut down the schools where our army raises staff, soldiers, officers. Well, I'd like to ask you: there are thousands of people in national education and thousands in the police department. Will you also shut down schools that raise police, sir, teach teachers, or raise colleagues in other areas, or do you have only one goal? To serve that the international forces do not want a strong Turkish army? I just want to say one more thing: after June 7th, you wanted power alone to end the terror. It's been over a year since November 1st. Turkey, still, in a pool of blood, comes our martyrs every day. When will you keep your promise? Mr. President, there is law in Turkey, not cuckoo. One court, which arrested Ayşegül Terziz, released another, then held another court and released another court. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll leave it to your discretion: is there law in Turkey or is it cuckoo? We are ashamed to ask each other how are you these days? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Because a new answer came out: we're like Turkey. Yes, lawmakers, now we're all like Turkey. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0130	Thank you, Mr. Turkmen. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes on Article 18 (b): Those who accept... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There is a motion on the interim Article 13 of Article 20, which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the interim Article 13/07/2016 declaration be removed from the text of the decree, which is included in Article 20/69 of the Court of Law No. 419. Haluk Pekşen Dursun Çiçek Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Jacob Akkaya Gamze Akkuş İlgez Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0195par0142	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0143	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0196par0144	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0145	I'm reading the reason: The issue of the state of the Constitution, which is referred to in Article 121/3/3, is clearly in violation of Article 121 of the Constitution, since it does not qualify as a requirement. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the interim Article 13 of Article 20: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on the interim Article 14 of Article 20, which I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 14 of the Interim Article 14 of Article 20, which is included in Article 669 of the Law Code No. 31/7/2016 and 419. Haluk Pekşen Dursun Çiçek Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Jacob Akkaya Gamze Akkuş İlgez Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0197par0158	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0159	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0198par0160	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0161	I'm reading the reason: The issue of the state of the Constitution, which is referred to in Article 121/3/3, is clearly in violation of Article 121 of the Constitution, since it does not qualify as a requirement. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the interim Article 14 of Article 20: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 21 that I'm having read and processed... it's been suggested. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. So the materials on the first section are complete. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter includes Article 1, supplemental article 2, additional matter 3, additional matter 4, additional matter 5, additional matter 6, additional matter 7, additional matter 8, additional matter 9; Interim Articles 1 and Article 2 of Article 42, and Article 49 (also referred to as Article 2). There's no talk on chapter two. No questions, no answers. The talks on chapter two are complete. Switching to section two material. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Those who accept Article 30... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 31... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 32 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of Article 143, which is included in Article 32 of the Law Code 419, is removed from the text of the article. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ömer Serdar Sait Supreme Enver Fehmioğlu Hüsnuye Erdoğan Ramazan Can Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0199par0195	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0196	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0200par0197	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0198	I'm having him read his motive: The amendment to Article 671 is intended to be reflected. I submit to your votes the motion that the commission has passed, the government has joined, and I have given you the reason: those who agree... Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit Article 32 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1324 of Law 1324, which has been replaced by Article 33 of the Law Code 419, which is currently in session, be removed from the text of the article "In Peace." Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ömer Serdar Sait Supreme Enver Fehmioğlu Hüsnuye Erdoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 33/7/2016 be removed from the decree text of Article 33 of the Constitution of 669, which is currently in session, date 31/7/2016, and row 419. Dursun Çiçek Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Yakup Akkaya Faik Öztrak Tacettin Bayır Metin Lütfi Baydar Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0201par0221	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0222	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0202par0223	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0224	I'm having it read. It is clearly contrary to Article 121/3 of the Constitution, since it cannot be described as "the subject of the extraordinary state which is necessary." I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1324 of Law 1324, which has been replaced by Article 33 of the Law Code 419, be removed from the text of the article in Article 1 of Peace. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0203par0233	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0234	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0204par0235	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0236	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 671 is intended to be reflected. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes Article 33: Those who accept... those who refuse... the clause is accepted. There are two motions on Article 34, which I will have read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 2 of Law No. 1324, which has been replaced by Article 34 of the Law Code No. 419, which is currently in session. "The head of the General Staff, under the condition that the duties of the National Ministry of Defence remain hidden, determines the principles and priorities of staff, intelligence, action, organization and educational services in preparation of the armed forces for war. A) allows intelligence, action, organization and training services to be implemented through the Black, Deniz, Air Force Commands and the General Staff. B) Staff services are conducted according to their special laws. The principle he sets up for logistics and supply services is to inform the Ministry of National Defence, which will run these services, with recommendations on priorities and primary programmes and training and teaching services in military schools." Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ömer Serdar Ramazan Can Sait Supreme Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Law No. 31/07/2016 dates and 419 rows 669, under Article 34/24 of the Constitution. The clause has been changed in the following way. We request and propose that the declaration be removed from the decree text. Mustafa Hosni Bozkurt Dursun Çiçek Faik Öztrak Metin Lütfi Baydar Tacettin Bayır Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Yakup Akkaya Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0205par0264	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0265	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0206par0266	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0267	I'm reading the reason: It is clearly against Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution, since it does not qualify as "necessary state," which is stated in Article 121/3 of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 2 of Law No. 1324, which has been replaced by Article 34 of the Law Code No. 419, which is currently in session. "The head of the General Staff, under the condition that the duties of the National Ministry of Defence remain hidden, determines the principles and priorities of staff, intelligence, action, organization and educational services in preparation of the armed forces for war. A) allows intelligence, action, organization and training services to be implemented through the Black, Deniz, Air Force Commands and the General Staff. B) Staff services are conducted according to their special laws. The principle he sets up for logistics and supply services is to inform the Ministry of National Defence, which will run these services, with recommendations on priorities and primary programmes and training and teaching services in military schools." Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0207par0281	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0282	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0208par0283	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0284	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 671 is intended to be reflected. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 34th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 35 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1325 of Law 1325, which has been replaced by Article 35 of the Law Code 419, which is currently in session, shall be replaced as follows by Articles 1 and 3 of the Law. "The ministry is composed of the General Directorate of Military Justice and Laws, General Directorate of Military Justice and Laws, General Directorate of Military Justice and Laws, General Directorate of Staff, General Directorate of Budgets and Financial Services, Logistics General Directorate, Public Directorate of Supply Services, General Planning and Principles General Directorate, General Plan and Principles General Directorate, Department of Law Ministry, Office of Information Systems, Office of Support Service, Office of Military Justice Board of Directors, Department of Justice and Technical Services, and other commanders. The headquarters have vice-presidents and office heads, which will not exceed two or six. The ministry also has the Office of Chief of Staff and Ministry of Public Affairs with the Office of Press and Public Relations and the Ministry's Counsellor, who will not exceed 30." "In exchange for the ranking of members of the ministry's headquarters in the Turkish Armed Forces, he is a general for the undersecretary, general for the Director of the National Defence University, Lieutenant General for the Undersecretary, Vice Chief of the Board for the Investigation Board and General for the Chief of Staff and for the heads of the future departments, he is a colonel for the heads of the departments. Those assigned to these staffs take advantage of public housing and military social facilities in exchange for ranking officers. The same is the basis for the regulation of military protocol relations." Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ömer Serdar Ramazan Can Sait Supreme Hüsnuya Erdoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0209par0302	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0303	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0210par0304	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0305	I'm reading the reason: The amendments to Article 674 and 676 are intended to be reflected by KHKs 2 September 2016 and by the Council of Ministers' Decision 2016/9182 published in the Official Gazette 29819. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 35th article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 36 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 31/7/2016 date and the 419th row 669 of the Law Code under Article 36 (1325) of the Law. Subsequently, the following 1/A clause is added." We offer and propose that his statement be removed from the decree text. Dursun Çiçek Tacettitın Bayır Yakup Akkaya Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Faik Öztrak Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Metin Lütfi Baydar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0211par0320	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0321	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0212par0322	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0323	I'm reading the reason: It is clearly contrary to Article 121/3 of the Constitution, since it cannot be described as "the subject of the extraordinary state which is necessary." I submit to you the motion of Dursun Flower and his friends, those who agree... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 37 that I'm having read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the following amendment of Article 37 of the Common Code of Law 419. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Nazim Mavis Hasan Basri Kurt Hüseyin Uzbayır The first joke of Article 37-1325 of Law No. 37-1325 (a) has been added to the "social," following the declaration of "the military schools (the military schools and petty universities) education," added, adding the same joke (b) to the subcommittee (1), "in peace and war" and added to the following joke. "3) Military factories and shipyards include military industrial services," "ίng) Investigation, investigation and investigation services, It's to make it work." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0213par0340	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0341	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0214par0342	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0343	I'm reading the reason: The article aims to reflect changes made by KHKs 671 and 676. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 37th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 38... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 39... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 40th article... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 41 of EK MADDE 1... those who do not accept... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 41... of the EC MADDE 2... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 41... of the EC MADDE 3... those who do not accept... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 41 of the EC MADDE 4 of the article... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 41 of the EC MADDE 5 of the article... those who do not accept it... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 41 of EK MADDE 6 of the article... those who do not accept it... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 41... of EK MADDE 7... those who do not accept... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 41... of EK MADDE 8... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 41 of EK MADDE 9... those who do not accept... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 42... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 42... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 43... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 44... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 45... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 46... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 47th article... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 48... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 49... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, negotiations and articles on the second chapter are completed. We're starting negotiations on section three. The third section covers between 50 and 79. No one wants a word on chapter three. No questions, no answers. Those who accept the 50th article... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 51st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 52nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 53 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 54 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 55th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 56th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 57th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 58 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 59 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 60th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 61 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 61 of Article 61 of the Law, number 699, and date 31/07/2016, and row 419, be removed from the text of the decree. Dursun Çiçek Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Metin Lütfi Baydar Faik Öztrak Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0215par0395	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0396	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0216par0397	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0398	I'm reading the reason: It is clearly against Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution, since it does not qualify as "necessary state," which is stated in Article 121/3 of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 61st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 62 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of Article 62 of the Constitution No. 699, number 419, and the date of 31/07/2016, which is currently in session, be removed from the text of the decree. Dursun Çiçek Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Metin Lütfi Baydar Faik Öztrak Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0217par0413	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0414	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0218par0415	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0416	I'm reading the reason: It is clearly against Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution, since it does not qualify as "necessary state," which is stated in Article 121/3 of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 62nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 63 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 63/7/2016 be removed from the decree text of Article 63 of Article 669 of the Law, which is currently in session, date 31/7/2016 and row 419. Dursun Çiçek Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Metin Lütfi Baydar Faik Öztrak Tacettin Bayır Nuryat Altaca Kayşoğlu Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Yakup Akkaya Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0219par0433	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0434	I'm reading the reason: The issue of the state of the Constitution, which is referred to in Article 121/3/3, is clearly in violation of Article 121 of the Constitution, since it does not qualify as a requirement. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 63 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 64 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 64/7/2016 from the decree text of Article 64/69 of the Court of Law, which is currently held on 31/7/2016 dates and 419 rows. Dursun Çiçek Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Metin Lütfi Baydar Faik Öztrak Tacettin Bayır Nuryat Altaca Kayşoğlu Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Yakup Akkaya Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0220par0451	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0452	I'm reading the reason: The issue of the state of the Constitution, which is referred to in Article 121/3/3, is clearly in violation of Article 121 of the Constitution, since it does not qualify as a requirement. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 64th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 65th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 66th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 67th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 68th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 69th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 70th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 71st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 72nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 73 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 74th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 75th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 76th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 77th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 78th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 79th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Thus, the talks on the third section are complete. Now, let's begin the talks of section four. The fourth section covers Articles 80 to 105. No one wants a word on chapter four. No questions, no answers. We're starting to discuss your substances. I submit the 80th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 81st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 82nd Amendment to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 83 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 84 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 85 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 86, I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 86/7/2016, which is currently in session, be removed from the text of the decree of Article 699 of the Constitution No. 419, date and order 419. Dursun Çiçek Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Metin Lütfi Baydar Faik Öztrak Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0221par0494	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0495	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0222par0496	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0497	I'm reading the reason: It is clearly against Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution, since it does not qualify as "necessary state," which is stated in Article 121/3 of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 86th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 87, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 87 (87) be removed from the provision of Article 87 of the Law, which is currently in session on 31/07/2016 dates and 419 rows. Dursun Çiçek Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Metin Lütfi Baydar Faik Öztrak Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0223par0512	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0513	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0224par0514	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0515	I'm reading the reason: It is clearly against Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution, since it does not qualify as "necessary state," which is stated in Article 121/3 of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 87th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Those who accept 88... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 89... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 90... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 91... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 92... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 93... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 94... those who do not accept... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 95... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 96... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 97... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 98... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 99 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 99 of the Law Code No. 669, which is currently in session, date 31/7/2016, and number 419, be removed from the text of the decree. Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Dursun Çiçek Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Yakup Akkaya Faik Öztrak Tacettin Bayır Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Metin Lütfi Baydar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0225par0541	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0542	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0226par0543	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0544	I'm reading the reason: It is clearly contrary to Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution, since it cannot be described as the necessary subject of the state of emergency. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 99th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 100th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 101st article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 101 of the Article 101 of the Law, No. 669, and 31/7/2016, and 419. Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Dursun Çiçek Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Yakup Akkaya Faik Öztrak Tacettin Bayır Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Metin Lütfi Baydar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0227par0560	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0561	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0228par0562	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0563	I'm reading the reason: It is clearly contrary to Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution, since it cannot be described as the necessary subject of the state of emergency. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 101st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 102, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 102 of the Constitution, number 669, and date 31/7/2016, and row 419, be removed from the text of the decree. Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Dursun Çiçek Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Yakup Akkaya Faik Öztrak Tacettin Bayır Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Metin Lütfi Baydar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0229par0578	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0579	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0230par0580	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0581	I'm reading the reason: It is clearly contrary to Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution, since it cannot be described as the necessary subject of the state of emergency. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 102 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 103 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 103 of Article 103 of Article 669, dated 31/7/2016 and number 419, be removed from the text of the decree. Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt Dursun Çiçek Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Faik Özturk Gamze Akkuk İlgezdi Yakup Akkaya Gülay Reservist Tacettin Bayır Metin Lütfi Baydar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0231par0596	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0597	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0232par0598	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0599	I'm reading the reason: It is clearly contrary to Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution, since it cannot be described as the necessary subject of the state of emergency. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 103 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 104 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We submit and propose that the following joke be added to Article 104 of the Law Rule 419 which is currently in session. The rights and obligations of educational institutions closed under the first joke will be transferred to the Ministry of National Defence without further processing. Contracts signed to provide the needs of these places can be annulled by the Ministry of National Defence or reduced the amount of work mentioned in the contract, given the ongoing needs. For these reasons, no compensation is paid to the contractor. Guarantees for terminated contracts are returned and no bans are made on the contractor. These jokes can also be applied regarding contracts involving the needs of Kara, Deniz and Air Military Schools and Petty Officers' universities of applied sciences. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ömer Serdar Sait Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Enver Fehmioğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0233par0615	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0616	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0234par0617	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0235par0618	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0619	I'm reading the reason for Naci Bostancı and his friends' motion: The amendment to Article 670 is intended to be reflected in the changes made by the KHK. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes Article 104: those who accept... those who refuse... the clause is accepted. There's a motion on Article 105, I'll read it and process it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the paragraph (2) of Article 105 of the Law Code, which is currently in session 419. In cases that have been opened, judicial costs and power of attorney are not allowed to be ruled, and those who have been ruled are not collected. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Hasan Basri Kurt Ramazan Can Muhammad Mufit Aydın Halil Eldemir Osman Mesten Hüsnuye Erdoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0236par0635	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0636	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0237par0637	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0638	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 670 is intended to be reflected in the changes made by the KHK. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 105... those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Thus, the talks and voting of articles on chapter four have been completed. Now, let's begin the interviews of section five. Chapter 5 contains articles 106 to 115. Anybody want a word on chapter five? No. Question-answer? No. There are two motions on the 106th article, which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the budget of the Ministry of Health budget of the Ministry of Health shall be changed in the form of the budget of the Ministry of Health and/or its subsidiaries. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Hasan Basri Kurt Ramadan Can Halil Eldemir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 106 of the Court of Justice, No. 669, and 31/7/2016, and 419, be removed from the text of the decree. Dursun Çiçek Tacettin Bayır Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Mustafa Hosni Bozkurt Yakup Akkaya Metin Lütfi Baydar Faik Öztrak Gamze Akkuk İngez Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0238par0666	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0667	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0239par0668	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0194par0669	İstanbul MP Dursun Cicek will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Flower. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0240par0673	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we are here today to hold a historic hearing on the Turkish Armed Forces. The command unit is a principle of war. How this principle is violated, how the experience of hundreds of years has been ignored, we all live here together. Of course, in my life, there is something important in the lives of Mustafa Kemal. I believe the previous Parliament, in 2009, handed over Mustafa Kemal's soldiers, the Republican, Ataturkist officers in one pen, to the prosecutor-like militants, as you call them, in one night. Now all responsibility is in the ruling party group, the National Defence Department and the National Defence Commission. Later, we will go to the Constitutional Court and make them partners in this responsibility, where we will demand that the issues that have not been corrected be corrected by the Constitutional Court. The command union is so important that we unfortunately see its strategy as part of the strategy policy of China, divided and directed by the rule of law. Of course, China used it against its enemy, against the Turks. Now what do we do? We're trying to divide and conquer our own army, and fight the same army, terror. We say, "Save Turkey's interests in Syria, Iraq." We don't trust it. We're giving you a job, we're saying be a martyr, we're saying be a gazi, but we don't trust you, so wait behind the door. It's not conscientious, it's not legal, it's not political. Now, you've tortured us for five years to get us to accept a signature we haven't signed in the past. The ruling party in this case still hasn't withdrawn from the Ergenekon case. Despite the fact that these cases were staged, the AKP is still in the file known as wet signature. It's insincerity, hypocrisy. Now, the state has its basic institutions: legislation, execution and judgment. Now the judgment is on the floor, most suspects, defendants. Legislature has been rendered ineffective by law enforcement decrees. The police are trying to stand up to the Turkish Armed Forces. The state was destroyed, the state of law violated. Now, what are we going to run democracy, the state of law, the constitutional state with? The Armed Forces want to stand up, and with these measures we've taken, with the laws adopted in Congress today, we're turning the state of emergency into a state of emergency, in peace, in war, we're handing over all power to the Secretary of Defense. With what experience, with what strategy information, with what military information, history will show it. History, of course, will judge this House, the House that made this decision. 25,000 military students signed with the state, signed to become officers, to become petty officers, to become military doctors. We get tens of thousands of pounds of compensation from these families when they break the contract. Now, the same government puts the same government at the door. You take care of yourself. I don't know you. That's no state of law, that's no politics. Chief of General Staff Ilker Başbug stressed in his speech at Parliament and at the Supreme Court that there are three responsible in the July 15th plot against the armed forces. The first was the foreign forces, the United States, the CIA, Mossad; the second was the political power; the third was the political power. Now today, political power betrays its nation with these decisions passed by Parliament, betrays its history, the Turkish Armed Forces. I say appreciation belongs to the great Turkish nation, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0241par0683	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0242par0684	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0241par0685	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0242par0686	I understand the criticism, but we absolutely reject the word "betrayal." For the record.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0241par0688	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0243par0689	There is a victim. We also reject the one who says "betray," and the one who says "traitor." There's a victim. We call him "the victim." You say "the traitor."
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0241par0690	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the budget of the Ministry of Health budget of the Ministry of Health shall be changed in the form of the budget of the Ministry of Health and/or its subsidiaries. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0244par0695	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0241par0696	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0245par0697	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0241par0698	I'm reading the reason: In the current law order, the 106/th amendment to Article (4) of the decree is being made according to the amendment to the 670th KHK. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 106-alth article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There is a motion on Article 107. Since the proposal passed 500 words on Article 107, the summary of the motion will be read under Article 87 of the Civil Code, and the whole motion will be added to the report. The full text of the motion has also been distributed to political party groups. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly [[X]] In accordance with the 419th Amendment, we propose and propose that the 107th Article of the Law shall be changed in the following manner, and the following jokes shall be added after the 4th joke, and the last one shall be identified according to this. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Abdurrahman Öz Abdullah Ağralı Halil Eldemir Hasan Basri Kurt Hüsnuye Erdoğan Gökcen Özdoğan Enç A) The monthly indicator, the additional indicator, the additional indicator, the senior monthly, the base monthly, the increase, compensation and additional payment or health care compensation payments (based on a fixed value under the law of State Officers No. 657; the monthly indicator on which they are assigned to post-accession positions, the additive, the minimum monthly allowance, the basis salary, the increase, the compensation payment, and the difference in the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sums of the sum of the sum of the sum of the amount of the amount, or the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the payment, and the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the state services. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0246par0719	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0241par0720	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0247par0721	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0248par0722	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0241par0723	I'm reading the reason: The following law shall be regulated according to the amendments and amendments made by KHK No. 670 and 675. I submit to your votes the motion of Naci Bostancı and his friends, whose reasons I have made read: those who agree... Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the number 107: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit Article 108 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. All those in favor of Article 109... Those who don't... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 110 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 110 of the Court of Justice of Law 419 be removed from the text of the Law. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Osman Mesten Muhamet Mufit Aydın Halil Eldemir Hasan Basri Kurt Hüsnuye Erdoğan Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0249par0740	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0241par0741	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0250par0742	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0241par0743	I'm reading the reason: Since KHK No. 668 is no longer needed after the change, it must be removed from the text in order to avoid falling back. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 110th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 111... those who do not accept... are accepted. Those who accept Article 112... those who do not... are accepted. There is a motion on Article 113. Since the motion passed 500 words on Article 113, the summary of the motion will be read under Article 87 of the Civil Code, which will be added to the entire report. The full text of the motion has also been distributed to political party groups. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly [[X]] We propose and provide a change in Article 113 of the Law Act 419, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Muhammet Mufit Aydın Hüsniye Erdoğan Ramazan Can Osman Mesten "The following Article 13/A was added after Article 13 of the Law 113-2803. "Jandama and Coast Guard Academy Article 13/A has been established as an institution of higher education, education, education and training, scientific research, publishing, faculty, institutes, petty officer universities, education and courses in the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior and Coast Guard, to meet the needs of officers and staff of the police and other staff of the Coast Guard. The academy's needs will be met by the General Command budget. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0251par0766	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0241par0767	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0252par0768	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0241par0769	I'm having him read his motive: It is intended to reflect changes made by the KHKs 674 and 676. Yes, Mr. Naci Bostancı and his friends' motion to vote: those who agree... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit Article 113 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the clause is accepted. I submit the 114th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 115th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in section five are completed. Before they all vote, the Commission has a request for a reduction. Here you go, Mr. Commission.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0253par0779	Mr. President, there is a request to adopt the name of the amendment proposed by the General Assembly to be adopted in accordance with the amendment proposals adopted by the General Assembly, to take some precautions in the Supreme Hall of State and to change the Constitution of National Defence University and to change the Law by the Constitution. I respectfully offer your appreciation.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit04spe0241par0780	It's on the record. It will be considered during the writing of the law. Thus, it is completed with the clauses of negotiations on the entire rule of law. The ruling under the law is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Under the State of Emergency of 669 and the establishment of the National Defence University and the establishment of some Laws under open vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 220 [[X]] That way, the decree of the law has been passed, and I'm saying good luck, and I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0241par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 18th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin the talks of Turkey's Grand National Assembly of Turkey (Secretary of Turkey), which is ranked in the 2nd place, in accordance with Article 128, and of the Constitutional Court of Justice (1/756). The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 421 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this decree shall be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the decree in the law shall be discussed in sections after all talks on them are agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters shall be voted separately. Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, who is seeking the full word on the rule of law. Here you go, Mr. Parsak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0254par0011	I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Actions for the State of Turkey to decide on the State of Emergency Act No. 671. On this occasion, I salute you all. Respected lawmakers, I would like to share my thoughts as part of these practices under the State of Emergency Act of Emergency and, in particular, the provisions of the Law, before I take my words to the State of the State of Emergency. As it is known, on July 15th, we encountered one of the greatest betrayals of our history, and Turkish democracy faced a coup attempt in this framework. In that sense, by the time we reached the bombing on this great roof, a great betrayal appeared in front of us. Honourable lawmakers, in the framework of this extraordinary era, the main reason for the announcement of the state of emergency, of course, of the coup attempt on this July 15th democracy, on the occasion of extraordinary circumstances, but regardless of the fact that the state of emergency is limited to the law, in this framework, we have shown our position from the very beginning as the Nationalist Movement Party. Indeed, the state of emergency is a constitutional institution. In this sense, the framework for this is drawn between the 119th and 122nd articles of our Constitution. The state of emergency is also regulated by a law, and it is clear here in detail how the procedure should be done. We, the National Movement Party, have supported the apocalypse of the extraordinary state in order for the administration to fight a more rapid, more efficient fight at the time it should be. In this sense, it is also an inevitable fact that the decisions of the state of emergency in the rule of law should be issued in this sense, but that the provisions of this state of emergency are fundamentally limited to the law, and that the provisions of our Constitution, as a normative arrangement under it, should be in accordance with the laws of the State of Emergency, which are in accordance with the Law of Emergency, in accordance with the Law, and should be in accordance with the laws of the Constitution. Is this the way the applications were made? There are very serious questions about the laws, the laws, the Constitution, the laws that I've just listed in the court of law regarding the state of emergency in this sense, if they've been enforced in accordance with them. In this area, there were issues that were significant, serious, and historically noted, both within the framework of law and within the scope of the State of Emergency Act, number 421, number 671. I'm going to try to put this in general terms right now. Honourable lawmakers, the State of Emergency Law Act No. 671 has ordered the Air Force to provide pilots from civilian resources to 18 years of mandatory service, the relations of military pilots with the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the changes in election criteria of the Chief of Staff, the closure of Telecommunication Communication Presidency, the transfer of mandate, the transfer of power and staff to Information Technologies and Communication Agency, the transfer of the age of professors to 75 Levels of the age of retirement, the changes in terms of the region's administrative court of accession, and the adoption of transports and licenses of suspected and defendants. In accordance with this decree, we, the National Movement Party, would like to stress the following in particular: First of all, the condition of being a Joint Chief of Staff in order to become Chief of Staff under the law has been lifted. In other words, it is important to consider the fact that anyone who has the rank of Oreneral or Admiral should be appointed as Chief of Staff without being a military commander. Political power has apparently forgotten to make necessary changes in the duties and powers of Chief of General Staff 1324 in the earlier amendments to the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act on July 25, 2016, and Law Code 669. The fact that a man who did not serve as Joint Chiefs of Staff may not be in favor of the military chain of command, aside from the fact that he had served as a military commander, is a delicate situation where he could become a candidate for every general and oramiralin, chief of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, without being asked to act as a force commander. With this arrangement, there is no doubt that the proclivities of the general and admirals, who want to become Chief of Staff, will increase with the possibility of being politically motivated and close to the ruling party. The government, unfortunately, is looking for new ways to do so, not only to compensate for its shortcomings in matters such as "disappointment" and "property," but also to prepare the legal infrastructure of working with unreliance and non-compliance in every part of the public. With this arrangement, a general or admiral, who was just under the command of his own military commander yesterday, will be able to be appointed as Chief of Staff in a day's time as head of his own military command. This will provide a secret immunity to the oreneral and admirals, especially with political connections, and the Joint Chiefs will feel obliged to approach these generals under their command more carefully, so to speak. The current commander of the Turkish army, which dates back to 240 B.C.E., is known for its courage, skill and heroism to the world in every century, is the Chief of Staff. The Chief of Staff is the heir to Godkut Mete Khan. It is never acceptable to open the way for the most suitable person in Mete Khan's position to be elected with political opinions. The consequences of politics entering the military, especially the Turkish nation living so heavily during the Ottoman period, cannot be sentenced to the same cache again. Members of parliament, another important amendment to the Armed Forces through the decree of the law is the presence of the Ministry of National Defence in the war as well as the peace of the forces, or the Ministry of National Defence. This arrangement brings with it the limited ties of our military commanders to the Chief of Staff, even in the event of war, which is an indication that our army, our military, is not trusted enough. Our armies are the tireless guardians of the Turkish nation's borders, trust and integrity. In the lightest expression of political power, it's actually a stain on political power, not on the Turkish army, but on a part of the treacherous entity that has been leaked directly to the top of the Turkish army. Therefore, the Turkish army cannot be punished, weakened, coordinated, and the chain of command cannot be broken. The Turkish army is not a group of traitors who dream of coupting the Turkish state at every turn, but a martyr's tent, which is the Prophet's hearth, which is an oath to protect the Republic of Turkey from any danger. Those who believe that there will be problems with the commitment of military commanders to the Chief of Staff in the war are looking at the possibility that the Turkish army will attempt a coup even under the threat of a foreign army. Neither the Turkish army nor the Turkish nation will ever be able to handle this suspicion, to digest it. Unfortunately, the error of these decisions today will be better understood tomorrow - God forbid - when faced with a violent war situation. Respected lawmakers, the same arbitrary and unpredictable understanding shows itself once again when the mandatory service of our pilots in our Air Force has been extended to 18 years. It should not be expected for those who think of dying as "loved" or "enjoying" to do their duty, to know the situation facing pilots in the Air Force, but jet piloting is nothing like being a minister, an undersecretary, a general manager. It's not a place for soldiers to lie down. It's a matter of justice to think about how those who say: "The consequences of the coup are all upon the soldier." Those who have ended the education of the cadets who have not been involved in any incidents in Ankara on July 15, 2016, leaving them with their hands tied up for hours without food and water, not even sending them to the bathroom, should be able to assess why they are still burdening our military pilots on duty. Military pilots perform crucial and critical tasks, especially in many difficulties, including health, social and psychological conditions. Military pilots are also human, and it's a great injustice to expect them to serve effectively and efficiently for 18 years under these conditions. We should not be misled by the fact that military pilots are piloting civilian aviation companies at the end of their mandatory mandates. Because the difference between military piloting and civilian piloting is categorically greater both in difficulty and risk. On the other hand, the recruitment of military pilots from civilian pilots and university students is an important risk that could lead to major problems, lives and loss of property. The risk must be handled very carefully and carefully by political power. There is no doubt that more effective measures must be taken to ensure that the Turkish Air Force, which is the most successful and courageous fighter pilots all over the world, will not lose this position in great effort. Respected lawmakers, another regulation issued under the law is the closure of the Telecommunications Communication Presidency and the transfer of its powers to the Information Technologies and Communication Agency. In particular, this arrangement, which leads to very critical changes in technical monitoring and listening, comes as a result of the power's tendency to control everything and conduct it in one hand without supervision. While it is clear that this and similar institutions have not been infiltrated on their own, it has taken its place in history as a political practice to put aside those who leaked to these institutions and institutions. One of the most remarkable points of the arrangement is that the measures reported by the Prime Minister would be implemented by the institution, given to the judge's approval of those measures, given by one or several of the reasons mentioned in Article 22 of the Constitution. With this arrangement, a court-ordered measure or a need-to-do hearing will first be carried out on the Prime Minister's orders, and then it will be submitted to the judge's approval. After such an arrangement, we need to consider on what grounds the judge would agree to such a measure. Political power, as always, is walking ahead, and it comes from behind, when the situation is adapted to the legislation. Is the political power uncomfortable with the illegal wiretaps that the TİB is making, or is it uncomfortable with the filth that's being thrown around by these wiretaps? The government, which facilitated the telecommunications Communications presidency to wire taps and handed them over to what it considers to be an ally at the time, has been obliged to request on this issue as well as on everything today. The experience from the founding of Telecommunications Communication Chairman to today as a result of his understanding of "whatever happens to me" would not have been enough for political power, which is now being shut down and more of the same powers are being given to the Information Technologies and Communications Agency. Honourable lawmakers, Code 671 also contains regulations for shortening the release of prisoners. Although some crimes have been exceptional, the time has been extended to two years, while the fine-documented convicts, who had previously remained on conditional release for a year or less, have been released under probation. In this way, two years or less of good-time inmates who remain on conditional release will be able to be released a year earlier by implementing a controlled liberalisation measure. The nationalist Movement Party has repeatedly voiced increased astronomical crime rates during the AKP period and, depending on this, overcrowded prisons. Along with those arrested as part of the coup attempt and as part of the coup attempt, the prisons in our country that already hold prisoners and prisoners have no place to sleep, and the government is forced to arrange such an arrangement. The political government has seen once again the result of not listening to the Nationalist Movement Party, which has made important warnings about almost everything with its responsible policy sense, and the distance between the statements of justice thrown from this platform and the facts has been understood once again. Members of parliament, another issue I would like to address as part of the provision of law enforcement is the change of the pension age of the faculty in universities to 75, and the extension of this practice by the end of 2020. Like the change in our military pilots' mandatory service times, this change also shows indirect damage to our country, our institutions, and our people. As political power continues to govern our country in a non-democracy, biased and unpredictable manner, the wounds will continue to be opened, and I fear, whether we work for a lifetime as a Turkish nation, they will not be closed, they will not be closed. The results of co-operation, mutual interest and negotiation-based relations that the government has entered into with ▪ and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) have caused major damage to the Turkish nation in all areas. This must be accepted by the power with urgency and clarity. The government should stop trying to resolve its dirty negotiations with terrorist organisations on its own, especially the PKK, and be transparent, fair, and sincere to ensure that these issues are now a matter of a country. Respected MPs, the July 15 coup attempt lasted about four months. It is also remarkable that tens of thousands of people have been exposed, that tens of thousands of people have been tried, that they have been burned, that their age has been burned, that the horse trail has been trailed, that they have been strengthened, that they have been raised, that they have been raised 15 times in their time of power, that they have been forced to infiltrate the state, that not a single member of the political government's organization has been officially expelled or punished. "I wonder if some people, some structures, are exempt from fighting the war, from operations, from ▪ trials?" Brings up the question. The victim's skin, fitre, zakat giver, who sends his child to his school or school, who wire transfers from his bank to his union, who is asked for money from the member of his union to buy gasoline, should be asked, which is true -- it is not possible to convince anyone of the efficiency and sincerity of this struggle if the people who gave the public property to the parsel Å are being transferred to the public institutions. There's no statute of limitations on crime, especially treason, or history, or statute of limitations. He's responsible for treason, he's responsible for judgment, he's punished. Betrayal is not an indiscriminate crime that a person can commit without intent or deception. Betrayal is a matter of blood above all, and it must be questioned accordingly. There is no such thing as asking forgiveness of the almighty God personally, but in democracies, let our militia forgive us," or rather, it shouldn't be, every crime must have a price, a punishment, an sanction. What we say is not an approach to political results, but a warning of the undivisible integrity of the Republic of Turkey with its country and nation. By displaying great heroism and courage from such a bloody coup attempt, the great Turkish nation, who emerged with the pride of its forehead, punishes the political movement at the point of fighting the Å, not being fair, neutral, or courageous, and paying the real responsible for it. On the other hand, the cost of favoring and ignoring such a critical process is a vital concern for all of us, especially in power, that we will live very heavily in the future as state and nation. If the Turkish nation has protected its independence with its life, then the political government should recognize its responsibilities instead of watering them down, accept the facts that everyone knows and clean up everything starting in its garden. Otherwise, it's not just political power, but we all pay a heavy price. Those who make a habit of lying, along with their ability to be bold, accidentally stubborn together, to have a powerful conversation, must also risk the consequences. We'll see about that later. It's not the time now. It's not always right, it's not always everywhere. With approaches like this, it's not possible to deal with these things. In particular, I've made a statement based on the establishment, which is related to the government, even at the top of the board of pilots, which, for example, is a very troubling, very wrong situation for all of us when we talk about the fact that the people who bombed the roof of this great nation were pilots that night, of course, were also pilots. With these thoughts, I reveal our approaches on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group on this ruling, and salute you with mercy, respect, and gratitude on the 78th anniversary of the death of the great Turkish nationalist Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who we will meet tomorrow.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0255par0051	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it belongs to İzmir MP Murat Ministry. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0256par0055	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the Order of the Order of Act 671. Dear friends, the July 15 coup attempt has been opposed by all the political parties in this parliament. Our congressman friends, the Veterans, kept Parliament open while the Capitol was bombed. Just us? Millions, NGOs, unions, trade rooms, media organizations, intellectuals, writers, journalists, all who love this country have been in the face of a coup attempt. Why? Are we the main opposition party against this coup attempt because we like the policies of AKP power? In the process of resolving, did we approve tent courts set up for terrorists in Habur? There's a solution process given to the military, so don't operate on terrorists. Did we find it right to ignore your orders, or to ignore the PKK terrorist organization when it's stacking thousands of tons of bombs on cities? Did we support the changes you've made in the education system? Did we consider it reasonable for you to hand over the country's judgment, safety, and army to a congregation? We don't realize the sad state of the country in foreign policy where we have no friends or reputation left? Of course not. Dear friends, because we believed in democracy, we stood in the face of the coup attempt; because we knew fascism was an enemy of humanity; because we believed that it should go by choice, not by tank. We believed that justice would only be served in a functioning democracy. And because we believed that human rights and freedoms could only be protected in a democracy, we stood up for the same reason that we opposed the state of emergency. The antidote to violence is democracy, the rule of law, the separation of forces. We said, "There is a lot of voice, there is no coup, there is no coupger in a country where different thoughts live freely in democracy." We said, "Come, let's vote together in this parliament." We said, "Let's vote against coup." We said, "Let's vote together. You didn't listen to us, you declared the State of Emergency." With the State of Emergency, you have victimized hundreds of thousands of people, removed the principle of individuality of punishment, turned not only to coupgers but to opponents who do not think as you do. By looking at your compliments, attention, praise, you did not separate the innocent shepherd from the faithful Muslims who approached him without knowing the inner part of the congregation. You ended hundreds of thousands of people's work with the KHKs, leaving over 100,000 people on the street, on hunger, on death row, without a criminal or administrative investigation. When you left these people out of public service to unemployment and hunger, you didn't limit that to the State of Emergency arrangement. You said that they could never be employed in public service again, directly or indirectly. You ignored the fact that they would prove their innocence tomorrow. You left her and her children to eternal unemployment and despair. People have become members of the union that you've been encouraging them to become members by being deceived by your proximity to power and by your praises. You threw him out on the street without food because he put money in the bank you gave him. You left them and their children to hunger and misery. Mr. President, who was his brother-in-law, Mr. President, who had all kinds of intelligence available, said, "God forgive me." But you didn't give him the right to say, "We're not one of the first-school teachers, we're not the ones who shot our own people, we're not the traitors, we don't want to be." You exported thousands of teachers from YOU because they participated in the act of peace, saying, "Democracy, freedom, human rights, environment, free and secular education." What was the crime of these people who were always in front of him? The left-wings of this country were left-handed on March 12th, on September 12th, at the gadrine of the coupgers, and for 14 years, they are now at your disposal. Whatever happens, happens to the left-handed. So, dear friends, what happens when the State of Emergency is over? Since the constitutional rights of the people you exported with no concrete connection to the coup will still be maintained, the constitutional rights and freedoms of the Constitution shall be limited only to the reasons stated in the relevant articles of the Constitution and only to the law. These limits cannot violate the Constitution's word and spirit, the requirements of democratic society and the principles of the secular republic and the principle of measurement. Won't you violate Article 13? Is it not the essence of fundamental rights and freedoms to deprive people of all economic and social rights, particularly the right to work for a lifetime, when they have no concrete connection with the coup? In addition to depriving these people of their basic rights, surely there will be tens of thousands of lawsuits against our country? Dear friends, the address of my solution is Parliament, don't look for any other address, don't talk to terrorists with guns. We said, "You didn't listen." Behind closed doors, in Oslo, in Imran, in many secret places that we do not yet know, you have not met in this great assembly. And now, while you should be running Parliament, the main address of the solution is that you don't make a sound to the arrest of elected lawmakers. Yesterday, your negotiations with PKK terrorists under the name of the solution process were wrong, and today your attitude towards the arrest of elected MPs is again wrong. You've changed the trustees' delegations and locked the doors of universities instead of picking out criminals, coupgers, if they're in them. You've victimized tens of thousands of students, their parents. You tagged the students. You have condemned academic and administrative staff, who work in those schools, who have no investigations, and the trained scientists of this country, to hunger and misery. Scientists who need to do scientific research sell balloons in the cordon to bring bread home; we have doctoral students who drive taxis, and we have professors who work in the fields, thanks to you. You take the families hostage, you do what the coupgers of September 12th didn't do, you put aside the principle of the individuality of the crime. Turning to the unsub's family, victimizing them, taking them hostage, not in law, not in the tradition and faith of this ancient land. Those who have spent their entire life struggling with such structures serve this organization. What is it, not a waste to be taken into custody? Take a look at the history of the Republic newspaper. Read the writings of İlhan Selçuk. Read the books of Hikmet Çetinkaya. You'll see how they fight this organization when you give them whatever they want, when you entrust them with all the organs of the state, when you hand them over. What you said today, the Cumhuriyet daily called it "a danger" when the AKP had not yet been established. Now he serves the organization. You arrest Ilhan Selçuk's friends, his students, his spiritual heritage. You're heading for the Chosen Ones, you're taking some into custody, you're arresting some. Judge, of course, we're all skinnier than hair in the eyes of the judge, no one has the right to commit a crime, but it's not right for a congressman to be tried. It's a democratic tradition for an election to go with an election. CHP is principled in this regard, and the CHP's principle is best known to Mr. President. The professor's wife, who is unemployed because her university is closed, is working to bring home the bread, pay the rent of her homes, and you still say, "There is no victim," because you're the only victim and proud one as usual. The state will, of course, judge those involved in the coup attempt and remove it from the state organs, but in doing so, it must act in accordance with the law. Unlawful regulations eliminate justice. There's chaos in a country where there's no justice, there's terror, domestic peace is over, that's what's happening today. It is clear that the President has led to a weakness of government in the government, in his dream of the presidency, and in his steps to achieve it, and the idea of authoritarian governance in the country is driving our country away from domestic peace rapidly. Dear friends, the state of emergency is a period of extraordinary circumstances, which is understood by its name, and we live in, but the state of emergency is not a model of governance in the country where the law is handed over to the government. In a state of law ruled by democracy, the rule of law again defines the limits of the state of emergency. When the ruling is criticised, we have declared the State of Emergency, as in France, what difference do we have? At a press conference with the French Foreign Minister and our Foreign Minister, Mr. Foreign Minister Sergeyoglu said the same words, the French Foreign Minister said what the difference was, the State of Emergency in Turkey and France is not the same; it is not based on the same legal basis. In France, the State of Emergency does not exercise the authority to live, and the judiciary is independent. In France, the State of Emergency only gives the police additional authority. He means we don't rule out guilt, we don't take the law into our own hands. That's what we've said, since July 15th, we've reminded the Constitution of this bench. Article 121 of the Constitution states that the Council of Ministers can issue a decree in accordance with the laws made necessary by the state of emergency. Hence, the arrangement can be made only in matters that aim to eliminate the causes of the state of emergency. That means a limitation of the laws of the law in terms of purpose. Another statute of limitations on the State of Emergency law is in terms of time. These are limited to the time when the state of emergency was declared. With the end of the State of Emergency, the KHKs will automatically be removed. Therefore, rules that will continue to apply cannot be set, laws cannot be changed. The Supreme Court's 1991 hearing is also in effect. Therefore, we say no changes should be made in the laws of the KHK. In the opposite case, the state of emergency is over, but the rule remains in effect. It is clear that the above principles are not in harmony with the SECs released under the State of Emergency. The State of Emergency decrees are being organised on matters that have nothing to do with the State of Emergency. For example, in this rule of law, the decision is made to provide pilots from the outside source, the TİB is closed, the Penal Code is being changed. What's their relationship to the extraordinary state of things? Is that a precautionary decision? The State of Emergency decrees have been issued and the Constitution has been publicly violated unless the law is changed. Dear friends, if we look at the impacts in other countries, there are two types of development after coup or coup attempt; in those countries either democracy is rooted or fascism has arrived. In the first time, groups who opposed the coup continued to join forces to protect democracy, providing the development of democracy in their country. Our neighbor, Greece, Spain, Portugal, is an example of them. In 1981, in Spain, soldiers under the command of Commander Antonio Tejero raided the Spanish Parliament on live air, taking MPs hostage. In that case, the monarchy and the royalists were expected to support it, but the King of Spain came out, and said: "No one can stop the right to democracy of the Spanish people who are suffering so much. He gave a speech on television, a historic speech and the coup was eliminated after that speech. After that, the monarchists declared that they were not on the side of the coup. The next day, we were at the newspaper El Pais. The final remains of Franco Fascism were personally blocked by monarchists and by the king's attitude and followed by a strong democracy in Spain. Couldn't they have had the opportunity to do the opposite? They could, like you did. In the second kind of development, the rulings have put democracy on the shelf to open the road to dictatorship by turning coup attempts into opportunity and silenced opponents and set up their own dictatorship regimes. Some countries of the Middle East, Africa, Asia, and Latin America are also filled with these examples. The post-July 15th spirit of the new door is a great opportunity for the development of our democracy, while you -- the government and especially the President -- are using this situation consciously to build the form of governance in your own head. Mr. President, when we said this coup was God's grace, we saw it as an opportunity for democracy to take root in our country, to strengthen the parliamentary regime. However, we have learned within a few months that this is the path to the presidency, that it is the means to eliminate the opposition, that it is the means to silence the press, that it is the imprisonment of the chosen ones, that hundreds of thousands of families are victims. When we say "victur," don't do "victim literature." You say "victim literature." There's no man in this country who's going to put water on your hands in the victim's literature. You've come to power in the form of victim literature, you've become president of victim literature. Now you want to end the parliamentary democracy by turning the coup into an opportunity, by doing victim literature again. So, what are you doing with the State of Emergency? Are you trying to get democracy to take root in the country? Are you taking steps to reduce polarization? You're not doing any of it, you're even separating our martyrs. It's one who fights for us on the mountain with terrorists and one who lies in front of the tank on July 15th, all of whom are our martyrs, who have died for this country. Dear friends, you're taking December 17th to 25th, why? Is it because he's targeting you? Why is it not June 24, 2004, when a comprehensive presentation by the General Staff and the MIT was brought to the agenda of the National Security Council on the issue of Nursing activities in Turkey and Fetullah Gulen? Isn't that when you were told what was going to happen? Why is it not at the time when people steal questions in universities, KPSS and other public examinations, when officers, police, can not be soldiers, can not be promoted in office, and tens of thousands of young people have been denied their rights? Why is it December 17th or 25th, when money cases, shoe boxes, not conspiracy cases like Milat, Ergenekon, Sledgehammer? Where were you when all the public exam questions were being stolen, while the conspiracy cases were being carried out, while the country's Chief of Staff was being arrested, while the Turkish army's patriotic officers, journalists, were rotting in Silivri dungeons? Why not the biggest conspiracy cases in the history of the republic? The allegations of corruption weren't real? Did the recordings belong to someone else? Friends, December 17th or 25th, only one thing could have illuminated, and the AKP could have illumination of its criminal partnership. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And you're not being honest. Where is this political foot? How is it that 50 percent of the Turkish Armed Forces, the Police, the National Education, the MIT, and 60 percent of the people are not involved in politics? Don't you have mayors, mayors, mayors and even lawmakers who go in the same direction? You don't dare to touch your party, let alone take a look at it, because you know what you'll find when you meet your eye. The real responsibility for all this is for you guys who have been running this country since 2002. You have the power of the weak, but you do not dare to see, nor do you see, your relatives, when you go to the farm in Pennsylvania, with your heads open, with your hands outstretched, with your heads wide open. Your bravery to the poor, to the poor, to the poor. Even the President says the horse's mark is mixed with the dog's trail. See what the poet said: "Let the dust rise, the dust of this mountain, the horse you ride, or the donkey." When this fog rises, we will see that the loudest ones are the guilty ones. You, my friends, are now turning this coup into an opportunity and taking a blow to our parliamentary democracy. Come, turn this unfair, unlawful way, restore justice in this country, strengthen our democracy, meet on the path of light in the republic that is crowned with secularism. Dear friends, tomorrow is November 10th, the anniversary of the death of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0257par0092	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0258par0096	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Speaker used a statement in the form of "PARTlAR PARTI" which is linked to the members of the municipality's and the MPs' organization. It is appropriate to give a direct name, not such general assessments of which lawmakers are connected to this organization. In other words, such claims have become a common factor in the attempt to harm the AK PARTI (AK), which is essentially the result, beyond unnecessary political speculation, intent, and intent. What we say in that sense, what we claim, how we fill it in, it's very important. And you're going to say things like, "Come, tell me who." When you're told, you're going to shut up, and then you're going to shut up. This is unacceptable; this is the first one. Number two: now, Mr. President is not here. So cut and paste like gold scissors, change the words, mix their contexts, invent your own meaning! Mr. President, this coup is the grace of God. He doesn't mean anything by it. Those familiar with this culture know that ever since Ibrahim Hakkım, there's a tradition of how good things can come out of bad things. There is a famous poem by Abraham Hakkah, entitled Hayreys, the true evils. In fact, if you have understanding of what we know of evil, you will bring about some good from it, if you are guided. That's what the President meant. It's good to get the words straight. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0259par0102	Mr. Altay, here you go, and I promise you for a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0260par0104	Mr. Bostanci probably asked for a word based on 60, so I asked him for a word. Mr. Bostanci, I find you very sane. So you believe yourself in all this? Mathematically, is it possible that logic did not infiltrate the Justice and Development Party -- this means coup -- as well? I told you, somewhere along the way, that I couldn't tell you mathematically that it wasn't leaked to us. I said it with such honesty and sincerity. Why can't you tell me? As for the Bylockian ministers, Allah is as close to us as our jugular vein, isn't he?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0261par0107	To all of us.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0260par0108	I mean, he won't. There's a broad public opinion that you're a member of the ByLockcı government. By Locker...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0262par0110	Let's complete it, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0260par0111	Yeah, this virus has leaked everywhere. You'll have to say it bravely. We don't have it, we don't. You can't get away with it. I'm not saying we don't. Be honest. I didn't say you weren't honest. That's a tease, I'll tell you that. But I'll tell you one thing: I mean, it would be ridiculous to claim that the Justice and Development Party has not infiltrated the county, county agencies, city councils. I'm talking for your own good. I suggest we close this discussion here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0263par0115	Thank you. Members of parliament, talks have been completed on the entire legislature. Question? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The 1st chapter includes the 1st and 19th clauses, including the 6th article, extra temporary clause 92 and additional interim material 93. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Baki Simsek has asked for the first word on the first chapter. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0264par0128	I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Actions on the first chapter of the Constitutional Court on how to establish regulations for certain Institutions and Institutions within the scope of the State of Emergency. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, our country today is unfortunately under very heavy conditions, during the troubled days of the national security issue, where our internal and external security is threatened. Our security forces are operating against ISIS and the PYD in Syria on the one hand, while the separatist terrorist group is at odds with Turkey's new countermeasures. On the one hand, the devastating developments in Iraq and Syria, on the other hand, the threat of the PYD, which today became the land power of our ally, Syria. The weapons and logistical support the United States has given to the PKK's identical PYD terrorist organization are increasing day by day. The United States is trying to hit the terrorist organization in Syria with another terrorist group. All of this has nothing to do with friendship and alliance. Also, as it is known, the presidential elections were held today in the United States. Frankly, we don't care who won the U.S. presidential election. Unfortunately, our broadcast organs have been reporting nothing more than the US presidential elections for 24 hours. The policies of the United States are not shaped by the president. Millions of Muslims were slaughtered during the Obama era, said to have come from Muslim origin, millions of women were widowed, children were orphaned, hundreds of thousands of women were raped, children were born unknown. The only state in the world that will be the patron of the oppressed and the victims is the Republic of Turkey. Turkey will rise when it is thought in Turkish, reads Turkish and is properly directed. Dear lawmakers, Turkey faces very serious back issues. Social peace and unrest have increased. In addition to all the terrible developments, our nation was startled by a violent coup on the evening of July 15th, and still has not recovered from its effects and tremors. Nearly four months after this bloody initiative, the dissolution of all public institutions and institutions in Turkey has begun. For many years, the police have systematically and systematically infiltrated the judiciary, the press, public institutions and organizations, the business world, universities. Our government must take measures against these leaks. However, while all this is being done, our citizens should not be victimized. Unfortunately, in the process after the July 15 bloody coup, suspension and exports were implemented by school, school and bank criteria. Therefore, suspensions and exports must be treated with caution, well-researched, and the actual coupgers must be tried. He did the coup, but to whom did he give these orders? Who is the council of the peace in the dorm? During the coup attempt, the list containing the names of martial law officials has been seized within the TSK. Military martial law commanders are known, council members who will serve under them are unknown. Therefore, coup investigations, suspensions from the public will not mean anything unless it is reached the upper level of planning the coup, with the right intelligence information, unless the most effective names of the terrorist organization are found. In various laws, dismissals, discharges and detentions have found hundreds of thousands. However, there are few of them who have been extradited to the civil service. In detailed research, those who are considered to be stable in rash investigations, those who are in real contact with the government must undoubtedly not be kept anywhere in the state, our position in this is clearly MHP, but does not correspond with our religious facts or our humanity without examining people for reasons of water. The cries and cries of our citizens, whose work, profession, future, and bread were taken away from him without any guilt, ring every day in our ears. Many of our citizens who have come to our room in Congress, who have come to us by phone or by letter, say they have been suspended by slander. We await the extradition of Ali Kılıç, founder of Turkey's DİYANET-SEN, founder of TÜRK TARM ORMAN-SEN. Alparslan Akbak, director of Turkey's Public Workers' Foundation, Alparslan Akbak. Therefore, we believe that power must be careful, calm, and patient. Our advice to the government is that the law should not be separated from its basic principles in the fight against a growing, cancerous cell that shoots everyone. A struggle that goes down to the clerk, the waiter, the cleaner, the driver who drives a garbage car in the municipality, the midwife, the doctor, the police, the prosecutor, the maid, but not to the high-level and the real dignitaries will not be credible. We also expect that privates and privates who have been arrested within this scope will be evacuated immediately -- privates and privates who have followed orders given by the commanders -- who have been under arrest for four months -- are still available. Dear lawmakers, I address US and EU ambassadors who prefer partnership with bloody terrorists to Turkey's friendship: you aided in and abetted in terrorism, you backed the terrorist organization, you went to HDP's group meeting first, you supported those who challenged the Republic of Turkey, those who did not know the law, those who spoke of separatism and terror. Now, I ask you, have you ever been to the funeral of our heroes who have been martyred for their country and their nation? Have you published a message of condolence? The United States is almost rewarding terrorism by helping the separatist terrorist organization, the TYD. But it has to be known that friendship with terror has brought no good to anyone. Besides, no country in the world pays MPs who don't come to parliament, who don't even swear. Being here by choice doesn't give anyone the right to help with terrorism. Dear MPs, let's settle the issues of Turkey together. Just as we have acted with his opposition to the government, by entering parliament in the presidential election of Abdullah Gül, by supporting the government in the fight and coup, as we have done in the resolution of the headscarf case, let us act together in the appointment of the chancellor, in the HSYK elections, and in the administration of the final country. With so many problems in our country -- the minimum wage in Turkey, which you've managed alone for 15 years -- is 1,300 euros, the number of people receiving poverty benefits, the number of people applying for 15 million Special Ops police applications, the number of people applying only 1 million -- millions of unemployed teenagers in men, the teacher who can't be appointed, let's not waste Parliament's hours when we have an engineer. Two weeks ago, in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, on Tuesday, we did seven hours to make Kazan a hero. We left the minimum wage out of the tax box on Wednesday. Because we couldn't get a majority on Thursday, we took a leave of absence from Congress. Let's solve Turkey's problems, let's not waste Parliament's time. Precious lawmakers, Keşan, Karaman, Ermenek, and Ermenek, have received natural gas from many districts, but the districts of Mersin, one of Turkey's most advanced provinces, have yet to meet natural gas. In 2016, in 2017, and in 2018, there is not yet, unfortunately, a project on bringing natural gas to Mersin. The airports were built with many who had no passengers in Turkey, many cities without students had universities, but there are still no airports in Mersin, with a population of 2 million. You've promised a university in the elections with 350,000 inhabitants, passed through the Council of Ministers, but you're still holding it up. Troubles continue in many of the districts of Mersin. The hotels you said would be athletes at the Mediterranean Games still haven't been built. The Cotton Dam, which will change the fate of the region, is going at an ant speed. What happened to Silifke Kayraktepe Dam? Where are the houses you said you'd give to the poor poor on $100 a month in installments? No urban transformation projects have been implemented in Mersin. Agriculture has not been given the necessary support. She's stuck in a citrus. Banana prices are now down because of imported bananas. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, I'm asking you: you need 145 percent tax on imported bananas, did you remove the limit on that? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Even in Congress, Chiquita bananas are sold. Although we have repeatedly expressed this to the Presidential Court, Chiquita bananas are still being sold at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I expect you to show proper sensitivity in these matters. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0265par0144	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Now, the second word on behalf of groups on the department belongs to İstanbul MP Selina Doğan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0266par0148	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the second chapter of Legislators' decree number 671. Good evening to you all. You know, we've been talking here for months about the illegality of law enforcement. This extraordinary state has become ordinary, and our normal state has become extraordinary, and we are deeply concerned about it. Unfortunately, the extraordinary situation has already exceeded its purpose, and the entire community is being silenced through the opposition. I'd like to address some of the legal findings in this ordinance, if you'll excuse me instead of ranking the victims one by one. Now, the state of emergency, as the Constitution has been established, requires a temporary limiting of freedoms and in fact a preordained arrangement and criteria for maintaining the individual's rights and public order so that it can be legal. We can put them this way: no one should violate the obligations of international law, no one should exceed the measure required, no one should be denied freedom of religion and conscience, no one who has been proven guilty by a court order should be held guilty, so the purity of innocence must be protected. In the state of emergency, the laws of the law must be limited above all, lawmakers. Decisions under the rule of law must be regulated only in the matters required by the state of emergency and by consideration of the principle of measurement. So you can't turn off TVs, you can't seize property, you can't cancel social security rights, you can't build a university, you can't close college, you can't change the names of universities. It has nothing to do with suppressing violence, preventing a coup. The state-of-the-art decrees must also be limited in time, lawmakers. I mean, the laws of the law require only limited regulations for the time required by the state of emergency, and when it is extraordinary, those regulations must be lifted by themselves. However, when we look at the current situation, we see that these extraordinary state-of-the-art decrees bring in institutional, permanent regulations. As a matter of fact, I would like to mention the Constitutional Court's decision on the application of our party, as you know in that decision, the ruling issued in the state of emergency cannot be prosecuted in the Constitutional Court on the basis and fundamentally contrary to the Constitutional Court. The same court, you know, ruled in 1991 as follows: Decisions that have not been issued on matters that had been made necessary by the State of Emergency may not be considered a mistrial in the Constitutional Court. Again, the State of Emergency decrees are only valid during the State of Emergency, and when the State of Emergency goes up, they will take off on their own. The State of Emergency can't change the laws of the law because they are only related to matters that the State of Emergency has made necessary and are valid during the State of Emergency. However, no one will be surprised if the Constitutional Court, which has become so dysfunctional, is shut down in the event of a new law. Now, the decree that we're discussing today includes many violations that I've just stated, but I'd like to address the 25th and 31st articles, if I may. Now, the 25th article gives the Prime Minister the right to control and measures for all communications providers, which exceeds the 22nd Article of the Constitution and Article of the Penal Code of Penal Code 135, and the judicial audit is left after the Prime Minister's decision. So, here, the judiciary has been made a sort of appropriation authority, and we think it's impossible for the Prime Minister to make a decision contrary to his decision when we look at the state of the judiciary. So, imagine that both the Constitution and the CMK provisions are being ruled out by a decree issued by the Council of Ministers, and our main concern is that these regulations will become permanent. Again, in Article 31, both constitutional guarantees and measures in the Penal Code are bypassed, and again, with the decree of this law, the rights to seize property, as if there were a final ruling in the investigation and prosecution process. Although it has been stated that the damage will be compensated if a positive outcome arises for individuals or corporate individuals, we all know that these are the provisions that can cause irreparable damage, and that people will be severely deprived of judicial investigation, as well as the loss of goods. Again, the freedom of rights granted in Article 36 of the Constitution with this clause is also being eliminated, and innocence is being eliminated, most importantly. Another thing that the State of Emergency brings to our lives is the seizure of people's assets and even pensions and social security. According to Article 128 of the Penal Code, the property of persons may be confiscated, but for this reason, there is concrete evidence that confiscated goods are obtained from the crime. Think of a country where the executive body makes laws that make significant changes in social order without asking anyone, without consulting anyone, and that law is not subject to the supervision of any court. Now, when we say these things, when we criticize it as dictatorship, you resent us, but I'm afraid there's no other response in political terminology. Now, you know, the EU progress report was published today. Turkey is beating the shit out of him again. In connection with the EU criteria, the Council of Europe is constantly warning Turkey. The European Court of Human Rights, as well as the State of Emergency, says: "The measures taken to the extent that the threat has been reduced need to be reduced. We now see that these measures are increasing every day. I'd like to ask the government: Is the threat increasing? So there's a threat going on that we don't know about, which is increasing every day? This question needs to be answered. In response to the EU progress report, Mr. President and our Minister of the European Union have a statement again -- I'm going to call it law-breaker. But there's 50 years of savings, 50 years of hard work. So much more constructive towards the threat of freezing EU talks, we would wish for more constructive responses to Turkey's strategic goal, and for criticism to be taken into consideration. On the other hand, you know, the existing Anti-Terror Law was already a problem in terms of EU-Turkey relations, and now with an extraordinary state-of-the-art resolution, the change in the Anti-Terror Law has made Turkey-EU relations very difficult. In this regard, we are concerned that both citizens of the Republic of Turkey will reach the standards of the European Union and that Turkey will quickly be torn out of the modern world. And then there's the death penalty debate. All public talk in Turkey responds to much more than that in the outside world, and these arguments tear us away from the world day after day. We have now come to believe that Turkey considers EU norms a liability to it, doing its best to cut the strings with the EU. Our citizens will go to the European Union without visas. While diplomatic moves are being made in such a way for the public, our citizens are now in line for residence permit, asylum applications in foreign consulates. This, unfortunately, is the ironic situation in which Turkey has been reduced. It is often said that during the past period, he did not search September 12th. The number of prisoners and prisoners increased by about 27,000 during September 12th, while 34,000 people have been arrested in connection with the coup attempt since the July 15 coup attempt. New prisons are said to be being built. You know, the number of prisoners, the number of prisoners growing every day. Besides, security problems in prisons are another problem. Even though it doesn't go public with the press, lawyers, colleagues, are bringing up serious security issues in prisons. You know, 21 people have died in prisons so far. Hence, we are concerned about them. The Subcommittee of Prisons does not oversee any of this. However, all of these should be being investigated in both the Commission for Research on Impacts and the Subcommittee for Prisons. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I have a moment?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0267par0168	I'm not, but go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0266par0169	Thank you. There are also some media reports about prisons that suggest a plan to escape from prisons. In this sense, lawyers are concerned about operations against various prisons and their clients' right to live. In the European Convention on Human Rights, where we suspend 16 articles of abuse and torture, it has been made clear that even so, torture and abuse are prohibited. Therefore, we invite the government to obey all these laws. Thank you. Good evening.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0268par0173	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. On behalf of members of the department, Sinop MP Nazim Mavis. Here you go, Mr. Blue. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0269par0178	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own person regarding the State of the Law of 671. I salute you all. On the 15th of July, we all witnessed a treacherous coup that we all knew and lived in close proximity, a betrayal that had never happened in our history. We have all been exposed to our Veteran Assembly as lawmakers under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to the bombing of the sovereignty of our great nation. Thank you, Lord, for the heroic stand of our great nation, which was thrown out on the street by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. But after the great danger we faced, there were steps that needed to be taken. The total cleansing of this state-run organization has been declared a state of emergency in order to improve our situation quickly and effectively. The state-of-the-art decision and decision-making of the laws issued are aimed at two main issues: First, a stronger, faster, and more effective fight is being waged with the PKK's terrorist organization. Secondly, it is intended to guarantee our democracy and cut off the possibilities of military coup. Dear lawmakers, from the founding of the republic to this day, our country's democracy has faced many coups and interventions. Politicians who took away their authority and legitimacy from the public have been constantly cut off by guardians who consider legitimacy to be their own. The juntas nested within the Armed Forces, legitimizing the intervention in political life and impacting our democracy. He wanted to investigate every coup in our country. With constitutional and legal changes made after the coup, democracy has been sought to be contained. Following the 1960 coup, regulations have been made concerning the National Security Council, which is linked to the Prime Minister of the General Staff, the Minister of National Defence in the Constitution of 1924. 1971, 1973; constitutional regulations have increased the powers of the National Security Council, allowing the Turkish Armed Forces to be excluded from the Court of Justice and the establishment of a military high-management court. With the Constitution of 1982, guardianship has been attempted after each coup attempt, such as the dissolution of the AGE decisions, the appointment of the Chief of Staff as a member of the SEC. As these examples show, each coup attempt has tried to make legal and constitutional arrangements that seek to impose custody over civilian politics. From 1960 to today, in 1960, in 1971, in 1980, on February 28, on April 27, and on 15 July, the blows have made it very clear to us that there was a structural problem in Turkey that produced the coup. Thus, with the laws laid out, the structural problem was tried to resolve and prevent all terrorist organisations from nesting within the state. Speaking here earlier, I would like to express to my friend, the esteemed spokesman of the Republican People's Party, that our friend, who was just speaking on this bench, has shown the example of the King of Spain's struggle with the soldiers who raided the Spanish Parliament in Spain and his steps to strengthen the Spanish democracy there. I expected a member of the Turkish Parliament to appreciate the President of the Republic of Turkey, who had made a very clear stand against the coup in front of his nation on the night of July 15th, as much as the King of Spain appreciated his effort to democratize Spain. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, today, yes, we're turning the coup into an opportunity; we're turning the coup into an opportunity to democratize this country. For years, we have been critical of the military-military relationship in this country; we have been critical of the coups in this country, from 1960 to today, and critical of the system that provides the basis for coups. So today, this institutional structure is being tried to liquidate with extraordinary state-of-the-art decisions and decrees on the basis of the coup. In that sense, Turkey, along with its nation, has the right and obligation to appreciate the heroic President of this country, along with lawmakers in parliament. I salute you all by expressing it.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0187	Thank you. On chapter one...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0189	Mr. President, the preacher must have picked on our group.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0190	There was no bullying of the group, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0191	Sir, will you? I mean, he made it very clear and clear to our friend, who was just a speaker, why didn't he appreciate the President? What could be more obvious than that?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0192	Mr. Tanal, the Minister has just made statements. In a different way, in the same way, Mr. Blue made statements from his perspective. There's no such thing as taunting, insulting, or bullying the group. As such, lawmakers, all talks on chapter one have been completed.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0194	Sir...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0195	Now, in chapter one...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0196	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0197	...and we'll move on to motions on matter if there is one.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0198	Mr. President, then I have questions. I have questions. If that's what you're going to do, I'll ask my questions.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0199	Mr. Tanal, we've switched to materials.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0200	Sir, there are questions, you haven't crossed them yet.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0201	Sir, there are no questions, I told the materials... that the interviews have been completed.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0202	It's not, it's not...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0203	I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0204	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0205	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0206	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0207	Matter accepted.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0208	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0209	Okay, you'll want the 2nd.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0210	We'll want them all. If you do that, we'll want them all.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0211	On the 2nd article...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0212	I'm sorry!
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0213	Mr. Tanal, we have said that the negotiations have been completed. We passed the question-answer, voted the item.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0214	Sir, if you do this, I'll ask for the number of decisions enough for all of them.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0215	Wait, I'll give you my word according to 60.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0216	I don't cheat against the law. He made a mockery of me, and I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0217	No teasing, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0218	Otherwise, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0219	Look, Mr. Secretary, there may be a possibility, but he didn't say anything about the group, he said anything about Mr. Secretary's statements.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0220	Mr. President, I've never been involved in a fraud against the law in my entire life, and I don't want to be involved.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0221	But he didn't say anything about the group.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0222	I asked for my legal rights.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0223	Open the records, he didn't say anything about the group. He didn't say anything, no, Mr. Tanal. Is that what we're...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0271par0224	Okay.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0272par0225	Ask for the transcripts, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0226	Let's ask for the transcripts, see if they're for the group. There's a motion on Article 2 that I'm having read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law, which is currently in session, be removed from the decree text of 15/8/2016 dates and 421 rows. Dursun Çiçek Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Murat Minister Ceyhun İrgil Burcu Koksal Kazım Arslan Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Mahmoud Tanal Zulfikar Inönu Uniter Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0273par0237	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0238	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0274par0239	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0270par0240	Afyonkarahisar MP Burcu Koksal wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0275par0244	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, you're trying to reshape the state with the KHK through the announcement of a state of emergency after July 15th. We're cleaning up the workers. You've driven people out of their jobs, their vaccines, and their freedom, without looking at them innocently. You fired the loan-taking officer from Bank Asia, but you cut the ribbon with these people at the opening of Bank Asia. You suspended the officers who sent their children to schools you saw connected to, but you didn't touch the mayors who assigned land to those schools, the Minister of National Education who gave public incentives to students who went to those schools. As many Ataturkers and Republican soldiers in the Turkish Armed Forces, we're the prosecutors of Ergenekon, when they're being framed and thrown in jail. You said, "We're the prosecutors of Ergenekon." You assigned the people to the Turkish Armed Forces and gave us July 15th." We are Fetullah Gülen terror organization. When we said, "Come and let this longing end." You took part in the Turkish Olympics and gave eulogies to Master Hoca. You went to Pennsylvania, where you had your hand taken and taken pictures. Look, Mr. Naci Bostancı, deputy leader of the AKP Group, has just stated that our statements are empty. I'm going to give you an example of how much gold is actually loaded. Afyonkarahisar Mayor Burhanettin Çoban -- one of the founders of the AKP (AKP) -- has been the mayor for many years -- has personally admitted in a television programme he attended last month that many AKP people had gone to Pennsylvania to be deputy ministers or mayors -- and had taken the municipality's homes to be used by ESTurists until 1 April 2014, and that he had personally dedicated the municipality of Osmanbey College, which had been shut down due to the request of Recep Tayyip Erdogan. If you'd like, Mr. Bostanci, we can get you the tape of the TV show. In your 14 years of power, you became like meat and nails, and then you came out and said, "We've been fooled." You discharged and arrested a 24-year-old medical examiner who had no connection. You know what the motive is? It's a confidential witness statement. Well, as a country, we're used to secret witnesses. PKK's number 2 man was seen as a confidential witness against soldiers in the conspiracy case. After that, after seeing this, it's all too light. Look, during the October 29th ceremony, Afyonkarahisar Sinanpaşa, stressed the importance of the republic, and said, "There will not be a single man, there will not be a priest." He gave a speech about it, and was suspended after that. Doesn't that make sense? We said, "Don't turn purity into a punishment hunt." But you've started using it as a stick against people who are opposed, but when it comes to the political wing, you're trying to get away with it. How, for God's sake, will the AKP, who can't even clean up in it, clean up the country? You're not running the country well, and since you're not running the country well, you're trying to cover up your failures in domestic and foreign policy. You boast about terrorism, unemployment, poverty, corruption, corruption in the economy, that even on your own election posters, I'm free to live. You brag about what happened after July 15th and announce the state in the entire country, and you try to redesign the state with the KHK, which you've done in an extraordinary situation. I'm sorry. The hat fell off. It looked bald. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0276par0251	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0277par0253	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit05spe0276par0254	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 18th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law of 421 was not enough. I'm going to put the item back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the matter is accepted, the decision is sufficient. We continue the talks of Judgement of 421 rows. The commission and the government are in place. There are two motions on Article 3 that I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 15/8/2016 date and Article 421, Article 3/7/1967 and Article 14/A of Article 14/A of Article No. 926, under Article 3/7/1967 and Article 14/A of the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act... We propose and propose the addition of the declaration "in case there is no pilot officer available to meet the need of the Turkish Armed Forces," which will come after the declaration of carrying the terms of being a reserve officer and succeeding in the examinations. Dursun Çiçek Kazım Azlan Murat Minister Ceyhun İrgil Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Bkent Yener Bektasoğlu Zülfikar Inönu Division Mahmoud Tanal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14/A added to Article 926 of Turkish Armed Forces Staff Law shall be replaced in the following manner. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hasan Basri Kurt Kerem Ali Constant Ramadan Can Haci Bayram Türkoğlu "A pilot officer from outside source: MADDE 14/A - those who graduate from at least four-year-old universities or institutes of higher education and have a commercial pilot's license or a pilot's license to fly airway transport pilot can be granted the necessary conditions for flying on the first day of January, provided they are successful in basic military training of women or men who have graduated from universities or higher education for at least four years, according to the unresolved population register. Those who have failed in piloting training can be employed in other classrooms, provided they need service in the Turkish Armed Forces, providing other conditions in Article 14 and completing the necessary training. For these, however, the probationary period in Article 14's fourth joke is three years. No compensation will be taken from those who have failed piloting training and who have left the Turkish Armed Forces during the trial period." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0278par0026	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0027	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0279par0028	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0029	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 676 is intended to be reflected. I submit to your votes the motion that I've made him read his motive: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. This motion, which completely alters matter, eliminates the other motion. Therefore, I submit to your votes the third article in accordance with the agreement: those who accept... those who refuse... the clause is accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the Fifth Amendment... those who refuse... are accepted. There's an additional interim clause on Article 6 over 92, so I'm going to read it and process it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the additional interim 92th clause, added to Law 926, with the 6th Amendment under the Law Code of 421, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hasan Basri Kurt Kerem Ali Constant Ramadan Can Haci Bayram Türkoğlu "EGREESE MADDE 92-Presently leaving the Turkish Armed Forces for any reason or being cut off from the Turkish Armed Forces before this clause is in effect, and those who have a license to pilot a commercial pilot's license or pilot's pilot's license for at least 1,000 hours from other classrooms, can be assigned as pilots in the Turkish Armed Forces under the approval of the Joint Forces Commander's proposal and with the approval of the Minister of the National Defence, in order to provide the necessary conditions for flight and to approve their applications. These are considered pilots under Law 2629. The amount of time they spend outside is as long as they wait for the rank, the flight hours the pilot officers spend outside, the documentation, and the flight service. Those who have left the Turkish Armed Forces for at least four years, except in the state of disability and death, will not benefit from any rights, including retirement of their new rank. The pensions of those assigned to pensions or old age are cut off as part of this clause. Those who have not fulfilled the term of their term of duty of four years are not required to combine these terms of service, and they are subject to a total payment of their rights without any other requirement. According to social security laws, the days of the people whose pensions have been cut are reconnected according to the written request date. Due to the application of this clause, there is no payment for the past. As of four years from the time they begin their mission, they will not be assessed under the number of colonels over the number of services that will be determined by the High Military Police (c) in the first verse of Article 41 (c). When they resume their post in the Turkish Armed Forces, the rank listed in Article 38, which is a one-time issue, the terms of promotion and the basis of the promotion of their predecessors are immediately carried out and their precedents are taken back to history." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0280par0050	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0051	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0281par0052	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0053	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 676 is intended to be reflected. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the additional interim clause of Article 6 (P.S.) under Article 92: those who accept... those who do not accept... the article is accepted. I submit to your votes the additional interim clause of Article 6 of Article 93: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on the 7th article that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 7 of the Law Code, which is currently in session, be removed from the text of the decree under the rule of law. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hasan Basri Kurt Kerem Ali Constant Ramadan Can Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0282par0069	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0070	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0283par0071	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0072	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 669 is intended to be reflected in KHK. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion has been accepted, the 7th article has been removed from the text. There's a motion on Article 8 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to add and propose that the declaration of "The Chief of General Staff" will be added after the amendment of Article 8/8/2016 and Article 421 in Article 8/24 of the Article 8 of the Law. Dursun Çiçek Murat Minister Kazim lion Ceyhun İrgil Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Mahmut Tanal Fatma Hurriyet Kaplan Zulfikar Inönü Diary Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0284par0086	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0087	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0285par0088	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0089	Am I making you read the reason, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0286par0090	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0091	We're reading the motive: "The President of General Staff is appointed by the President on the proposal of the Council of Ministers, among the generals and admirals of Kara, Deniz or Air Force Command." The first joke, which is in the form of the First Amendment, "The Chief of Staff is appointed by the President on the proposal of the Council of Ministers, among the general and the admirals. " it is arranged. Because the Chief of Staff is the highest authority of the Turkish Armed Forces in terms of responsibility and authority, it is the principle of merit that he be appointed among the oreneral or admirals. In this regard, the President of the Council of Ministers shall be appointed by the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the general and admirals. of the article, which was organized as "... Following the declaration of the Chief of Staff, it has been added: "The Black, Navy, or Air Force Command." I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 9th article. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. I'll give my word to those who have motions on their demands. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the Article 9 of the Law Code, which is currently in session, be removed from the text of the decree. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hasan Basri Kurt Kerem Ali Constant Ramadan Can Haci Bayram Türkoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Dursun Çiçek Kazım Azlan Murat Minister Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Ceyhun İrgil Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Zülfikar Inönu Division Mahmoud Tanal Does the commission agree with the same motions? We commend you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0287par0117	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0118	We're reading the reasons. The amendment to Article 669 is intended to be reflected in KHK. Due to the coup attempt by the Fetullahist terrorist organization on July 15, 2016, the declaration of the State of Law aims to eliminate threats against the rights and freedom of citizens due to the widespread public order of violence. In accordance with Articles 120/1, and Article 121 of the Constitution, the purpose and scope of KHK (668) should be consistent with the reason for the declaration of the State of Emergency, which has been declared with the Council of Ministers' Decision 2016/9064, and should aim to eliminate this reason and return to the normal era as soon as possible. The change in this substance is an arrangement that exceeds the cause and purpose of the State of Emergency. Due to this change, which will lead to a general and continuous, legal and lasting effect, the State of Emergency will remain in effect after the end of its term. This article does not refer to it as an arrangement in Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution in which the extraordinary state of the Constitution has made it necessary. The regulation that is asked to be removed from the text of the article is contrary to Article 121 of the Constitution. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The motions of the same nature have been accepted, so Article 9 has been removed from the text. In accordance with the motions adopted, the articles will be identified during the draft of the law. We'll proceed with the law-ordered debates according to the existing clauses. There's a motion on Article 10 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th Article of the Law, No. 671, and 15/8/2016, be removed from the text of the decree. Dursun Çiçek Kazım Azlan Murat Minister Ceyhun İrgil Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Bkent Yener Bektasoğlu Zülfikar Inönu Division Mahmoud Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0288par0139	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0140	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0289par0141	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0142	I'm reading the reason: A member of the ruling class, dated 4/7/1972, will be elected as general secretary for at least four years by the President of the Military Supreme Administration Court of the Sixth Amendment of the Military Supreme Court of 1602. For this task, you will also be given a staff." The first sentence of its first joke, the first sentence, "a member of the Supreme Court of Government, who will be elected from the ruling class of the Council of Judges, does the job of Secretary General. " it is arranged. It is the principle of merit that the military Supreme Administration Court be appointed to the General Secretary's office from judges who have served a period of time. In addition, the ruling does not refer to it as an arrangement in the issue of "expectation which is necessary" in Article 121/3 of the Constitution. In this respect, the provision that was asked to be removed from the text of the article is contrary to the Article 121 of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There is a motion on Article 13 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 13 of the Law Rule 421 which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hasan Basri Kurt Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Ramazan Can Kerem Ali Constant "A supplemental ruler to Law 13-2629 has been changed as follows. A-Service Group: Jet Pilot, B-Service Group: Propeller Pilot, C- Service Group: Weapons Systems Officer, S-Secretive Officer, D- Service Group: ADS Pilot, Submarine Officer, Submarine Petty Officer, Submarine Submarine Specialist Private, Diver, Frog Man, E- Service Group: Tactical Coordinator, Flight Team personnel, Task Force personnel, Parachutist.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0290par0168	Mr. President, since there's an additive list, there's no need to read the crop, sir, that's the way it is. It's already on the list. Because there is an additional ruler in the text, No. 2629, which has been changed to the following way. After it is called A, B, C, C, D, E. There's no need to read the list, sir. It's on the list. That's how we practice budget laws and other things so far.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0169	Let's finish what we started, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0290par0170	For the record, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0171	Okay. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0291par0175	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0176	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0292par0177	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0178	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 676 is intended to be reflected. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on the 16th article that I'm having read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the Article 16 of the Law Code of Law 421 shall be removed from the text of the Law. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hasan Basri Kurt Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Ramazan Can Kerem Ali Constant Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0293par0195	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0196	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0294par0197	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0198	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 669 is intended to be reflected in KHK. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. The 16th article was removed from the text in accordance with the agreed motion. Therefore, the articles will be identified during the writing of the law. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 19 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "The General Director of General Plans and Principles" shall be changed to "The General Manager of the Centre for Mines and Landing, which is part of Article 19 of Law Code 421. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hasan Basri Kurt Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Ramazan Can Kerem Ali Constant Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0295par0215	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0216	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0296par0217	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0218	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 676 is intended to be reflected by the decision of the Council of Ministers of 2016/9182 issued on September 2, 2016 and by the Official Gazette 29819. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one have been completed. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers Articles 20 to 35. Anybody want a word on chapter two? No. No questions, no answers. We're starting negotiations on matter. There's a motion on Article 20 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 20/8/2016, dated 15/8/2016, and sentence number 421, be removed from the text of the decree. Dursun Çiçek Kazım Azlan Murat Minister Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Ceyhun İrgil Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Zülfikar Inönu Division Mahmoud Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0297par0239	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0240	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0298par0241	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0242	I'm reading the reason for the motion: In accordance with Articles 120/1, and Article 121 of the Constitution, the purpose and scope of KHK 668 must be in accordance with the reason for the declaration of the State of Emergency, which has been declared by the Council of Ministers' Decision 2016/9064. The reason and purpose of the Council of Ministers declared Decision 2016/9064 was to take effective and rapid measures against those who participated in the failed coup attempt by the Fetullahist terrorist organization. However, this clause shows that the purpose of removing the reason for the State of Emergency was not to be removed, but to make general and permanent changes that would remain in effect after the end of the State of Emergency. The Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution does not refer to it as "the subject of the State of Emergency," which is referred to in Article 121/3 of the Constitution. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 21 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st Article of the Law, which is currently in session, be removed from the text of the decree, which is dated 15/8/2016 dates and 421 rows. Dursun Çiçek Kazım Azlan Murat Minister Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Ceyhun İrgil Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Zülfikar Inönu Division Mahmoud Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0299par0260	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0261	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0300par0262	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0263	I'm reading the reason: In accordance with Articles 120/1, and Article 121 of the Constitution, the purpose and scope of KHK 668 must be in accordance with the reason for the declaration of the State of Emergency, which has been declared by the Council of Ministers' Decision 2016/9064. The reason and purpose of the Council of Ministers declared Decision 2016/9064 was to take effective and rapid measures against those who participated in the failed coup attempt by the Fetullahist terrorist organization. However, this clause shows that the purpose of removing the reason for the State of Emergency was not to be removed, but to make general and permanent changes that would remain in effect after the end of the State of Emergency. The Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution does not refer to it as "the subject of the State of Emergency," which is referred to in Article 121/3 of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 22 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of the Article 22 of the Law, which is currently in session, be removed from the text of the decree, on 15/8/2016 dates and 421 rows. Dursun Çiçek Kazım Azlan Murat Minister Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Ceyhun İrgil Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Zülfikar Inönu Division Mahmoud Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0301par0281	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0282	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0302par0283	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0284	I'm reading the reason: In accordance with Articles 120/1, and Article 121 of the Constitution, the purpose and scope of KHK 668 must be in accordance with the reason for the declaration of the State of Emergency, which has been declared by the Council of Ministers' Decision 2016/9064. The reason and purpose of the Council of Ministers declared Decision 2016/9064 was to take effective and rapid measures against those who participated in the failed coup attempt by the Fetullahist terrorist organization. However, this clause shows that the purpose of removing the reason for the State of Emergency was not to be removed, but to make general and permanent changes that would remain in effect after the end of the State of Emergency. The Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution does not refer to it as "the subject of the State of Emergency," which is referred to in Article 121/3 of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 23 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23/8/2016, dated 15/8/2016, and sentence number 421, be removed from the text of the decree. Dursun Çiçek Kazım Azlan Murat Minister Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Ceyhun İrgil Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Zülfikar Inönu Division Mahmoud Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0303par0302	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0303	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0304par0304	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0305	I'm reading the reason: In accordance with Articles 120/1, and Article 121 of the Constitution, the purpose and scope and scope of KHK 671 must be in accordance with the reason for the declaration of the State of Emergency, which has been declared by the Council of Ministers' Decision 2016/9064. The reason and purpose of the Council of Ministers declared Decision 2016/9064 was to take effective and rapid measures against those who participated in the failed coup attempt by the Fetullahist terrorist organization. However, this clause shows that the purpose of removing the reason for the State of Emergency was not to be removed, but to make general and permanent changes that would remain in effect after the end of the State of Emergency. The Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution does not refer to it as "the subject of the State of Emergency," which is referred to in Article 121/3 of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on the 24th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 24/8/2016 be removed from the decree text of Article 24 of the Constitution, which is currently in session, date 15/8/2016 and number 421. Dursun Çiçek Kazım Azlan Murat Minister Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Ceyhun İrgil Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Zülfikar Inönu Division Mahmoud Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0305par0323	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0324	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0306par0325	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0326	I'm reading the reason: In accordance with Articles 120/1, and Article 121 of the Constitution, the purpose and scope and scope of KHK 671 must be in accordance with the reason for the declaration of the State of Emergency, which has been declared by the Council of Ministers' Decision 2016/9064. The reason and purpose of the Council of Ministers declared Decision 2016/9064 was to take effective and rapid measures against those who participated in the failed coup attempt by the Fetullahist terrorist organization. However, this clause shows that the purpose of removing the reason for the State of Emergency was not to be removed, but to make general and permanent changes that would remain in effect after the end of the State of Emergency. The Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution does not refer to it as "the subject of the State of Emergency," which is referred to in Article 121/3 of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes... those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 25 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 25/8/2016 be removed from the decree text of Article 25 of the Law, which is currently in session, date 15/8/2016, and order 421, and Article 671. Dursun Çiçek Murat Minister Kazim lion Ceyhun İrgil Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Mahmut Tanal Fatma Hurriyet Kaplan Zulfikar Inönü Diary Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0307par0344	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0345	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0308par0346	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0347	I'm reading the reason: In accordance with Articles 120/1, and Article 121 of the Constitution, the purpose and scope and scope of KHK 671 must be in accordance with the reason for the declaration of the State of Emergency, which has been declared by the Council of Ministers' Decision 2016/9064. The reason and purpose of the Council of Ministers declared Decision 2016/9064 was to take effective and rapid measures against those who participated in the failed coup attempt by the Fetullahist terrorist organization. However, this clause shows that the purpose of removing the reason for the State of Emergency was not to be removed, but to make general and permanent changes that would remain in effect after the end of the State of Emergency. The Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution does not refer to it as "the subject of the State of Emergency," which is referred to in Article 121/3 of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Matter accepted. There are three motions on the 26th article, so I'll have them read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following changes of the joke added to Article 3201 after the article (2) after the 421th joke. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hasan Basri Kurt Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Ramazan Can Kerem Ali Constant "At least high school or equivalent school graduates can be taken to vocational training centers with physical competency and interview exams, regardless of the requirement for a public staff selection examination, provided they have not received a day of employment in special operations units at the age of twenty-eight. As part of this joke, it is determined by the Ministry for the procedure and the basis for the duration and manner of education of those who will be taken as part of this joke." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 26 of the Law Against Precautions in the State of Emergency 671, which is currently being held. At least high school or equivalent school graduates who have not received a day-to-day job in special operations units can be admitted to vocational training centres with physical competency and interview exams, without a requirement for a public staff selection examination. Men are required to complete military service. İsmail Faruk Aksu Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Saffet Sandzak Muharrem Varlı Baki Lightning Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 26/8/2016 be removed from the decree text of the Article 26 of the Law, which has been held on 15/8/2016 dates and 421 rows. Dursun Çiçek Kazım Azlan Murat Minister Ceyhun İrgil Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Zülfikar Inönu Division Mahmoud Tanal Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0309par0381	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0382	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0310par0383	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0276par0384	İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0311par0387	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. When we look at the ordinance of the 26th article of the decree issued in the Article (2) of the law issued to us, the requirement for military service is one; two are wanted for more than thirty-six months after the discharge. However, the proposed amendment motion by the government does not require military conditions, nor is a requirement for discharge for 36 months. It's come to mind here that every party member who turns 18 is a cop because they don't have enough party members to be taken from the police. So, dear friends, you're not looking for a test here, just a verbal interview. He has a doctoral thesis called "How Did Malaysia Come Today? " There are 11 states in Malaysia; seven are governed by Sharia; four are governed by secularism. That was the way the police collected the military from political power at the time. So you, without a test, are required to be an 18-year-old in high school graduate, and you will only be able to put these people to the police for verbal interview without any contests. Now, dear friends, we want Turkey, of course, and we want it to be governed by law. In the past, the Fetullah Smiley Community was organizing the organization, and now within the police force, the Range cult is in control. Whoever comes up with references from the range cult -- let me be clear and clear -- could be a cop. No one with no references from the range cult or any references from the Justice and Development Party will ever be a cop. There will be partisan law enforcement here. What's the harm in forming a partisan law enforcement officer? There will be an end to really talented, knowledgeable, well-equipped personnel in the police department. If we don't want to face another coup attempt on July 15th, then we shouldn't allow the government to place it in public institutions by referring to another group of congregations. Do we all say this? We are against corruption. If we're really against corruption, it's another form of corruption to have human kindness in this way. Corruption isn't necessarily about bidding on someone. It is another form of corruption to bring a person there without merit, without a competition basis, without the qualifications and qualities required by service. What does this corruption bring? It brings in inequality, brings in injustice, brings in unrest, disrupts our national unity and unity within society. It also brings bribes with it, dear friends. So, if you go like this, corruption will be torn to shreds from top to bottom. Oh, so who's it going to help, who's it going to hurt? It's gonna hurt society. There's actually a white police state here, and you're going to bring a stain on the honest, honest, non-political, well-meaning cops who do their duty. If we want to heal the lawkeepers, let's raise the additional indicators from 3,000, 3000, to 3,600. Now, next to the Minister, our friends from the military are sitting next to him. Here the police are given such authority over the CMK, about communication... why, for God's sake, do you not want this authority, which is not within the limits of the police? What's your lack of police? I mean, what is it that the gendarme lacks from the police? All their powers are nine in the past. The Department of Corrections gave it to the police, didn't give it to the gendarmes. Now, next to the Minister, the military police will sit down, and all authority will be given to the police. Dear friends, the gendarme is in charge of the powers outside the borders of the police district. I don't understand why the people representing the Turkish Armed Forces here would be afraid to ask for the field -- in equal terms -- in the absence of police authority. Thank you all. I offer my respect and respect.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0312par0398	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 26 of the Law Against Precautions in the State of Emergency 671, which is currently being held. At least high school or equivalent school graduates who have not received a day-to-day job in special operations units can be admitted to vocational training centres with physical competency and interview exams, without a requirement for a public staff selection examination. Men are required to complete military service. Erkan Haberal (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0313par0406	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0312par0407	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0314par0408	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0312par0409	I'm reading the motive, Mr. Master. It is possible that the age requirement for special operations will be raised to 30, as well as that those in the right condition of women will succeed in the examinations. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following changes of the joke added to Article 3201 after the article (2) after the 421th joke. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends "At least high school or equivalent school graduates can be taken to vocational training centers with physical competency and interview exams, regardless of the requirement for a public staff selection examination, provided they have not received a day of employment in special operations units at the age of twenty-eight. As part of this joke, it is determined by the Ministry for the procedure and the basis for the duration and manner of education of those who will be taken as part of this joke." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0315par0419	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0312par0420	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0316par0421	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0317par0422	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0312par0423	I'm reading the reason: KHK No. 676 is intended to be arranged for harmonisation. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion on Article 30, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 30 of the Article 30 of the Court of Law, which is currently in session, be removed from the text of the State of the Law. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hasan Basri Kurt Ramazan Can Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Kerem Ali Constant Haydar Ali Yildiz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0318par0441	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0312par0442	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0319par0443	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0312par0444	I'm reading the reason: Compliance arrangements were made to avoid falling back after. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. The clause was removed from the text with the accepted motion. There are two motions on Article 31, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that the declaration be added to the provision of the provision of the provisions of the Court of Justice, which is in accordance with Article 31, which is in accordance with the Article 421, and to ensure that the provisions of the aiding institutions and chests of these people be taken into effect. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hasan Basri Kurt Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Ramazan Can Kerem Ali Constant Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Haydar Ali Yıldız Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 31 of Article 31 of the Law, which is currently in session, date 15/8/2016 and order 421, be removed from the text of the decree. Dursun Çiçek Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Murat Minister Ceyhun İrgil Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Kazım Azlan Mahmut Tanal Zulfikar Inönu Division Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0320par0467	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0312par0468	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0321par0469	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit06spe0312par0470	I'm reading the reason: The Article No. 671 shall be added to the Article 31, under Article 31, to the Anti-Terror Law, dated 12/4/1991, and to come to Article 3713 after Article 20/13. This clause shows that while it does not carry out its purpose to eliminate the cause of the State of Emergency declaration, general and permanent changes will be made in the usual laws after the State of Emergency has ended. In this context, it is contrary to Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution, which is asked to be removed from the text of the article, since it cannot be defined as the subject required by the Article 121/3 of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 31 of the Court of Justice of the 421th Amendment, which is currently in session... I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit07spe0312par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 18th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Judgement of 421 rows. The Commission and the Government are here. And we're asking our friend, the stenographer who just passed out, once again to get better, and he's doing just fine. May God heal us. We are continuing the motion on Article 31. I'm reading the final motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that the declaration be added after the declaration of the dismissal of Article 31 of the Law on which 421 rows are held, and to ensure that what these people will receive from the aiding institutions and their crates be taken into consideration. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit07spe0322par0011	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit07spe0312par0012	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit07spe0323par0013	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit07spe0312par0014	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to reflect the amendment to Article 88 of Article 676 into the text of the article. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 31st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There is a motion on Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 32 of the Article 32 of the Law, which is currently in session, date 15/8/2016 and order 421, be removed from the text of the decree. Dursun Çiçek Kazım Azlan Murat Minister Ceyhun İrgil Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Zülfikar Inönu Division Mahmoud Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit07spe0324par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit07spe0312par0030	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit07spe0325par0031	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit07spe0312par0032	I'm reading the reason: A temporary clause for the execution of Penalty and Security Measures No. 5275 has been added to Article 32/12/2004. The arrangement includes great injustices and violations of the principle of equality among those who commit the same crimes and leave them out of the scope. A) Current inequalities for those who have committed the same crime under the amendment decree: The exchange text did not include an arrangement for aggravated life sentences and life sentences, with a reduction of execution only in prison sentences. In this case, because of the same type of crime and sometimes due to the same crime, those who have been subjected to aggravated life imprisonment for reasons such as a reduction in appreciation or provocation, help, age, mental health, and enterprise will not benefit from the current reduction in execution, while those who are in the position of accomplices will sometimes not be allowed to take advantage of the current discount. For example: A person sentenced to a aggravated life sentence according to the 95/4 provisions of the TCK under the regulation cannot benefit from a reduced sentence, while his accomplice, who has been sentenced to a sentenceable prison sentence, will be able to take advantage of the current reduction. B) The regulation violates the principle of criminal justice and equality, including the heavier forms of the same crimes while eliminating a number of crimes. In Article 94 of the TCK, the current torture and death crimes were held under the provision of the TCK's genocidal murder charge, which is part of the 76/1-c. Sexual abuse crimes involving TCK in 102, 103, 104, 105 have been held outside the scope of the regulation of sexual abuse crimes in Articles 105, while TCK's sexual abuse crimes involving crimes against humanity in 77/1-f have been held under TCK's torture-related substance of 94/3. In addition to the aggravated injuries and injuries sustained by the TCK, the torture and torture crimes committed on TK's 94th and 95th articles were held under the substance. This sentence cannot be described as an arrangement in the issue of which the extraordinary state, which is in the Article 121/3/3 of the Constitution, makes it necessary. The provision that was asked to be removed from the text of the article is contrary to Article 121 of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 32 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Those who accept Article 33... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 34... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 35... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Now, the Commission has a demand for a reduction before the open vote of the ruling in the law. Here you go, Mr. Commission.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit07spe0326par0054	Mr. President, since the amendments adopted by the General Assembly of the Law shall be passed along with the amendment proposals for the amendments to some Institutions and Institutions of the State of Emergency, there is a request to change the name of the amendment of the ruling in the Article of the Law, which we have discussed in the text, as well as the amendment of the ordinance of the decision referred to to the amendment of the Constitution. I respectfully offer your appreciation.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit07spe0312par0056	This request will be taken into consideration during the writing of the law. The ruling under the law is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[The electronic device started voting.]] Minister, are you going to give a thank-you speech?
tbmm-2016-11-09sit07spe0327par0062	No, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-09sit07spe0312par0063	I thank all the MPs, all the groups, for their hard work, for their efforts. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] In the State of Emergency No. 671, a clear vote on how to organize some Institutions and Institutions is carried out by the State of the Law: ▪ Number of votes used: 215 [[x]] Thus, the decree of the law has been passed. Good luck, good luck. We will begin negotiations with the Court of Justice, number 425, which is found in the third place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Bill 435, which is ranked in the fourth place, the Plan and Budget Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions could not be found after this, the decision was made, on Thursday (November 10, 2016) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 14 p.m. on Thursday (November 10, 2016). I'm closing the assembly at 00, and I wish you good night.
