tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 33th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll be doing round two interviews today. The second round includes Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Foundation, the General Directorate of Foundations, the President of Afet and Emergency Management, the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, the Ataturk Culture Centre, Ataturk Cultural Centre, the Turkish Language Foundation and the final accounts. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, as it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. In the second round, I read the names of the members of the group and their individuals. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Şenal Sarıhan, Bolu MP Tanju Özcan, Çanakkale MP Muharrem Men, Hatay MP Serkan Topal, Hatay MP Mevlüt Dudu, Tekirdağ MP Emre Kurlü, Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırözer, Ankara MP Nihat Yeşer, İzmir MP Mustafa Ali Balbay, Bursa MP Nursel Altaca Kayışoğlu. Members of the AK PARTI Group: Mardin MP Orhan Miroğlu, İstanbul MP Fatma Benli, Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik, Erzurum MP İbrahim Aydemir, Zonguldak MP Faruk Çaturoğlu, Güzhane MP Hacı Osman Akgül, Gaziantep MP Ahmet Uzer, Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu, Elazığ MP Düz MP Düçük Publicapı, İstanbul MP Hakan Köroğlu, Antalya MP Sena Nur Çelik, Ankara MP Ertan Aydın, Kırşehir MP Salih Çetinkaya, Mustafa Köçüklı, Mustafa Köçük MP Mustafa Küçük, Mustafa Köçı MP Mustafa Köçük. Members of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group demanding a statement: Muş MP Burcu Çelik Özkan, Van MP Nadir Yıldırım, Mardin MP Erol Dora, İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan, Diyarbakır MP Ziya Pir, Diyarbakır MP Imam Taşçıer and Siirt MP Cadri Yıldırım. Members of the National Movement Party Group: Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy, Bursa MP Ismet Büğataman, Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın. On the other hand, Ankara MP Ahmet Gündoğdu will also speak for İstanbul MP Izzet Ulvi Yölter and for the government, as well as for the deputy prime minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0002par0049	Mr. President, we have a brief request.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0001par0050	Before we begin the second round of talks, I promise Mr. Private for a minute, according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0002par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone, and I wish you a successful workout. First of all, I'd like to share a story we've just learned from a news channel and a newspaper. We've learned a news report that has been very upsetting to him by the authorities there, disturbing our Parliament, disturbing us, as well as by the theft of his passport during the visit to Germany of our Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı. There's talk of the German police being treated badly and a 45-minute detention. As the Republican People's Party Group, I would like to make it very clear that all members of this House, whether they are abroad or abroad, and especially the representatives of the Presidential Court, represent the entire Assembly, the whole of Turkey, are forced to be detained, and that we find it not acceptable for a congressman to be deprived of the diplomatic courtesy he needs to see outside. Another issue: We were informed of your presentation yesterday; the rotating presidency of the Turkish Group, which used to be the chairman of the elections every two years in the country, returned to the rotating system every six months after joint efforts and long talks, and thus Turkey assumed the presidency of KEIPA. Meanwhile, we would like to express our gratitude to Mr. Ramazan Canίa and to all the MPs representing our Parliament in the KEIPA (KEIPA). Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0003par0061	Yes, thank you very much. On behalf of our Speaker, Mr. Omar Serdar, our Member of the Council of Parliament, the Clerk, was also represented at that meeting.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0002par0063	Oh, yeah? I didn't know.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0003par0064	That's how we thank the esteemed members of all parties. Likewise, in the APA, he was elected Turkish term president for two years at the Asian Parliament Assembly. We really want to thank all the members who were there. For two years, Turkey has been elected to the rotating presidency with the alliance there. This is also very important, because it was very important to be the term president in a region that represents about 70 per cent of the world's population. Once again, the declaration of the ا's declaration that the Turkish Group -- we were there, on behalf of our president -- was in the conclusion of their intense efforts. Again, we had an offer on Syria, which was in the declaration of results with the alliance. These, of course, are extremely important to Turkey, to our House, and in both of them, our Parliamentary President has been elected as chairman of the EPA presidency in both the KEIPA and the EPA. I thank all members of all groups very, very much. In the APA, especially as President of our Van MP Burhan Kayaturk Group, again Şanlıurfa MP Kemalettin Yilmakin, also represented our Karabük MP Burhanettin Uysal and Republican People's Party MP Mr. Barış Karadeniz as well. For a week, we've had some very good talks, and I want to thank you all for your hard work. I've just heard the news about our Deputy Speaker, Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahçkaplı. Of course, I've just heard the news from the newspapers. I haven't seen him yet, but really, it's impossible to accept. We are strongly condemning this kind of treatment to a parliamentary, no matter where, abroad, especially the Speaker of Parliament, a member of the Presidential Court, and in the future -- it was the issue yesterday -- and we have to protect our reputation in common, both in domestic and abroad, as parliamentarians. We also wish Ayþe Nur Hanım well, and we condemn the German authorities for the treatment. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0004par0072	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0003par0073	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0004par0076	Now, we arrive at Parliament at nine o'clock in the morning, the newspaper reading department and magazine reading section of the Turkish National Assembly, where it's turned into a coffee shop. I'm asking you, I'm asking you, that the Library of Congress has reading areas and newspaper reading areas, that there are no job interviews, that there are no conversation areas, and I'm asking you to be sensitive about it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0003par0077	Thank you, Mr. Tanal, we'll pass it on. Hopefully, there'll be a better library and a better social space in the new area.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0004par0079	Sir, this isn't a chat area, so let's use it, shall we?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0003par0080	Thank you very much. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 Members of parliament, the first statement now belongs to Ankara MP Şenal Sarıhan, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Sarihan, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes. Congressmans, since the times are set to be punctual, we will stick to that time for each speaker. Please, we'd appreciate it if you could arrange your conversations that way, and we won't extend the deadlines. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0005par0124	Dear President, I salute you all with respect and love, dear clerks, dear fellow deputies and fellow writers. As we know, we've been talking about a right since Monday. What right is that? Budget rights. The right to budget, as you know, is a right to ensure the sovereignty of Parliament and the people against the monarchy, to open the way for the right use of tax revenues from the people in the right way, and to be used in the right way, and again, in a public way. We're just talking about rights. However, for the past three days, I have observed that talks on the budget remain in the form of technical and monetary talks in the Commission, and here it is developed on the basis of rights. I'll try to follow a line like that in my speech. As you know, the national human rights institutions -- the Human Rights and Equality Foundation I'm talking about -- are an institution that has come up in the second half of the 20th century to remind governments of the responsibility for protecting rights, to take this responsibility into legal and institutional protection. We, unfortunately, only had this in 2013. This year, together, in 2015 and 2016, we conducted legal studies on the regeneration of this institution, both based on our own observations and criticism from the international system on the inadequacy of the Human Rights Institution. What should be the basis for these legal studies, where should we act? As you know, the institution is an institution based on the principles of Paris. We did a parallel study on this, and in the previous legal arrangement, we put it this way, and we said, "We're going to create a Turkey where everyone trusts that their dignity and rights are protected." What kind of work is this institution going to do to create this? He will examine, investigate, investigate, monitor the consequences, report regularly in related areas, do preventive and protective tasks, make visits, make general and private reports, conduct institutional training activities, conduct joint work with the civil society. In order to do that, it has to be independent because it's an institutional structure that's come to light with the awareness that human rights violations are violations of state-source property. Independent of who? He'll be independent of the government. At the same time, how will he react to a guarantee, a guarantee of independence? He'll act as a pluralist. Where's he gonna do pluralism? It's for management. You can all remember that during the drafting of the previous law, the NGOs, who worked in the human rights field of pluralism, were defended by the participation of democratic mass organisations, and at the time only the RSR and the bar representatives were able to attend. Other than that, it could be proposed by the President and the Council of Ministers, with 11 participants. Despite criticism as to that, despite criticism that there is no pluralist, we have handed over this election to the government, the Council of Ministers, in the new arrangement. What is this situation? This is nothing but the fact that justice has been brought before us by the judgment of the court, even a witness and a witness. As a matter of fact, I don't want to do any injustices, the work done during 2015... which shows us that today's budget report -- I don't know how many of our friends -- is the 2015 report, we don't have a report on 2016, so we don't have anything to say about the work of 2016. They've done some good and bad work, they've made some reports, but I've just read to you about whether or not any of these reports have been implemented, and I've already read the law, and how did they end up following... There's a prison, there's an abuse claim in prison, what's the result of this claim, whether there's been an arrest or punishment for the abuser, is there a structure there that protects them from abuse? Or there are some flaws in the women's prison, they've been detected, identified, identified, placed aside. But as for the solution to these... yes, the decision to advise on women has been made, but we do not come across any suggestions as to what the outcome of this recommendation is. Now, to tell you the state of these studies, I'm going to give you a few digits to express the work of this institution of ours about human rights violations in Turkey: Dear friends, one of the most alleged infractions -- detention and convictions have brought up allegations -- prisons; we're looking at 211 applications, and there are 24.5 per cent applications. The right to a fair trial has been expressed by many of our friends for three days -- the state of their prisons, the problems with detention processes -- 77 applications, 9 per cent applications. Today, at work, the last time we met, in a so-called national education protected, under his control, as long as our children's fires burn us down, there were 4 rights violations; there were 4 applications and 5 percent. There were eight applications for the ban on torture. There were 21 applications for abuse. Women's violence is always referred to as the protection of the family, with only three applications. Now, so few applications have been applied, so what does the law say? You have to do your own research, he says. This investigation, unfortunately, wasn't done in any way. Again, I'm going to talk about the distribution of the provinces from where it's made. There are 113 applications from Ankara. There are eight applications from Diyarbakır, where 10 of our friends are currently in prison, where HDP friends are more elected. There are 98 applications from İstanbul, 7 from Şırnak. There are 24 applications from Izmir (Izmir) and 2 from Mardin. There are 22 applications from Balıkesir, 2 from Hakkari. There has been no application for this institution, which is most publicized by the international system's criticism of us, the curfews, the right to live violations, the abuse violations, and the institution has not been required to do any research on this subject. I'm running out of time, and actually, I'm not able to express any more of my sentences because the violations are mountain-like. However, yesterday, Mr. Minister of Justice made a statement, referring to Mr. President, he said: "Your touch burns." That logic, my dear friends, is a logic that will burn the country down. If you're concerned about protecting basic human rights, freedom of thought, freedom of organization, freedom of assembly, freedom of the press, and above all... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...about the protection of our right to live, if we tell the president to touch him, Turkey will burn, I warn you from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0006par0140	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. In turn, it belongs to Bolu MP Tanju Özcan. Mr. Özcan, your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I'd like to start by asking all of our religious, sincere, Muslim AKP lawmakers a question. Is waste forbidden? I don't think anyone would call that a no. The Lord God commands you in the Qur'an, saying, "Eat, drink, and do not waste." Waste is certainly forbidden. Look, today we're talking about the budget. The Human Rights and Equality Foundation... in my opinion, it's a waste of money to put a budget on an institution that has a sign, but it's empty. The blind are deaf, like an institution where they care about each other. Now we're going to talk about human rights. During your rule, human rights were already suspended, and you and the State of Emergency made it legal. Now, talking about the budget of such an institution in an environment where human rights have already been suspended is a waste to me, and waste is a sin to me. I want to make this clear from the top. Congressmans, of course, you're very interested in human rights -- I'm telling the AKP lawmakers -- it's not a matter, we know that. We know that because of past practices and rhetoric. In the Constitution, there is a sentence that we do not think is sufficient; there is a declaration of respect for human rights. We say it should be based on human rights. But, unfortunately, you don't know the Supreme Court's ruling in the sense of lawlessness. Even basic human rights were suspended during your administration. When you say basic human rights, look, the right to live, the privilege of privacy, privacy, housing immunity, the right to choose and be elected... we see that you have no respect for any of this, this society is living through it. You don't even take them seriously. I'm not the only one who's saying that from the council bench. Look at the European Court of Human Rights rulings. When you look at the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, it's the period when we're most convicted of human rights violations during the period of your government, lawmakers. This is extremely serious. Now, in the coming process, we're going to have even more trouble. Why are we going to have trouble? We say it all the time, okay, let's fight the victim, but let's separate the victims. Look, there are thousands of public personnel who have been expelled without even a public investigation, thousands of victims, not all victims, thousands of victims. These will eventually knock on the door of the European Court of Human Rights because there was no investigation, there was no fair trial. If you look at the past proceedings of the European Court of Human Rights, Turkey will condemn it today. I suggest you reconsider. Seriously, Turkey has been convicted over and over again by the European Court of Human Rights, which will have a record increase in the next year or the next year. I want you to take this opportunity. You also ignore millions of people in Turkey. Look, we're constantly saying here, we have millions of Alevi citizens, let's respect their rights, let's listen to them, but you're persistently covering your ears on this very important issue as the AKP Group. Congressmans, I also have to say a few words about equality. Equality in Article 10 of the Constitution. Indeed, Ataturk was a great leader, founded the state of the Republic of Turkey on the basis of equality, and thus revealed success stories in the Republic of Turkey. For example, the life of the President you love so much is a success story. Taking advantage of the equality provided by the Republic, Recep Tayyip Erdogan's son, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who went to elementary school with a hole shoe, was able to become the country's President today, taking advantage of the opportunities of the republic.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0008par0152	Mr. Tanju is not a boatman. It's not a boatman, just fix it. He's not a boatman. He's not a boatman.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0153	Look, I'll give you an example of myself. I'm a grandson of a forest peasant grandfather.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0008par0154	Don't say "smaller" with contempt. It's not a boatman, just fix it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0155	We were children of a poor family. He had my father read it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0008par0156	Fix it, not the boatman.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0157	We'll fix it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0008par0158	He's not a boatman.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0159	My dad had me read it, so I made it here as a congressman. How important this is. But now the equality of opportunity is in the background of your transition. Now, I'm one of those who think that in the next 20 years, it won't even be possible to do politics in this Parliament, except for the children of you and the privileged groups. I'm pretty pessimistic about this, lawmakers. Of course, while we're on the subject, I'd also like to talk about something that's been forgotten and forgotten. Members of parliament, Mr. Prime Minister or Mr. President, he's always giving nationalist speeches, talking about taking Mosul, taking Kerkuk, is that right?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0009par0161	It's not.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0162	He talks about this, about how Syria would be divided, about land gain.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0010par0163	Who's that?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0164	You're not sincere about this, you know why you're not?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0011par0165	That's not true either. You haven't read anything, you haven't read anything carefully.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0166	You made 18 of our men go after the Greeks right under our noses.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0012par0167	Nobody's saying that, Mr. Tanju.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0011par0168	It's in your history, it's written, it's in your history, it's in your history, who made the Greeks chase the islands.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0169	Look, lawmakers, I've had a lot of blackouts these days. Look, if you don't do what's necessary, he's on our island...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0011par0170	Where the twelve islands are drawn from... sit down, read history.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0171	If you don't raise the Greek flag as a government, I'm blacked out...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0011par0172	Sit down, read history.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0173	I'm determined that if I have to go to those islands, I'll draw the Turkish flag to those islands alone. About that, look, I'm very determined, don't.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0011par0174	Sit down, read history.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0175	Congressmans, I'd like to say one more thing at the last minute. In the coming days, this presidential system -- its name is the presidential system -- is going to be on the agenda no matter what. Our main objection is that in a democratic system, don't put all authority on a person, it's wrong. It doesn't matter who this person is. For example, in your group, I have a friend who I love very much, and our group trusts a lot, and that's how good a person is, isn't it? Not even Mr. Kabbat will be given this much authority. Even if you gave it to Mr. Kabbat, you would derail that man.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0013par0177	You're composing it. Mr. Özcan, you're disputing our friends, no, that's not true.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0178	So, on the basis of this budget interview...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0014par0179	Let him come, let the custody regimes rule the country, then let him rule the custody regimes. Our problem is custody.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0180	I'm going to leave all the MPs with their consciences -- especially my friends in the AKP -- about this draft of the Constitution that's going to come our way. I expect people to vote for the greater good, not for the greater good. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0015par0183	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. Mr. President is not a boatman, we specifically wanted you to fix this.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0185	Let's call him Captain.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0015par0186	I mean, let's be honest, on this stand, please, let's talk about the truth.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0187	I didn't mean to insult him, but I used the opposite word of praise.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0015par0188	Let's talk about the truth. Besides, we all have to work together on national matters.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0007par0189	It wasn't for trial, it wasn't.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0016par0190	But, no!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0017par0191	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0018par0192	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0017par0193	Mr. President, budget talks have its own power, its own way; it's normal, it's out of routine, it's on the stand, it's in our position here. So I'll leave the right to respond to today's talks to the AK PARTY Group in a moment. However, I would like to state that this is a matter of islands, whether it's a matter of human rights, that it's completely wrong, that it's completely unreal, for the record, the AK PARTI will answer that very soon.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0018par0194	Thank you. Now it's time for the Çanakkale MP Muharrem Man. Here you go, Mr. Man. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0019par0199	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Yes, we're negotiating the budget. Yesterday we discussed the presidential budget, but unfortunately, we still haven't learned the cost of the Presidential Palace, and the monthly cost of the Presidential Palace, and we haven't even learned in budget negotiations.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0020par0201	Do you know the Çanakkale budget?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0019par0202	I know, I know.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0020par0203	Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0019par0204	Look, Mr. President says two or three cars in a house are a waste. We, as a nation, have the right to know how many vehicles have been assigned to the presidential office as MP, how many planes have been assigned -- of course it will be -- but we have the right to know their costs and expenses. Because, unfortunately, in this country, the state doesn't build dorms in this country, little children die burning in the homes of cults and congregations. For him, it's our right to know. But, we're asking this question, we're not getting any answers. The Deputy Prime Minister said yesterday that you are not talking about the presidency of foreign states. Of course we're not talking about it, not to me, not to mention the foreign government's presidential budget. But it's probably our right to know in detail the budget of my own country, my own state, the presidency. Yeah, I made a commitment to the Foundation General Directorate budget. Our General Directorate of Foundations, unfortunately, is one of the institutions that has recently supported the growth, construction of the Fetullah Gulen community.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0021par0206	The terrorist group...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0019par0207	It used to be, you called it Fetullah Gülen. We're talking about a foundation that's been shut down. How was this permit granted by the General Directorate of Foundations? How did the General Directorate of Foundations help to grow so much? Look, the foundations are the corporateized corporate personalities of cooperation, the foundations are the systems that aim for people's happiness, but we see that as we come to this point, just as the state has left the social state work aside, so have the General Directorate of the Foundations left many tasks to other institutions. There's a sad picture in our country, and we won't be afraid to speak the truth, precious MPs. See, in 2006, sexual harassment and harassment cases against children -- 2,414 cases were filed in 2006, the number of cases filed in 2015 -- increased by 700 per cent in 16,957 years, 10 years. How do we explain this? Where do these allegations of sexual abuse, harassment against children come to light? Why aren't these foundations closed? Where's it coming from? How about a 700 percent increase? Have we become a government, a power that can't even protect our children? Today, over 1 million children are in the hands of religious foundations, so please, let's pay attention, control, control, and protect our children. Let's not let holy religion be abused because religion is based on morality. Look, this statistic I gave you actually shows a moral breakdown. Morality is down, justice is down, the economy is down, there are 7 million unemployed, millions of our people are unfortunately living under the poverty and hunger line, and in foreign policy, we have the saddest picture of our history. What's wrong with us? Our concern is to take the country to the one authoritarian man under the presidential packaging and establish constitutional dictatorship instead of constitutional democracy. Look, I'll tell you something about foreign policy, four days and five days ago, a Syrian plane took off, shot down the Turkish Union, where Mehmetchikler was killed. The government confirmed that this plane belonged to Syria. Well, I particularly want to ask the ruling group: Is it possible that the Syrian plane could take off without Russia's approval, that it could hit our unit? Do you believe that? What kind of foreign policy is that? What kind of love for the country? Why can't we have an attitude about this? Look, our problem now is that despite all our problems, we shouldn't be building a constitutional dictatorship. There are parliamentary systems like Turkey, Austria, Ireland, Iceland, Bulgaria. Around here, the president is elected by the public, but the system is parliamentary. Why do people pick the president around here? Because it's not so the president can use political power to represent national unity. Because the political power center is parliament, and it's the government out of the majority of parliament, and it's his responsibility. Our Constitution also envisions this; the position of the president is defined in Article 103, 104, 112, as well as the position of the government, the prime minister. In parliamentary systems elected by the public, the President acts in accordance with the spirit of the parliamentary system, does not use political preferences without the government's recommendation, and does not use the executive authority alone. In these countries, the president does not have the authority to issue a decree in the rule of law by the president elected by the people alone. Look, I want to stress something about the offer you made. You know, the first four articles can't be changed, and the first four articles won't change. You're actually touching the essence of the first four articles because the proposal you're making is a deeply damaging proposal for the democratic state of the Constitution, which, unfortunately, is part of Article 2 of the Constitution. Because you are strengthening the House, Parliament, democracy, not just one person. We founded the House in 1920, and this republic took power from the palace, giving it to parliament, to the nation. Today, you want to take power back from the House, from the people, to the palace, but we will never allow it. (Applause from CHP rows) If the referendum takes place in Parliament, then the referendum will win this fight, not the ruling lovers, but the patriots. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0022par0216	Thank you. Hatay MP Serkan Topal is now in charge. Here you go, Mr. Clumsy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0023par0221	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The heart would want to talk about the successes of a search rescue operation in hundreds of search and rescue operations when speaking on the budget of AFAD (AFAD), but unfortunately, the help gathered in Turkey is neither in accordance with the Law for Help nor in accordance with its purpose. We've been able to see that, unfortunately. Now, in 2016, Deputy Prime Minister said that social benefits would be 41.6 billion dollars. But is there any authority among us that knows how to spend billions of dollars, where to spend it, how much of it that AFAD spends and which control it is subject to? No. TOKI has built northern star dwellings on the creek bed in Samsun, floods floods, four of whom have lost their lives. Have any of you friends seen the AFAD (AFAD) there that should prioritize work on pre-disaster protection, such as loss and harm reduction, preparation, forecasting, and early warning, disasters, and impact analysis? No. So far, 548,000 Syrians have entered temporary housing centres and 260,000 Syrian camps are hosted. In addition, there are over 3 million Syrians in our country outside the temporary housing centers. We have no objection to refugees, asylum seekers who, as a victim of war, have had to get away from their homes. We have a door open, but we have no safety left. Look, just four months ago, two Syrians who were killed in the explosion in the house in Reyhan were killed in an explosion, and they had AFAD cards in their pockets, and they had a long barrel of guns, two pistols, and so on. What district of Hatay were these two terrorists going to set off a bomb? Did the AFAD look into this? AFAD spent $8 billion on Syrians by January 2016. According to today's figures, $12 billion, which is only $4 billion this year. If it weren't for this blinding war, there'd be 3,975 schools with 8 classes at $4 billion. With $4 billion, 728 hospitals could be built with all medical equipment. With $4 billion, there could be 9,334 student dorms with four beds in their rooms, where the children didn't burn to death and all their needs were provided for. However, we don't know how these $4 billion are being spent off-site with the AFAD hand, which is also in the Court reports. Helping those in need is a requirement of the social state principle, but it needs to preserve human dignity and improve their social function. Is there any transparent, systematic project besides making these people dependent? No. How long is this war going to last, anyone who can predict it? I don't have that either. We're not saying no help, but if you forget about the gas that hit your prosthetic leg when you paid billions of dollars for Syrian refugees, if you forget about the martyr father who was mortgaged because he couldn't pay the bank loan...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0024par0229	That's a very provocative language.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0023par0230	I'm afraid you won't be able to get justice if you forget the 40-day frost baby who died of cold because his slum was unchanged. If you open a Syrian consulting office and forget your own citizen in Hatay, you will not be able to maintain peace. If our citizens who have the same problems can't benefit from the resources provided by AFAD, I'd like to ask who is a refugee and who is a citizen in this land. Who is it that boasts about the education of Syrian children that has caused our 11 children to die and cannot make a proper home in Adana? This needs to be investigated. If tens of thousands of people wait in the bread lines every morning in my beautiful hometown just because it's 30 cents cheaper, if you've got the people of Anatolia, the cradle of civilization, booing each other at the funeral, if the citizens of the Republic of Turkey are being beaten by bodyguards because the martyr cried out for their pain, I don't know how good the budget will be if they don't value a refugee in their own country anymore. But it will happen quickly, dear friends, that the citizens whose money has been reset, and the mother of Berkin, and the mother of Berkin, whose mother has been booed, and the tears of her children, and the citizens whose children have not been cared for as much as a refugee, and the children who have been burned to death in illegal homes, and the victims who have not been heard of rebellion. Although, wherever there's a victim, we can see you're playing the best victim, unfortunately. On this very stand, if you remember, the late Kamer Young said this Fetullah Gulen would trouble you. But you walked on this very stand. You sit at the table with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and you say that when things went wrong, we were deceived. You say, "When things went wrong, we were deceived." You say, "When things went wrong, we were deceived." Dear friends, we knew about the AKP's opening, but it turns out it was the party of the deceived and the deceived. With that understanding, unfortunately, we don't think you can fight terrorism. Therefore, we believe that you and the State of Emergency are seeking opposition. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0025par0236	If you had spoken to Esed, you should have spoken to Esed, who threw a bomb at them from Syria.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0026par0237	Mr. Secretary, you'll have your say then, you've got eighty minutes, 80 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0027par0238	Hatay MP Mevlüt Dudu is now in charge. Your time is seven minutes. Here you go, Mr. Dudu.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0028par0242	Mr. President, dear MPs, I respectfully salute our esteemed citizens who are watching us at the very beginning of the Grand Assembly and its screens. I have made a pledge to the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency in the Central Management Budget Bill of 2017. My dear friends, in the Plan Budget Commission, I followed the Foreign Ministry's budget from beginning to end. In his speech and presentation, Mr. Foreign Minister referred to long Saudi Arabia, Qatar and other Gulf countries, but he didn't say a word about Turkish republics or Turks living abroad. A vision and strategy for the development of strong co-operation with Turkish republics and foreign Turks has not been established in this budget. Also, what you did in Turkey, the polarization of the AKP in Turkey, unfortunately, is especially applied to our Turkmen brothers in Syria and Iraq. That's when you said we'd be at the table in Mosul. You said we'd be at the table, but we're not at the table. So, have you ever wondered why we're not here? Even the Turkishmen commanders in Mosul and Iraq today, we don't want Turkey, let Turkey not come here, don't interfere with Mosul. If he says so, my beautiful brother, will America take you there? Do the Iraqi government want you in Musul today, when you don't know the Iraq administration at the Bashika camp you founded with the permission of Musul Governor Nuceyfi? Of course not. Dear lawmakers, foreign policy is built on facts, no foreign policy with adventurous emotions, no roughnecking. You can make it seem right for a while with your perception operations inside, but you don't stand a chance in foreign policy, in international politics, you'll soon hit the wall of reality, just like in Syria. Look, in Syria, from the beginning, the AKP has accused us of being guilty and bucu. But we've always pointed out Turkey's national security since day one, where the fire will eventually spread to Turkey. I'm afraid so. I don't want to tell you what happened, it's not a good time. But on August 18th, Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivor, with this sentence, like the solution process and confessions, added a new confession to the caravan of confessions and said: "What we experience in our country today is the result of our mistakes in Syria." Yes, indeed it is. Today, there is a very serious invoice, a human drama stemming from Syrian policy; millions of people from their homeland are today, at first, Turkey, but in the end, a huge sociological problem for the whole world. My dear friends, we are the Republican People's Party to support the operation of the Fırat Shield on Syria, but to what end? As far as we're concerned. Going one step further from here means falling into that pot of witches in Syria and the Middle East. Therefore, this should never be wrong. Dear lawmakers, as well as one of the last days, one of Lausanne's polemics is going, Lausanne; Lausanne's criticisms are from the top authorities of the state, the government's authorities. Lausanne, frankly, is the greatest diplomatic victory in the history of the Republic of Turkey. (Applause from CHP rows) Lauzan is the continuation of the National Liberation War in diplomacy, the title of the Republic of Turkey. Therefore, to oppose Lausanne, to criticize Lausanne, to make it clear and clear, to question the existence of this land, its existence, its criticism. Later, twelve islands were said to have been lost in Lausanne. My dear friends, what are you talking about? There are 18 islands in the Aegean, right under our noses, 18 islands.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0029par0249	Don't do that!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0028par0250	There's still no serious statement from the government on this matter. We have 18 Greek flags standing on our island, Greece landing troops, building municipalities, but there's not a word from this government. I leave this to the discretion of the High Council and its citizens. Of course, we call it 18 islands, but it's very serious again, we have a problem with islands, Cyprus. Something's happening in Cyprus. The talks ended in Cyprus, but on January 9th, Akincı and Anastasiadis will meet again in Switzerland. Dear lawmakers, we all really need to be very sensitive about this, very seriously. Because we have followed the talks in Cyprus as the Republican People's Party; Turkey's garantism is not wanted; land is wanted; a two-societ equality is not wanted; there is a government that aims to make Turks a minority; it aims to make Turkish Cypriots a minority. Dear lawmakers, we never accept the government's policy concerning the European Union. The European Union is Turkey's 60-year-old dream, and no one can erase it in a heartbeat. The cost would be too high for everyone, for this country in the first place. I'm warning the government about that, too. My love, my respect.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0030par0255	Thank you. The order belongs to Tekirdağ MP Emre Bridgelı. Here you go, Mr. Bridge.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0031par0259	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, as every public institution in our country, the President of the Foreign Turkish and Relative Communitys also has an institutional purpose. The public interest in the existence of this institution is to gather, improve, coordinate, and address the problems of our citizens abroad, our relatives, and our relatives. That's the goal. For this purpose, as it is known, in the early 1990s, TİKA was established years ago, but it was also committed in 2010 to the presidency of Turks and Relatives abroad, for reasons of lack of co-ordination and TKA's excessive interest in technical and development at certain points. In fact, when we looked at the institution's founding motive, the institution was established because TİKA (TİKA) was too busy dealing with technical matters, unable to provide solutions to other problems, and though he wanted to produce them, its activities would fail and its reputation would be damaged. Now, what are the problems that are highlighted here, underlined, to come up with solutions? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister has his findings in the Commission, and we have our findings; most of them are partners. So the problems facing our citizens and relatives abroad, foreign hostility, discrimination, Islamophobia, the lack of the right to education, particularly the failure of the international agreements in Greece, the failure of the state, the equality of opportunity and social life. So the institution is an institution that will solve the problems of millions of soybeans and seek solutions; that's its purpose, that's its purpose. Now, members of parliament, on top of its name, the President of the Foreign Turkish and Relative Community. We need to split the containment field in two. Number one: citizens overseas, over 6 million. Second: relatives and relatives, which include a wider area and population, including the concept of a citizen, and what we refer to as the population, are citizens and relatives from Russia to China, Iraq, Bulgaria and Greece, who live mostly in Europe and have historical and cultural ties, from Russia to China, Iraq to the Balkan countries. It has to be stated that the purpose of its establishment here is a sacred cause, and the problems are real. So, when we think of China's Sincan region, Mosul, Kerkuk, Russia's Caucasus, the Balkans, we can't expect to leave our relatives and relatives in this region unattended. We can't ignore their problems. So far, we're all set. So what are the ways of the institution to treat these problems, what are its activities? Here, we have a big problem right here. The only activity of this institution, which has taken a serious share of the budget, has, unfortunately, gone beyond giving scholarships to international students. Now, apart from a few conferences he's been doing, there's nothing else the agency has done besides a scholarship organisation. No doubt this is important, and this is a sacred mission, which is an important activity, but there are goals beyond that in the institution's establishment, there are needs beyond that. How will we deal with problems such as fighting discrimination, fighting foreign hostility, fighting Islamophobia, giving scholarships only to international students? In this way, how will we achieve our goals? The institution, which will develop strategy, lobbying, building projects, is on a trust job, stuck in it, has done nothing but give scholarships to foreign students and cash in a few projects. Now, if foreign students need scholarships, of course, we support them, we support them to the end, but let the Ministry of National Education do it, and let this institution develop and produce projects that are its main purpose. So, this six-year institution was founded in 2010, and it's already aged, unable to produce, unable to develop a project. The institution must immediately take on a structure that serves its purpose. What was the point? The purpose of the institution founded by law in 2010 was also said to have been established to accomplish what the TİKA (TİKA) failed to achieve, which is true, but note these findings. Look, it's the institution that's going to succeed in what TİKA (TİKA) has failed to achieve. Now, the valued MPs, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, are in Bulgaria, where 800,000 Turks live -- you know -- there is no TİKA. There is no TİKA in Gümülcine, İskece, Istanbul, Rhodes, and Greece, where over 150,000 Turks live. There is no TİKA in China, Russia, Iraq, where we have millions of relatives and relatives. In these countries, where there is no TİKA (TİKA) we are looking at, there is no activity, there is no project. Now, how are you going to accomplish your goals in Cameroon, Djibouti, Mexico, Senegal, TİKA, and in Bulgaria, Greece, Iraq, Russia, China? Let's give a round of applause for opening a branch in Mexico, but if you're not in Bulgaria, how will you accomplish your goals if you're not with 800,000 Turks? So, members of lawmakers, unfortunately, the practices of foreign policy are the result of the embodiment. Expansions and inconsistencies in foreign policy should also be known about our family members and relatives abroad that are causing serious consequences. Our comments need to be balanced and firm enough to prevent the one who does not exceed our patience. As long as our actions are not consistent from today to tomorrow, it should be known that the consequences of this in our country are much more than that, and much more than that, our citizens, our kinsmen, our relatives. So, in this very environment, the international Turks and Relative Communitys have to be there for millions of people in corporate philosophy, to return to the institutional purpose. I once again warn both the political power and the institution at this point, and once again salute your grand coven. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0032par0270	Thank you. Now, Eskişehir MP Utku Cakirözer will speak. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Cakirözer, your time is 16 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0033par0275	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I want to wish our 2017 budget, the budgets of our institutions that we first met today, well done, to our bureaucrats, and to all our lawmakers who contributed to the commission. My dear friends, in the first decade of the 2000s, Turkey had a story, a country determined to become an EU member with its power, reforming its Constitution. In a desire to strengthen human rights, the state of law and democracy, a growing, developing Turkey is a shining star among developing countries. For some time now, there has been talk of a new story, a new scenario for Turkey. We've been hearing this new story a lot lately. What are these new predictions? A few years of low or negative growth, high unemployment, increasing public debt, increasing inflation, and unfortunately, these pessimistic predictions are no longer overturned. Now, you've seen it today -- you've seen it in newspapers -- and we've added salt and pepper in our training. Just four years ago, our children have gone further back in education, in quality of education, much later, from the end to the second. On this bench, I, my friends, the opposition MPs are the most fundamental issue to clear the way for education Turkey. We said so much, but we never listened. How Turkey's story came to this point, why such new scenarios became available, is something we need to focus on. First of all, there's no stability, no predictability. Secondly, we're quickly getting away from the state of law, from democracy, and thirdly, our economy has been hit by the mistakes we've made in foreign policy. Yes, we've all seen, together, that the only party for fifteen years doesn't mean political stability. On the night of the 15th of July, we saw it in this great House in person with a coup attempt. There will be no more coups in Turkey. In 2016, they bombed our Parliament, turned tanks, rifles over our people. If we hadn't stopped that night with our constitutional institutions, with our House, with our parties, and most importantly with our people, maybe none of us would have been here today. Therefore, once again, I thank the saints who lost their lives that night, and wish our wounded well. Members of the government, my dear friends, you've had trouble telling the world about the coup attempt since the first day, and you're still suffering. Despite all the efforts of opposition parties, we lawmakers, under the bombs that night and then to protect democracy, you can't tell the world. Well, at this point, the second thing I'm saying comes up. It's a matter of democracy and the state of law. We have to make sure that our citizen has confidence in justice in every aspect of his life, in the principles of the universal state of law. Those who plan and execute this bloody coup must be fought to the end with their supporters, they must be judged fairly, the harshest punishments must be given, none of us have the slightest hesitation in this matter, but if you put the people, the people who write, the people who think, the people who don't like their criticism, into prisons under the conditions of the State of Emergency, then we will have a hard time explaining this struggle. Our struggle should be with the one with the gun, pointing it at our citizens, our police, our soldiers. What the hell is a 70-year-old linguist, Necmiye Albay, doing in Bakırköy Prison? Look, his 4th month is over. It's the membership of a newspaper's advisory board; it's a council of advisors that's never met. All he wants is peace, peace, and brotherhood to come to this country, which is why he has symbolic support. Do we support the publications of that newspaper? No. But we don't support the imprisonment of such a scientist because of an uncongregated council membership. If you must judge, judge these people without arrest. You can't tell the world about keeping Musa Kart, writer Ali Bulaç, writer Kasdri Gürsel, journalist Murat Soapcu, in prison for months from his profession and family. In Turkey, you can't talk about putting Turhan Günay, editor of the country's most radical book collection, which is well-known by book lovers, and bringing a book ban on it. If you continue to keep Aslı Erdogan, Turkey's world-renowned novelist, in prison despite health problems, the 72-year-old Şahin Albany, who lives in prison with 11 chronic diseases and 74-year-old Mardin Mayor Ahmet Turk, who lives with a pacemaker, no one will believe in the coup or the fight against terrorism. By the Constitutional Court's decision, if you arrest lawmakers who must be tried without arrest until their verdict is finalized, we cannot tell our own people or the world about our fight against terrorism. If you throw out teachers, academics who have nothing to do with this opportunity, because of this opportunity, if you throw them out because they're opponents, if you give them a job, if you give them a shot, they won't listen to any of us. Despite the principle of personality of crime, we can't tell the world about the victimization of family members, spouses, children of those arrested on the charges, we can't talk to lawyers on camera; no one will listen to our words about democracy if you forbid writing letters, reading books. He hasn't made a ten-minute phone call to his nine-year-old son in 30 days. Either there's a bureaucratic obstacle, or the lawyer gets a phone call on the day he's got a cognitive vision. Yesterday, we passed on this, and with the initiatives of the Justice Department officials, he was able to arrange a ten-minute meeting for next week. The day you get a phone call, you need a phone call. Ahmet Turan says that he wrote four months ago, and that the letter still did not arrive from Silivri. My dear friends, reports are being written in a row about rights violations that have been raised or brought up in Turkey during the fight against coupgers after July 15th. Who's doing it? Amnesty International. Who's doing it? U.N. Reporter for Torture and Evil Response. What are they saying? We were under the impression that there was widespread torture and abuse. Look, I'm going to talk to you about the statements made by UN Reporter Melzer, the statements he made in his preliminary report. He goes to prisons with a medical examiner, meets with ministries, meets with judicial institutions. He says that the government's extensive measures against the July 15 coup attempt create a fear and insecurities in large parts of society, preventing not only those arrested and their families but even civil society organisations, jurisprudence and doctors from starting the process that criticises officials. According to Melzer, new laws and decrees also create conditions for torture and abuse. He emphasises that these violations were committed especially during detention and in custody. He says that the coroner he took with him examined the people who were interviewed and that the physical signatures consistent with the events described in some of them were detected. Prisons have observations of the state of prisons. He says the capacity exceeds 200 percent. These places, or places that are kept in detention for 30 days, are not fit for people to be held for more than 48 hours. In this regard, we, opposition lawmakers, also have a call to the Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights Review, so that we can go and watch these prisons, these jails, in their place. So far, no results. We're calling on the ruling party to support it. My dear friends, there's an institution today where we discuss this budget for human rights: Turkey's Human Rights and Equality. Because of the visa-free travel talks with the EU, we supported the establishment of this institution, working together until the middle of the night. Shouldn't this claim be handled by the previous or present institution, friends, before anyone else? That's what we built this institution for. One of their main goals -- Mr. Secretary will probably tell us in his presentation today because he told us in the Commission -- is to set up a national prevention mechanism against torture and abuse. As this institution was forming, civil society called for advice, asked for independent consultation, asked for independent employment; as the main opposition, we said, but we saw together that this state of the law did not meet the international obligations nor the expectations of the EU. As a matter of fact, the European Union, in its statement, explained this issue among the unsatisfactory issues. We have also established the Human Rights and Equality Council as a decision-making body for this institution, but it is not independent; it will be elected by the Council of Ministers and the President of the 3 members. We expect such a ruling institution to intervene in human rights violations in Turkey, so let him respond to these claims, whether it is true or wrong, to what extent it is true. We criticize that he's not independent, but the board doesn't exist -- and soon Mr. Secretary will explain -- sitting in a place where they don't even spend their budgets. That won't do, my friends. Look, last year's budget was $4,833,000, 75 per cent of which he didn't use, he returned his budget, half of which was used for staff expenses. In 2016, there is a budget of $5,975,000, and at the end of August, he used only $1,369,000. When are my friends going to work when the Human Rights and Equality Committee doesn't work these days? I said the third issue was foreign policy. Turkish foreign policy always has two critical axes to pay attention to. The first is to stay in the Western values, to stay in the goal of the conflict, and the second is to be in a country that is not the cause of the conflicts in our area, but is a country that provides solutions, guarantees the stability of its neighbours and region, peace, peace. Let me start with the second: Turkey today is seen as a conflicting country by neighbouring countries and countries in its region. Here's our Syrian policy: to support armed opponents to make Assad go away, there's no precedent in our history. After the defeat of Muslim Brothers' power with a military coup that we did not accept, we cut off our ties with Egypt, and now we want to correct relations, but the President won't allow it. We want a moratorium in Egypt to prevent the execution of Mursi. But we want the death penalty in our own country. Here is Iraq: The issue of the camp in the capital should be resolved by the administration in Baghdad, but we are trying to solve it with the regional Kurdistan administration. Then there's a crisis, we send him to solve our Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs, but there's also an inverse statement saying, "What are we going to talk about from the top of the state?" A troubled relationship with Iran. With Russia, it is not that relations have improved after a process of apology that has actually undermined our reputation, but relations are still improving unilaterally, improving in favor of Russia. Look, there's still no solution to the problems of the tomato maker, the vegetable fruit maker. We're also discussing the budget of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency's presidency; they're celebrating the 25th year, and they're doing a great job. Our ministers will say: "The activities of the TİKA (TİKA) point to Turkey's international position. It's a very important office for public diplomacy and publicity. They have 60 offices, they have operations in 150 countries, they have thousands of projects. They're all good, they're good, but do they reflect on Turkey's global reputation, how do they contribute? I'll give you an example: Turkey was nominated for the United Nations Security Council in 2008 as a temporary member, during the AKP era. Turkey became a member of the 151-nation vote. Six years later, another vote was held in 2014, and our country was nominated once again. My dear friends, I announce the outcome: Turkey has only received the support of 60 countries. If we look at the list, I'm sure many countries with TİKA offices have taken a stand against us. In Seychelles, where we pride ourselves on these projects, in Zimbabwe, in Djibouti, in Vanuatu, in the countries like Kiribati, when our activities are in place, it means that my friends, who have not been rewarded in public diplomacy, have not found the amount of billions of dollars spent on the project, but have not been paid in spite of our dollar taxes. For this reason, we are excited by some of the projects of TICA, such as restoration and so on, especially in nearby geography. In fact, those of us who are related to the other side of the water, hundreds of thousands of relatives who are there, why not in Bulgaria, why not in Western Thrace, why not in Greece, and why not, we are willing to give you all kinds of support to make it happen. But I want to say that it's important to be the world's 2nd country in aid, to be the most generous country, to invest in distant geography, but if foreign policy doesn't reassure the world, it's a waste of resources. My dear friends, the second important parameter in foreign policy is relations with Western institutions. There have been times in the past when our relations with the West were bad, and does the West have nothing to do with it? Of course I do. The preconceptions there, the approaches leading to racism, of course, affect relationships, our people, you, us, but you also know that in other times our relationships are good, with the same prejudices and the approaches to racism, Islamophobia. So, look, at a time when Islamophobia peaked in the world just after 9/11, we won the European Union's full membership candidacy. So, what's the difference, my dear friends? The times when we had a crisis with the West, with Europe, were the era of antidemocratic initiatives, coups, interventions, when our democracy went back. So, what did we do to fix it? We reformed. Before 2002 and after you came to power, we opened the way for the European Union through the amendments to the Constitution and the law. In Germany, in France, there were prejudices at that time, there were prejudicial leaders at that time, but the general trend was that we were moving forward with our democracy, with our freedoms. Now, I think what's going to open the way is again democracy, the state of law, despite the European Parliament's decision to open the way. So, in 2004, we need to listen to today's warning from the European people, who say they want Turkey with their banners. You may not like the decision, but it shows the European people's view of Turkey. It's a racist, it's not an Islamophobic approach, it's a result of Turkey's pressures on its own country, its own people, my dear friends. My dear friends, another constitutional institution to discuss today is the Institute of Ataturk Culture, Language and History. Article 134 (U.S.) defines the mission of this institution: "What was done in 2015, 2016, to spread the Ataturcian thought, the Ataturk principle and its teachings, the scientific way of studying Turkish culture, Turkish history and Turkish language? I wonder what was done in 2015, in 2016, in order to spread the Ataturk principle and languages of the Ataturk (Ataturk), the number of symposium, the number of scientific activities, the panel, and the number of events associated with Ataturk. I've looked at the event calendars; there are lots of international book fairs, lots of scientific research -- of course I respect -- but there are very few meetings directly linked to Ataturk, directly connected to the Ataturkian idea. Take a look at their managers, their backgrounds, their deeds, I'm sure they're respectable in their field, but when you look at them, there's not a single study of the Ataturkian mind, my dear friends, about what Ataturk did. The mission of the Ataturk Research Center is to do, do, and spread the results of scientific research on Ataturk and his work. But, you're looking at their executives, their work, they've written dozens of articles, but they're all Ottoman times, they're all older in history. I'm sure they're well-respected scientists, but I can't help but ask what's being done for Ataturk, my dear friends. I'd like to finish by stressing one more thing here. Ataturk was awarded the International Peace Prize, which was not granted during the Justice and Development Party period. Let's just give it to them in the zeros and fives. It was said last year it was a five year, but it wasn't given. Is there anyone in the Republic of Turkey who can't find such an honorable reward? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Why don't you think of Saint Sancar, our Nobel Prize-winning scientist? You'll say: "His reward has been announced later, Mr. Ministers, my dear friends; is it so difficult to give the prize to Ataturk, who donates it to the Memorial and gives it to Ataturk International Peace Prize?" I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0034par0308	Thank you, Mr. Cacharouser. Mr. Lightning, you've entered the system. I promise you for a minute, according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0035par0313	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you know we're discussing the budget of the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey. Let me ask you when the ministers are here. The European-based European Online news site, which broadcasts English today, published its report in English. It's based on the British-based Syrian Human Rights Observatory, Mr. Secretary. A report stating that 163 civilians have been killed in the last year, seven civilians killed on Monday, and three have been injured. I want to ask specifically because in the last ten days, both the United Nations and the Council of Europe's Human Rights Committee and yesterday's International Amnesty have serious claims and reports against Turkey's human rights report. I especially want to ask you about the information that crossed the border in Syria that was alleged to have occurred on Monday. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0036par0316	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0037par0319	Thank you, Mr. President. We started this morning with good wishes, but unfortunately, the news agencies have just informed us that there's been an attack on the existence of the Turkish Armed Forces under the Firat Shield, where two of our soldiers have been killed and wounded. First of all, of course, we wish our soldiers mercy and immediate healing for our wounded, but when such developments occur in the assembly of this matter, especially when it comes to our military presence there in Operation Firat Shield... We've said many times before that the government should inform the House of developments. We'd appreciate it if you and the Minister could give us an update on this during a proper time period. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0038par0323	Thank you, Mr. Special. We pray for God's mercy to two of our soldiers, as it is reported in the news at the last minute, because of the treacherous incident in El Bab. We have a wounded soldier, and we know that we wish him God's blessings. I say that the Lord of these accidents and plagues may preserve our country, our soldiers, our security forces, and all our citizens. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 It's your turn again, Senal Sarıhan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It's the second time you've been on the stand on intense demand. You have four minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0039par0367	I wish this intense request would be more of an AKP line, but unfortunately, the intensity is on this side. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, there was another argument yesterday about human rights between Mr. Attorney General and our group deputy, and I think it's a little bit in the middle. The AKP, I'm correcting it, the government put it on what issues, and what did the United Nations want within the framework of the International Convention on Personal and Political Rights, what did it want to limit, what did it want? I want to tell you a little bit about it here because the Ataturk Cultural Center is what we're talking about right now. As you know, it's an institution that's been implemented under Article 134% of the Constitution. The purpose of this institution is to do scientific research, to do scientific production. I also think that speaking on science and science is the main part of Parliament, or we won't be able to come up with the right policies on Turkey by talking about the weather, or we won't be able to correct the problems. Look, I'm not going to go into the details that we've drawn on any of the materials that we're referring to, by the name of matter... the first is the freedom of rights, the right to freedom and security of the 9th article. What does it involve? It covers detention processes, not wrongful arrests. Article 10 covers the rights of prisoners, the freedom of travel of Article 12 of Article 13 of Article 13 concerning deportation of foreigners. Article 14 is the right to a fair trial, Article 19 is the freedom of expression; Article 17 is the right to privacy, the right to privacy; the freedom of private life; Article 22 is the right to organisation; Article 25 is the right to politics; I read Article 21 (I read in mixed terms) - the freedom of assembly; Article 27 is the protection of minorities; and Article 26 is the equality of the law. Now, you're putting up this hesitation about all these basic rights and freedoms, and you're announcing that hesitation. What's this, guys? I just tried to make it clear that my sentence was interrupted, and I said, if we can't use the right to criticize, the political one -- which was expressed yesterday -- if we can't criticize the President, if he's a political authority -- if he's on fire, then Turkey will burn. Now, I repeat: these rights, including the right to politics that I'm placing in order to do so, should not take it very strangely that the HDP MPs have arrested them, because there is a doubt about this, that our fellow journalists should be arrested or that the torture phenomenon has become too widespread. We're leaving now, and we're saying, does he have a right to live or not? All these basic human rights, if they're not protected, can we talk about living there, friends? Yesterday it was expressed here again, we can't breathe. It was said that the people can't breathe, and we can't breathe. We're in a process where rights are so restricted. I remind you, my friends, the 4th article of the contract commands to limit the situation to the extent required. At the same time, this limitation cannot be made about basic rights. What we do now is that our work together with the State of Emergency is to limit basic rights and freedoms, and the freedom of breathing within that rights framework has been eliminated. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0040par0375	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. In turn, it belongs to Izmir MP Mustafa Ali Balbay. Here you go, Mr. Balbay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0041par0380	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I'm going to give my speech on the Turkish Language Foundation budget. Of course, the Turkish Language Foundation is an institution that should really represent and develop our Turkish language. Our Turkish is among the top 10 languages in the world. However, dear friends, I would like to stress that the basic function of the Turkish Language Foundation has been reduced by changes made in 2011. While Mr. Secretary in charge is here, I insist on highlighting this issue, and I would like to invite the Minister to make a clear statement on this matter. People often stress that one of the Turkish Business Bank's partners is CHP and that it receives a profit share from it. The Republican People's Party does not receive a profit cut from the Business Bank; all its share of the Republican People's Party upon the will must be divided into strengthening the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Institution. I'd like him to explain it and make a clear assessment of it. Friends, of course, I said our Turkish is a very rich language, and it's a very articulate language. If everyone forgives the actions of the Justice and Development Party over the past 14 years, Turkish will not forgive and history will write this period in very clear terms. I'd like to emphasize the basics: First of all, there are the ministers of the Council of Ministers. They don't look at anything else, they just look at instructions from there and only from there. The Ministry of Ministry of Education is incapable of building a home; it can accommodate 10 per cent of university students, and only 1 per cent of primary education students. How are you going to make these students patriots when you can't have a home for them? Again, the Ministry of National Education has changed college entrance exams 11 times in the last 14 years, friends, 11 times. Again, the Ministry launched the FATIH Project in 2010, would have finished its final form in 2014; they extended it twice, and now it's up to 2018. Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror would have conquered Istanbul three times in this time period, and you haven't done a project yet. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Friends, in today's newspapers alone, one day newspaper and Hurriyet have made the headlines, please read about the situation in which education is involved. Hurriyet says: "Unfortunately, the report is bad. One day, we are asked about the decline in education!" And here's the picture: we're the 2nd guys from the end. Take a look at it, because after science, after math, we're the 2nd from the end. When you say "read" in Turkey, don't read what you can read. You've stopped reading books, books, books, you've forgotten, friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'd like to continue by giving you a number in RD research. It's not advertising, it's $10 billion from Toyota's company alone to RD. The money all of Turkey has set aside is $8 billion. We can't afford to deal with AR-GE, friends, because we're dealing with small-income, so to speak.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0042par0391	You can do better than that.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0041par0392	Of course, there's a painting of other ministries. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources is only dealing with where the tenders should be distributed, who needs to be cut in. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources is the ministry of sweet favors in energy. We're looking at the Home Office, all over the country, whether it's the State of Emergency or the crimes. Change the name of the Ministry of Interior to the ministry of crime, and if you can't do it, call it the Ministry of Never.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0043par0395	No pun intended, no pun intended.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0041par0396	You've established a new ministry, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. We've been hearing reports that the minister is really a city boy in Kayseri, but that ministry is also the ministry of concrete and efficiency.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0044par0397	Junior high student...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0041par0398	Shame on the environment we leave for posterity! Friends, again the current situation, minimum wage debate, even the minister says we should give a zero increase. We are competing with Europe at the age of retirement, with wages for pension and salary for Africa. We're European champions in the tax-paying tax, last in the share of the payer's national income. The Ministry of Labour and Social Security has also been the ministry of conflict and social tension.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0044par0401	If you can do better... these aren't good.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0041par0402	If we keep going, guys. In the State Department, it's supposed to be a zero problem, we've given up all of them, we're going to enter Europe, we're almost at odds with each other. You began with peace in the land, peace in the world. But unfortunately -- our friends have just announced the news of the countries around us -- you have now returned to war in the land, war in the world. I'm asking you to change the name of the State Department to the Department of Low Affairs. Now, of course, Cyprus is on the agenda. I wish the Minister would listen.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0045par0404	We're listening, we're listening.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0041par0405	If his father rose from the grave, he would say: "My son Tuğrul, get up a little bit, what is going on in Cyprus?" (Applause from CHP rows) They declared Cyprus every year a year of resolution; since 2004 it has been the year of solution, since 2004. You have declared the year of solutions, 2006, 2007, 2010, 2016, and 2016 the year of solutions...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0046par0406	Balbay has become Bay Bay.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0041par0407	You have deceived Turkey, you have deceived the Cypriots, you have made the island people tired of hope. Of course, the Ministry of Agriculture... there are many examples to give, but in the 1980s, we export lentils to Canada, and now we import lentils from Canada. So what, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Boarding. (Applause from CHP rows) Fresh situation, beets...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0046par0409	What in God's name is this?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0041par0410	Look, please respond to these numbers. You put quotas in the beet maker...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0047par0411	Wow, wow, wow!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0041par0412	...but when you put quotas on the beet maker, you pay zero taxes on sugar imports from America, so at least pay the farmer.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0048par0413	They didn't give me a price this year either, pancara.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0041par0414	Now, of course, the most important thing is the picture of the Justice Department. Congressmans, of course, the Ministry of Justice was supposed to distribute justice, but it was the ministry of distribution of justice. Right now, you have arrested more than 40,000 people under the name of the fight against the people. Yesterday, Mr. Numan Survivor confessed: "We haven't finished this fight yet, we haven't reached all the stages yet." You haven't been able to find out who wrote that statement about the night of the coup, but be a member of the Ministry of National Education. You've found members of the unions he calls, and you've thrown them in prison, my friends. Fight this swamp properly and don't let us worry about it. You can't fight that swamp like a man, and you're trying to spread it to the Republican People's Party; you can't do that, he won't jump at us, my friends. In the 1990s and 2000s alone, the number of articles that I wrote -- I looked in the archive -- is over 40 percent of the writing I wrote; we called the laughing empire, we even called it state protocol, I looked at it, and for the first time we used it in our corner.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0049par0416	What year?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0041par0417	You made partner at the time, and now, while you're struggling, you're all over the place... you can get it everywhere, but you can't get it to us, lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0050par0418	You're right in it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0041par0419	Of course, again, I'd also like to stress another situation -- we're short on time, but -- especially retired citizens are expecting answers from us. As of New Year's Eve, make it very clear what you're going to give the pensioners, because at the age of retirement, we're on the European floor, but on your salary, friends, we're on the African floor. You're trying to name this whole struggle after the war of salvation. If I may compare your struggle to the Battle of Salvation, my lawmakers, it is not a war of national salvation, but a war of liberation from the nation. I'm saying you're not gonna make it, and I'm paying all of you respect.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0051par0422	Bye!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0052par0423	It's Balbay!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0053par0424	Thank you, Mr. Balbay. Last speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bursa MP Nurhat Altaca Kayışoğlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu. Sir, you've come with a lot of cheering. Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0054par0430	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I ask God's mercy on two of our fallen soldiers in El Bab. I pray for immediate healing for the wounded. Of course, we only hear about it and pass it by with a condolences, but it's the power today that's responsible for our martyrs, and we need to make that clear. One day our young seedlings who went to Syria and fell to the ground to overthrow Assad, as the president called them, will be questioned. I have made a commitment to the Turkish Historical Association budget in the budget bill of 2017. The Turkish Historical Society was founded on April 12, 1931, with the support of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, to investigate, support, and promote historical awareness of Turkish history with modern social science, and with its first archaeological dig in 1935. As we look at today, we regret to see that almost all archaeological excavations have stopped and that history has not been investigated. Mr. Balbay just told me, and I would like to remind you that in 1938, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, in his will, donated half of his shares of Turkish Business Bank shares to the Turkish Historical Association, and the Turkish Historical Institution is governed by the legacy of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. We wish it to be managed in a proper manner. He is also the only member of the International Academy of Academys from Turkey. Now, I took a look at the website, and I said, "What is this institution doing?" On November 17th, he organized a symposium, the Symposium of Mercidabık, the Sultan of Yavuz, the Egyptian expedition and the transition of caliph to Ottoman. Later on, we look at another symposium, called Yavuz Sultan Selim Khan and the Jerusalem Symposium at the Age of the Year 500. We look later, on December 29th, he organises a symposium again, the Memorial Symposium of Sultan Süleyman.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0055par0436	Who gave them to you, the West Study Group? The West Study Group gave them to you?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0054par0437	Yes, we see that you prefer to explore a period that is actually consistent with the time you live in today, a period that you admire. It really fits with today's understanding of management. In those days, the people were writing letters to the palace, saying: "We are hungry, no wheat, and we are grazing. There was no production, the people needed the war economy. And if they went out on a journey, they would be able to make ends meet with the spoils they would receive. It's no different than today. But what would we want? We would want this institution to really objectively search our history, to shout out the truth to those who defame Lausanne. (Applause from CHP rows) We would ask the Turkish Historical Foundation to confront them with what kind of gentleman, diplomatic language he had run foreign policy and achieved gains, but unfortunately, the Turkish Historical Society only eats the heritage of Ataturk, and history does not hold Turkey's most revolutionary, most progressive, most enlightened era, its history. Yeah, well, if this institution really does its job, we'll learn how to learn from history. What are we gonna find out? For example, in history, we're going to find out that there's always been a conflict of conduct and law, and that usually only men, kings, dictators, are trying to take the power of the law, and that the law resists it, but unfortunately the Turkish Historical Society does not perform its duty. One day history will write these days, yes, and those who live today will write their names in golden letters or bloody letters. One day, Ahmet Davutoglu's symposium will be held, perhaps to learn from history, and our future young people will learn how to roll from the target of zero problems with the neighbors to the zero neighbouring pit. One day, we'll have a Buli Thunder Symposium, learn how to do a low-profile management under probation, how to do it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0056par0440	It's a shame, it's a shame!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0054par0441	One day perhaps the Bulent Arinc symposium will be held and will learn how Turkey was plotted at the time. One day, Recep Tayyip Erdogan will have a symposium...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0057par0442	Stop right there!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0054par0443	...and learn about the economic, social, education of the country for one's ambitions, what kind of darkness, what kind of abyss the country has been dragged into, in every sense, and in every sense.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0058par0444	We regret it very much, but this conversation does not suit you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0054par0445	Yes, we've been tricked. I'm afraid you won't get away with it because history doesn't erase what happened when you say that. Like in the past, people don't sit down and write history; we live in history every day, it's written on social media, it's written on the Internet, it's written in a little opposition newspapers. As I said, we've been deceived. You can't erase what you've done by saying, and if you want to go through the history of the Republic with gold letters, stop this dark period where we're being dragged into it. There's already been a black painting saved up. Unfortunately, your name will be written in the blood of 301 miners. Unfortunately, your name will be written in the blood of our 11 little daughters, whom we remember, who burned to death in Aladağ, and who each time we remember them, with our martyrs, with bombs, with daily news of martyrdom. But to change that, to get out of these dark days, in your hands, in all our hands, I say no. I'm just saying no. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0059par0448	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the first statement belongs to Mardin MP Orhan Miroğlu. Here you go, Mr. Miroglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] All speakers speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group are limited to five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0060par0454	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I ask God to bless our two soldiers who have lost their lives in El Bab, who have been killed, and to heal our wounded soldiers. I have been promised to discuss the government's budget for Human Rights and Equality. First, in the world and in Turkey, I want to honor the people and people who have lost their lives fighting persecution, violence and terrorism to protect the human rights area and democracy, and of course I want to remember the martyrs of July 15th. On every platform where human rights is discussed, we will remember and remember them with gratitude and gratitude. On this occasion, on one of the longest nights in history, in the history of the world's democracy, fighting against the July 15th coup, I ask for God's mercy and respect for our fallen citizens. If today the world is a world where human dignity is at its most difficult and is still being protected, we owe it to the people, the intellectuals, and the human rights activists who, above all, have dedicated their lives to this struggle. Dear lawmakers, Mr. President, the establishment of the Human Rights and Equality Foundation, which we have not experienced for any other reason, which we have not been able to benefit from its work, is a crucial step in the history of Turkey's human rights struggle and the future of this struggle. Human Rights and Equality Institution is also very important for its ability to have both a specific budget and to work with a staff of experts who are finally expected to be around 150 people as a central institution of discrimination, violations and violations -- one that determines human rights and institutionalisation in this area -- and to continue reforms that have been implemented since the 2000s. Based on the institution's establishment and the fact that it will now have a budget, I wouldn't believe it if I had a dream that one day, years from now, I would take a promise and speak as a member of the Human Rights Agency and as an MP on equality and as a member of the Republic of Turkey, and as a person who has spent 23 years of his life in prison for recognition of Kurdish identity and cultural equality, starting with the 1980 military coup. That sounds like history's irony and a pleasant surprise to me. In those years, people in prisons would stare at the doors of wards and cells, expecting a delegation from Europe to visit and announce their voices to the world. Cases sent from Turkey to the ECHM have been piling up. After our reforms in life, we should all know that in order to investigate the abuse, torture, and right violations of prisons, the hope of the prisoners -- of course, Turkey is in the Grand National Assembly and is in the commissions established in this Parliament. For the right to a fair trial, the address is no longer the ECHR, but the Supreme Court, in a large and broad sense. We've lived for 15 years where different practices between our national law and universal law have been historically arranged in accordance with many binding agreements of the European Union and the United Nations. While we continue to continue reforms in this area as a country, unfortunately, in many countries around the world, especially the countries of the European Union, there are no pleasant and good things happening. The European Union law and its human rights acquish are under serious risk and threat today. Increased racism, closure, Islamophobia and anti-Semitism, tolerance known to terrorist organisations within the Union's borders threatens the European Union in a serious way, and, in fact, we are witnessing a number of reports, written and declared in the European Union from time to time for various countries, especially Turkey, are no longer respected by anyone. Even in decisions by the International Criminal Court to question massacres and genocide crimes, to prevent new ones, and to create an international law and norm that is not based on double standards in this regard, it is now apparent that double standards and some practices can be ignored. Otherwise, dictators such as Assad, who committed 10 times more crimes against his people would already be tried today. Dear lawmakers, there's only one thing we can embrace in a world that's out of control, and that's the protection and democracy of human dignity. We can't protect democracy without protecting human dignity, but we can't protect human dignity without protecting democracy. When it comes to human rights in the idea, the world is much bigger than five. It's where the message is expressed and defined, but in a country that thinks that way, fighting discrimination, inequality, all kinds of violations on a national level, institutionalizing this struggle, building the law of all our political parties. In this framework, I express once again that we will say yes to the Human Rights and Equality Foundation budget, all of you with respect.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0061par0471	Thank you, Mr. Miroglu. İstanbul MP Fatma Benli... Mr. Benli, if you please, I'd like to call you to the stand.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0062par0475	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge today on the budget of the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey and its final account, but first, I wish the martyrs we lost in El Bab. In fact, not only in El Bab, but in Palestine, today in Aleppo, Syria, Iraq, or the attacks, every life we lose in Belgium, England, France, and every life we lose in those explosions hurts us. We don't need to meet them or be in common with them, at some point in our lives we don't need to cross them. Being a member of the human family, when they're hurt, when they lose their lives, it means that we get hurt, too, because together with them, we're actually losing a part of ourselves. The solution, however, is not to make statements for someone, but the solution is to fight for them together, to create mechanisms for them, to fight for them, to the end of our conscience until there is a conviction that we are doing the best we can for them. In fact, what we're talking about today is the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey. We know that the government has made a number of different laws on human rights, which are acting on its motto. He changed the penal code, changed the penal code, brought positive discrimination, corrected the Constitution. He made changes in the Labour Law, which should be the basis of equality in different areas. He secured international contracts, but since the fact that rights are only in the law or in contracts is not enough to enforce them, he has organized different organizations to ensure that the actual practices are finalised. The formation of prison monitoring boards, the establishment of the law enforcement commission, the creation of patient rights boards, for example, on various issues. Since that was not enough, an autonomous and independent national human rights institution was created. It was the main idea that the Turkish Human Rights Institution was founded in 2012. We must defend mankind's honor to the fullest. If this is carried out, the state must abide by the principle of justice while securing its citizens' right to life while providing security as its most basic duty, it must fulfill the rule of rule of law. When the balance of security and justice is off, it is possible to apply to such independent and autonomous institutions and to end the joys. In fact, that's why Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Foundation, which was held during the AK PARTY, is so important because it protects the honor of people we don't know, people we don't know. Which means he's securing us against any violations of our rights tomorrow. But the fact that the Human Rights Institution of Turkey has a mandate to develop general human rights throughout Turkey, then to be given the mandate of the national prevention mechanism, thus giving it the task of overseeing every place that is being held against its will, has greatly increased the institution's power. Finally, the full fulfillment of the principle of equality in the Constitution, the presence of a mechanism in which individuals can make allegations of violations of discrimination all over their lives, our necessity for this has led to the establishment of Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution, instead of dismantling the Human Rights Institution of Turkey. At the moment, individuals who feel that they have been subjected to discrimination on the subject of gender, on the subject of disability, on the subject of religion, on any subject from working life to renting a house or on any association membership will be able to appeal to the Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey. However, the need for this institution to work against discrimination claims, such as mobbing, which require a lot of different, multi-level work on different issues such as sexual abuse, has revealed the need to increase the institution's capacity, but especially to raise experts who will work in this field. Therefore, people's application to become members of the institution has been removed and studies are being conducted to ensure the professional qualifications of experts who will first work at the institution. Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution, which will take place when this is completed, is a separate institution, not only for individuals living in Turkey, but for anyone who may later be discriminated against. On this occasion, I salute each and every one of you. Thank you. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE)
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0063par0483	Thank you, Mr. Benli. Burdur MP Bajram Özçelik is next in line. Here you go, Mr. Originality.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0064par0487	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our foundation, which we believe will root deep into our history and connect to our future, is a very important function in the enormity of our civilization, to ensure that a property in our culture and civilization is used forever in a way that will not be passed on to anyone else's property, leaving all its benefits to the benefit of the people. In our vision of civilization, we have strengthened the sense of cooperation and solidarity that has been constantly renovating our nation in all directions by means of the foundations. Today, our foundations stand in front of us as a unique example of what we call empathy. The sense of intimacy created by the feeling of sharing has become a part of society and has served to form a society for a period of time. Can you imagine, if we hadn't left our foundation services and foundations in the land where we live and rule in history, would we now proudly remember our sacrifice? Our foundation, as a national defense agency, allows us to walk and talk proudly on that land. In today's sense, the foundations are called the third sector, and after the public and private sector, they provide different and lasting services in every area of society and in every moment of life. In particular during our governments, arrangements have been made for the Foundations' General Directorate to immediately return to its original post, seeing its purpose to help the poor. In addition to protecting the foundation structures, studies are being carried out to meet the charity requirements of the foundations. In Anatolia, in Thrace, in the land where Ottomans and Seljucians live, we continue to restore the foundation works to the original. We have reached every work. We can't say it, we know our crying works, but by the will of God, by the will of our government, we will include these works among those that smile with the zeal of our General Directorate of Foundations. So, where do we get the budget for these artifacts? We're trying to do it with the resources of the Foundation General Directorate. Throughout the years, the revenues from the foundation streams have been produced to function in dozens of abandoned foundation streams. This is the ability of the AK PARTY governments to restore and perform the institutions within the inertial system to its core. From 2003 until today, there have been 4,750 projects and restorations of almost destroyed projects that have not been dared to draw their projects. Imagine, in 13 years, $3 billion has been invested at $300 million, and 81,270 people have been employed. The foundation stores are not locked up in the new era, the foundation museums, the foundation universities, student scholarships, the care and food benefits for the poor are being put into action one step at a time, leading to the continuation of our foundation civilization. To keep the spirit and understanding of the foundation alive, the spiritual depth of being a man of the foundation, to be able to pass on to our people and to our generation. It is also possible to be profitable on the post-mortem journey into the eternal realm with the use of the left-over foundations in the welfare and service of the well - being human being. We need to get our community to be surrounded and surrounded so much that a human foundation is born in a home, the foundation grows in a cradle, reads from books, teaches or serves at a foundation, dies in a foundation place, dies in a trusty coffin, and is buried in a foundation cemetery with its friends. Our prayer from our Lord is that in the service of a foundation, he breathes our last breath as a man of trust. On this occasion, I give thanks to our esteemed President, our Prime Minister, our Deputy Prime Minister, our esteemed CEOs and all of our employees for their selfless service to the foundations on behalf of the Turkish nation. I salute your precious delegation.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0065par0498	Thank you, Mr. Originality. Congressmans, we've just received a statement from the Turkish Armed Forces regarding the incident in El Bab. The wounded have been treated at the hospital. Once again, I would like to say that we strongly condemn the event, that we curse it, and that we ask for God's mercy to our fallen soldier, and that we pray for healing for the wounded. Mr. Akçay, you're in the system, and according to 60, I'll give you my word for a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0066par0506	Thank you, Mr. President. On the day of the battle of the Battle of the Firat Shield, another martyr reported, unfortunately, our heart was broken. Two of our soldiers were killed and one of our soldiers were injured in the attack on El Bab.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0065par0508	One of our soldiers is a martyr, Mr. Akchay. We've received a final statement from the Turkish Armed Forces: one of our soldiers is a martyr, six of our soldiers are wounded.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0066par0509	Yes, one of our soldiers is a martyr and one of our soldiers is wounded because our information was in the form of.2. May God not give us any martyrs, of course, that's our wish. May God have mercy on our martyrs and my condolences on our nation. And I wish our wounded soldier a speedy recovery. On November 24th, again, three of our soldiers were killed in the same area and 10 of our soldiers were wounded. We haven't had a clear statement from the government yet about the perpetrators of this attack, yet we've been attacked again. Mr. President, thank you for reminding me of the General Staff statement. However, of course, the government must inform the Grand National Assembly on these developments in Syria and on the operation of the Fırat Shield. The support of our beloved nation is behind our Armed Forces. May God help each and every one of them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll put you through, there's a...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0067par0516	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0066par0517	Again, we learned with regret that Mr. Ayşenur Bahçkapılı, the deputy chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, was subjected to ugly treatment by German police and officials on the grounds of passport transactions. My condolences to Mr. Gardendoor. It is not acceptable for a Turkish MP to be held at the airport for hours, to be detained, to be threatened at a police station, and it is a complete scandal by the German government, which violates international diplomatic immunity rules. I hereby condemn those who welcome terrorists at every turn but act so disrespectfully and aggressively on behalf of the National Party of Actions, the Deputy President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm guessing this behavior will have some kind of response to Turkey or something. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0068par0521	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Turan, I give you my word for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0069par0525	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we wish God's mercy to our soldier who was a martyr in the Battle of the Firat Shield, our nation's head. We also have wounded, and we wish our veterans and wounded a speedy recovery. I'd like to express that our nation's support, its prayer, is with our soldiers. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0068par0527	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0070par0530	Thank you, Mr. President. I also ask God's mercy to the security forces who lost their lives in Syria Al-Bab. My condolences to their families, and to heal the wounded immediately. But the sad thing is that the statements of the people who run the country, or of the purpose of this operation, or of the same person, the President or the Prime Minister's statements on different days, indicate that the purpose of this operation is not very clear, but let's say that we know very well that the security forces who have lost their lives here are out of the process of determining the purpose. Again, it is impossible to accept the treatment that Mr. Speaker Ayþe Nur Erçkaplı has faced in Germany. There is never an acceptable aspect to this work from our point of view, just like the practices and arrests of lawmakers in our country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0071par0534	Thank you. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 In order to speak, it belongs to İbrahim Aydemir (Abraham Aydemir) MP Erzurum. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Aydemir.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0072par0574	Mr. President, thank you. My speech is on foundations, too. In the beginning, I wish our martyrs mercy, and may God have mercy on us. I'd like to make a greeting with the Foundations. At first, I salute all of our MPs, who have dedicated their hearts to Hakk, and to the people, to Mr. President. A special name, a contractor that we use a lot of his words, describes the foundations, saying: "Vacities are the combination and complementary heart addresses. (For example, Al-Hakk is the same.) Another defines the foundations as a complete knowledge of the heart. We look at it differently, and we describe the foundations as the product of the secret that describes our blessed geography, the abandonment that sustains the national will, and the high discipline. My dear friends, we add to this, and say that our foundation mentality, our address to humanity in Mazlana, is the Jonahian prayer for mankind, the Allvarian effect for mankind. Anyway, it's about dedication, giving, forgiving. We built our civilization on this, thank God, and the hand that gives us our virtue is better than the hand that buys us. We have shaped the foundation that means such a great deal. Unprecedented conversation, free goodness, loyalty to national and spiritual values, loyalty to the national will, and, of course, national and spiritual sensibility in order to sustain this culture. This is the best, our leader, our President, says: our civilization is a foundation civilization that we can address as a institutionalized form of good in some way. Today, in many lands around the world, this land is the source of the widely accepted understanding of the foundation. It is one of the great heritages left to us by our great civilization, which has dedicated itself to humanity and even to all creation, to work for humanity and the good of the beast, to take on life and all that is available to us from the travellers to the migratory birds and all that is human. He's making another historical discovery, Mr. President: "We went to the Middle East, we went with our railways, we went with our water channels, we went with our markets, most importantly we went with our culture of living together; that's our difference," he says. Yes, my friends, that's the difference between this great nation, which brings justice to three continents, the love of man, the culture of the foundation, and the culture of the foundation. Thankfully, thousands of foundations, aiding and solidarity spirit, which have been brought to life and supported by the EC understanding today, carry the spirit of mezra mezra, village, village and district. Our foundation work has been a beacon of hope for the oppressed in the world and the helpless in the world. From Bosnia to Turkmenistan, from Yemen to Somalia, from the Balkans to Asia, from Africa, we reach the oppressed. With investments and decisive sanctions recorded in the field of foundations recorded by law enforcement, the spirit of our profession, which has made us ruler of the world for hundreds of years, has been revived, a resurrection movement has been launched in the name of cooperation and solidarity; that is our difference, and that is our difference on earth as a nation. My dear friends, at the beginning, I spoke of a stance: I said, "A stance of the golden hand. " When I said I had to stay there, I had to talk about Paiselle, I had to stop at Hasankale, because Payler is the pinnacle of the foundations, Hasankale. The year 1048 -- our General Directorate of Quads knows very well -- is a date that refers to the foundations. Ten centuries ago, a name in Hasankale, a special name, Halil Ibani, is a name that signed the first foundation contract, and a brother-in-law is a slut. Alhamdulillah, there's a brother-in-law's signature here, like every good attempt. I told the Plan Budget Commission, our friends there know, so I'm taking notes again. Since the first trust was signed at Payler, in 1048, then I say we build a foundation monument in this rare county. Let's organize a day of events here, scientific conferences. It is a necessity, and a necessity to avenge the spirit of Halil Ibani. On this occasion, I know our budget will be good, our past 14 budgets were, and from now on it will be, blessing, and I salute you all with my heart.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0073par0584	Thank you, Mr. Aydemir. Now it belongs to Zonguldak MP Faruk Çaturoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Chaturoglu.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0074par0588	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the 2017 budget of Prime Ministerial Disaster and Emergency Management. I salute you all with love and respect. However, before I speak, I ask God's mercy on our martyrs in El Bab. Again, I'd like to say that we don't approve and strongly condemn the treatment done by the Germans by our Deputy Speaker of Parliament, Ayşe Nur. And recently, Mr. President said he was alone in the fight against interest. We say, Mr. President, you are not alone; the AK PARTY Group is behind you, the nation is behind you, the nation is behind you, and all the oppressed people of the world are behind you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, I'd like to continue with a souvenir. In the August 17, 1999 earthquake, I was in Chinarcık district of Yalova, where I was struck by an earthquake. Unfortunately, four days later, the government was able to get there. All transportation, including the telephone, has been cut off, but I want to make it very clear that today the AFAD agency of the Republic of Turkey intervened in the earthquake in Nepal in 22 hours. I think it's a very important example for us to see the power that Turkey has come from. Not only Nepal, but in many countries around the world, such as Afghanistan, Albania, Myanmar, Vanuatu, Malaysia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, the Central African Republic and Ukraine, we have extended our hands to assist our people in the coordination of AFAD, which is victims of sociosexual crises and natural disasters, regardless of religion, language, race. We're not the kind of country that needs help, we're the kind of country that needs help. Therefore, I thank all those who have done their best, especially Mr. President and Prime Minister. Turkey, which is the hope for people and humanity, wherever it is in the world, has become the largest humanitarian aid country in the world since America in 2015, according to the 2016 report. I'd like to give you an example of that, too. You know, when Luxembourg, the smallest country in Europe at the time, received $1 million in help, I think it's the best expression of where Turkey came from when we became a country that could do $3.2 billion in humanitarian aid in just one year. With AFAD, Turkey has become a country that helps every country in the world. Most importantly, dear friends, we're helping countries we're going to, just help; we're not going to exploit them in the name of help, like the Westerners did, which is one of the most important differences. Speaking of which, in 2015, a huge landslide took place in Köyaka district of Şek district of Zonguldak Province, Turkey. On 23/10/2016, right ownership studies were announced. Soon these studies will be completed, and those affected by the disaster will still be raised by the great hand of our government. Between 2000-2015, our Zonguldak province received 628 disaster housing and 4 infrastructure projects, which were completed. When you say disaster, when you say rescue, you can't not talk about the legendary task force of Turkey's Taşkömömu Industries. This rescue team, which has a crew of 500, took important positions in both earthquakes and mining accidents, and at various times -- August 17th, November 12th, Düzce and 2011 -- and rescued many people from the wreckage. I wish to bless our budget, and I thank our Prime Minister, our ministers, and all those who have gone through all the hard work, especially our President, who has worked in our budget, and I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0075par0602	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0076par0603	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0075par0604	Here you go, Mr. Akçay. I promise you for a minute, according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0077par0609	Thank you, Mr. President. Our dear congressman, who was just speaking on the stand, said that he had been caught in the Yalova earthquake and that the state had arrived four days later. That's not true. So in those 1999 terms, in the shortest possible amount of time, within hours, the government did the necessary intervention. Given the magnitude, size, impact field of the earthquake at that time, it would be unfair, not true. But we do know that on November 17th, a mining accident occurred, 16 people were buried in the ground, and, unfortunately, 12 of our workers had been buried days later, and there were still miners buried in the ground. When you say that, when you try to make political judgments, deductions, of course, you have to look consistently at integrity. In recent years -- I think it's been five or six years -- we remember that the bodies of the workers in a cave-in in Elbistan, Kahramanmarash, again, have not been removed, over the years have passed. What kind of state power is this, the opportunity, the success that's been going on for years, their funerals are unreachable. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0078par0614	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0079par0615	Mr. President, a moment of your time.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0078par0616	Here you go, Mr. Pine. I promise you for a minute, according to 60.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0079par0619	Thank you. Mr. Speaker is a dear friend of ours in the Plan and Budget Commission. Now, of course, mining accidents... he's also a Zonguldak MP and a friend of ours who's been mayor in the past... but it's clear and clear that most of the mining murders in Turkey are happening in Zonguldak. In the past few days, 16 of our brothers and sisters who were working in Shirvan were buried in a cave-in, and they were killed. For the past ten years, business killings during the AKP administration have really been at a maximum level. The bodies of nine of our fellow workers are still in the ground and have yet to be reached. Thus, these issues are important to our Turkey. Business murders are one of Turkey's major shames. We are number 1 in Europe and 3 in the world. We need to develop measures and measures to prevent job killings and business accidents as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0080par0623	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0081par0624	Congressmans, let's not go outside budget discipline. Now, just because a congressman used a statement, please don't let everyone add their own comments about that statement. Let's get this over with. Here you are, Mr. Chaturoglu.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0080par0626	Mr. President, thank you. It wasn't my intention to create a period of time, just to make a comparison of what happened to us that day, to tell us what capacity our country has reached today. I didn't say that to make a polemic. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0082par0629	Thank you very much, Mr. Chaturoglu. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 In turn, it belongs to Haci Osman Akgül. Here you go, Mr. Akgül.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0083par0669	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of the President of Disaster and Emergency Management. I salute the High Council. First of all, I pray for the grace of God to our soldier, who is a martyr in El Bab. I pray for the healing of our veterans. Our country is in a position that often encounters natural disasters because of its geographical position. A proof of direct or indirect physical and spiritual losses caused by natural disasters, the management of disaster and how meticulously co-ordination must be dealt with after disaster. One of the things that our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan was so sensitive about during his prime minister's term was disaster management. For this reason, the AFAD, who now sign important works, hope for the underdogs, has officially begun its work with Law 5902, which was drafted by our Grand Assembly in 2009. The AFAD, which continues with its mission to create a disaster-resistant society, puts our country's past experience ahead of its understanding of risk management, which focused its resources on pre-doctrination, which prioritizes the reduction of preparations and risks, rather than the sense of crisis management, which spends most of its resources at the moment of disaster and later. The AFAD, which continues its work in the earthquake zone of our country, is now an institution that operates in Europe with 784 observation stations and a two-way observation station. In addition, six and a half million of our citizens have learned the right way to behave in disasters with Project Afete Turkey, which has begun to increase all layers of society to the level of disaster preparation. The disaster management and decision support system, the disaster temporary city management system, the electronic aid distribution system, the local information system, the event command system, which, starting at zero minutes, has been developed and ready for service. One of the recent painful events is the Van earthquake. As soon as the earthquake took place, the AFAD teams signed on for important work, providing professional support to allow the wounds to soon heal. More than 17,000 permanent dwellings on the thirty-nineth day of the earthquake, hosted by 200,000 victims after the earthquake, were handed over to their owners on the first anniversary of the disaster. We've become a state that can intervene in the moment of disaster, crisis, today, in the country and in the world, under the ruins of the 1999 Düzce earthquake. It gives us first confidence that we have an institution that can act rapidly in situations of earthquakes, floods, avalanches, landslides, fires, or humanitarian crisis, which can be carried out in any part of our country or anywhere in the world. Because of this human drama that began in 2011, the migrations from Syria to Turkey and to the world are conducted in our country in co-ordinating AFAD. Turkey, on the basis of humanity, has imposed open door policy on our Syrian brothers and sisters and provides temporary protection. In total, there are 2 million 758,409 Syrian refugees in our country. The housing centers established and run by AFAD are not only for housing, but as dynamic centers for all human physical, social, psychological needs. The hand of the oppressed has spent over 12 billion dollars to heal and resuscitate the wounds of Syrian refugees, our country, the language of the mutes. The AFAD has also taken on important tasks in times of crisis, other than disaster. As a result of the internal turmoil in Libya and Egypt, the evacuation of our citizens and victims in these countries was carried out by special operations. After the civil war broke out in Libya, 25,000 people were brought into our country and an evacuation operation followed by envy by the world. Again, 3,295 people were evacuated from the area due to internal disturbances in Egypt. Turkey is no longer the hand in need of help; it is the desired position, not the hand in place; it is the one who is expected to help. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Turkey's joint power is AFAD, which operates on five continents for earthquakes, floods, famines, droughts, fires, domestic disturbances and so on. I wish our 2017 budget to the best of our country and our nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0084par0681	Thank you, Mr. Akgül. The order belongs to Gaziantep MP Ahmet Uzer. Mr. User, please.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0085par0685	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the budget for the President of Afet and Emergency Management of the Central Management Budget Act of 2017. I salute your high council. Before I begin my speech, I would like to express my condolences to our soldier who was a martyr in Operation Firat Shield. Dear lawmakers, AFAD is a very important institution in case of disaster and emergency to ensure that public, civil society and private sector resources are properly managed, more lives are saved, and fewer losses are caused. In 2009, the Prime Minister's Office of Disaster and Emergency Management was established to coordinate the disasters single-handedly. The AFAD has now left behind disaster management policies that intervene when disaster strikes. Now, the Afet Risk Management System, which is trying to prevent disasters from happening, is implementing a new model called the Integrated Disaster Management System, which consists of damage reduction, preparation, intervention and healing phases. From the day the AFAD was founded, it strives to establish systems in every area it is responsible for, to manage risks. Turkey has passed on to the Disaster Response Plan, which uses advanced technologies such as systematic, sustainable IT technologies, satellite and aviation in an integrated system. With this plan, our ministries in the AFAD co-ordination, all our institutions and institutions in central and local communities, our governorships, our local governments and NGOs have created a system that can act as Turkey's common power from the first minute of disaster. The National Earthquake Strategy and Action Plan, approved by the Disaster and Emergency High Council in August 2011, is a road map for reducing our country's earthquake risks in 2012. After the disasters, logistic warehouse installations where tent and intubation materials were stored to ensure effective and rapid intervention have been completed, and 24 have been completed. In our country, which is at high risk of disaster, with Project Afyte Turkey, which has been launched to increase the level of disaster preparation for all layers of society, over 6.5 million of our citizens have learned and have been informed. As part of the campaign, Afete Ready Family, Afete Ready School, Afete Ready Business, Afete Ready Young People Projects are under way. According to the 2016 Global Humanitarian Aid Report, Turkey has become the most international aider since the United States of America last year. Turkey has become one of the most generous countries in the world because it has divided 0.37 per cent of its illegal national product into humanitarian aid. Turkey has become a country that helps every country in the world from the position of the aided country with EC PARTI governments. Turkey's $3.2 billion in humanitarian aid constitutes 11 per cent of the world's aid last year. In addition, I'd like to address the issue of Syrian refugees in my constituency, Gaziantep, who have been hosted by the AFAD co-ordinated. As you know, moving from Syria, which began in April 2011, to our country and to the world, has been coordinated in Turkey. These people who came to our country under Turkey's open door policy have started a new life. Dear lawmakers serve five temporary housing centres in Gaziantep province, 2 in Jusahiye, 2, 2 in Nizip, 1 in Karkamiş. Since I have an election district, I know very well for the last five years, and we have invited many visitors from Turkey and the world at these temporary shelters. But there we saw... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's a difference between Turkey's point of view and people's view of the world. While we were entertaining these people without any interest, we saw that people from outside in particular looked at the matter differently and we examined it. This shows that our point of view is very important. I wish our budget was a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0086par0698	Thank you, Mr. User. Hatay MP Haci Bayram Türkoglu, I would like to call you to the stand. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0087par0702	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget for the President of Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency of the Central Management Budget Bill of 2017. I hereby salute your delegation and our beloved nation. First of all, I ask God's mercy on our fallen soldier at El Bab. I wish our wounded immediate healing, my condolences on the loss of our nation. Our organization, which has done important work on behalf of our country today and has made us proud of its activities, has been founded to support the development of the newly formed Turkish republics in Central Asia, along with the end of the Cold War process. After 2002, the world's developments have expanded in terms of our government's active foreign policy and economic growth, and have become active throughout the world, especially in our nearby geography, the Balkans and the Middle East, until Africa, South Asia, the Pacific and Latin America. In 2002, the number of foreign offices of the 12 TİKA (TİKA) increased from 54 countries in 2016 to 56, while the number of countries in operation increased to more than 150. In addition, there were around 2,200 projects and activities between 1992 and 2002, while the number of projects and activities carried out between 2003 and 15 were over 17,000. Precious lawmakers, looking at the sectoral distribution of projects and activities implemented by TİKA, we see that social infrastructure and services are first. This is a direct result and reflection of our government's understanding of human-oriented diplomacy. SCHOOLs, libraries, labs, built hospitals, clinics that are opened around the world by the hands of the TİKA are a source of healing for thousands of people, while ties to our country have been strengthened in every way and our nation has received a blessing. IN recent years, the activities of the TİKA (TİKA) have not been limited to education and health, but have been diversified to cover many areas. In different parts of the world, primarily Africa, hundreds of thousands of people have been opened to get clean water. Projects have been carried out in agriculture, animalism, energy and many economic sectors, contributing to the employment, production of developing countries and increasing the level of income. From this point of view, the TİKA aims to increase the prosperity of countries in different geographys in the world, its institutional and human capacity. In fact, the TİKA implements projects in every area that is needed from birth to death. TİKA also holds our shared historical and cultural heritage through restoration studies. Artefacts, such as mosques, madrases, bridges, and inns, built hundreds of years ago, were brought back to our society and to future generations. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are making concrete contributions to the solution of local problems with their activities in all the geography they go to. For example, an agricultural project conducted in Somalia prevents people from increasing employment, preventing people from falling into the hands of the Co-Shebab terrorist group, while an educational project in Afghanistan contributes to the growth of young generations, while informing them, prevents Al Qaeda from becoming a militant. Thus, the TİKA does not provide a simple development aid, but also achieves many results in its activities at the same time. We must remember that Turkey's achievements in development co-operation through TİKA are a message to the world. Dear lawmakers, TİKA has contributed highly to our country's international appearance and its long-term, economic, social and cultural relations with other countries in the past quarter century. Thus, at the point of opening up to different geography of the world, TİKA will continue to receive the support of our government, our government and our nation. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you all the best in the year 2017 budget to our country, our TİKA (TİKA) and all our institutions.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0088par0711	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. In order to speak, our Elazig MP belongs to the Dragon Open. Here you go, Mr. Open Door.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0089par0715	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group under the budget of 2017 for the chairmanship of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency. First, I pray to God for the mercy of our martyr who walked to Hakkk in El Bab, and for the immediate healing of our wounded soldiers. TİKA continues to be the hope of the oppressed for a quarter of a century, feeding on the fundamental values of our nation's charitable and generous feelings, feeding on the fundamental values of our ancient civilization. If the TİKA, operating in more than 150 countries with 56 country offices, waves the flag of our country and acts on the hearts of our nation's sincerity and love, there is no doubt that the President Recep Tayyip Erdogan will reach out to all parts of the world and help wherever there is humility and distress, we will go there as Turkey, and we will do little or much help. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our country has shared wealth, experience and savings in every area in the past 15 years with brother and friend countries. For this reason, Turkey has been the world's most generous country in humanitarian aid compared to the non-national product, and has been the world's two most generous countries in the amount of aid, leaving many developed countries behind in 2015, despite being the 18th place among the world's economies. According to the 2015 data of the International OECD Development Aid Committee, the country's official development aid increased by 91% compared to last year to $4 billion. Our official development assistance, which was at 85 million dollars in 2002, increased by 2015 by over 45 times. With the help of our private sector and NGOs, Turkey's total development aid was 5.1 billion dollars in 2015. We must know that Turkey is no longer the hand that takes, but the hand that gives. Many countries have carefully monitored the activities of our TİKA (TİKA) as an operational institution in the field of development cooperation. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been diversified to cover many areas of the project as the activity geography of the TİKA (TİKA) expands. In particular, projects in agriculture, animalism, energy and different economic sectors are being carried out to contribute to developing countries' employment, production and income level. For example, there was an agricultural village in Gambia that had been developed in the fishing industry, which had been used by nearly 30,000 people, and Niger would have been a model for productive agriculture in other villages. Last week, I had the opportunity to visit, and the Sudan-TİKA established the Sudanese vocational Training Centre, which teaches local students and teachers with 10 workshops and 1 practice hotel. The oil production plant established by TİKA in October, where conditions of life have been difficult day after day because of the blockade imposed by Israel, also contributes to the country's economic well-being while the olive country hopes for hundreds of thousands of farmers in Palestine. In my province, Elazığ, 27 teachers from the University of Fırat and TİKA, who came from the Republic of Ghana to study pedagogical formation in their country, returned to their country, our country, our Elazığ, and our hospitality, began to lecture their students in style. On the other hand, TİKA trains students, teachers, doctors, police, judges and prosecutors and diplomats in Turkey to develop human resources capacity. Mr. President, with these extremely valuable activities, our country also shows the world that it is part of the crisis in the world, not the problem, but the solution, and I salute our great Assembly and the nation of Necip, while thanking our president and his colleagues for their hard work.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0090par0724	Thank you, Mr. Open Door. In turn, it belongs to Bursa MP Hakan Çağoglu. Here you go, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0091par0728	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0092par0729	Keep your voice down, keep your voice down, all right?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0090par0730	Don't provoke, Mr. Sertel, and neither do you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0091par0731	...the budget of the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, I pray for God's mercy on our fallen soldier in El Bab, and for our wounded, and for immediate healing. Members of parliament, the presidency of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad was established in 2010 during the EC PARTY Governments. The institution's main roles are to focus on the problems of our citizens living abroad and to create a powerful diaspora, on the other hand, to develop social, cultural and economic relations with the relatives, who are a trustee of our history. Today, this institution has been one of our country's hundred-white institutions, where every family member and relative who came to Turkey has knocked on the door and responded to their demands and demands. Members of parliament, Turkey is never about Turkey. Our physical boundaries may be 786 thousand square kilometers, but our heart geography is far beyond those limits.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0093par0735	Bravo!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0091par0736	Today, many regions, especially the Balkans, are like our limbs torn from our bodies.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0094par0737	What's going on in the drum, Gümülcine?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0095par0738	Why don't you go, why don't you go to Gümülcine?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0091par0739	Congressmans, there is a pain in medicine called phantom pain. Do you know what this is?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0096par0741	You've got the Phantom pain.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0095par0742	You have a stomach ache, Hakan, you have a stomach ache.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0091par0743	The Phantom's pain is that after a limb was amputated, the severed limb is still there and it feels like it's still hurting.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0095par0745	Hakan, don't speak, Hakan! You have a stomachache.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0097par0746	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0091par0747	I mean, the person's arm is cut off, there's no arm in his body anymore, but he feels the pain of his arm that he doesn't have.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0095par0749	Hakan, when you're out of tune, one day he'll weigh you too. You're not letting anyone talk here, Hakan.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0097par0750	Mr. Sergeant won't come to your provocations, Mr. Lawmakers, don't waste your time.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0095par0751	Hakan, don't talk! Sergeant, what the hell are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0097par0752	You're not coming to the provocations, thank you, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0098par0753	A person who's been suffering from Phantom pain, even though it's been many years, this person will continue to feel this pain.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0095par0755	Sergeant, when you're out of tune, one day he'll weigh you too. You're not letting anyone talk, you're always talking.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0098par0756	Now, our cry about the Balkans and our brothers living in our heart geography is a manifestation of this pain.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0099par0758	Congressmans, it's unbecoming, please... Mr. Sergeant won't come to the provocations, you can see that.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0098par0759	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0760	You're always talking, Hakan.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0099par0761	Congratulations, Mr. Sergeant. You address the General Assembly, please.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0763	Sergeant, when was the last time you went to Gümülçine?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0101par0764	Mr. President, I know what's wrong with them. They're trying to get in the way of what I'm about to say.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0766	Don't talk, Hakan, don't talk, you can't understand.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0102par0767	What's going on in Gümülçine? What's going on in TİKA?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0768	Hakan, you reap what you sow, what you sow.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0103par0769	But, no matter what you do, the truth has a habit of coming out, and even if it bothers you, we'll keep saying it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0771	What kind of a thing is that, Hakan?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0104par0772	When did you go to Şemülçine, to Gümülçine?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0773	He reaps what he sows, what he sows.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0105par0774	Friends, here, two days ago, on the first day of the budget talks, there was an argument about the Aegean Islands.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0106par0776	Congressmans, please don't spoil it, please.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0777	What are you doing, Hakan, what are you doing, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0106par0778	Please don't spoil it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0779	Is that even possible? You're always talking about it, Hakan. How well the preacher spoke from there, how well we listened; and you do not know how to listen.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0107par0780	Today, CHP's Tanju Özcan has made accusations against our power and party about the islands, which have nothing to do with the truth.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0108par0782	What's in Gümülçine? What did you do there, what did you do?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0783	Hakan, there is no such thing. You don't know how to listen, you don't know how to listen.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0107par0784	First of all, I'd like to point out that if you're sitting in a glass house, you're not throwing rocks through someone else's window.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0786	You don't know how to listen, Hakan.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0107par0787	My advice to Mr. Ozcan is that after a debate on this minor, Celal Bayar would be to take a look at the attitude of Ismet Inönul.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0789	Hakan, there is no such thing. Hakan, you don't know how to listen. That's what you get for saying that. Talk a little bit about TIKA.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0109par0790	What happened in Bulgaria, Bulgaria?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0110par0791	Congressmans, what do you do when you're treated the same? Please...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0793	It's easy to put words in your seat, you reap what you sow, what you sow.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0109par0794	What happened in the drum?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0795	He will weigh you one day. You reap what you sow, Hakan. First you'll learn to listen, then we'll listen.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0111par0796	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what is this about islands? Look, I'm happy here, not to make a change, but to put Ismet Inönu on the target board, but to expose the facts because if you want to shape today, you have to make sure that the events in history are evaluated in detail.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0798	You reap what you sow, no one listens to you. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0112par0799	What happened in the drum? WHAT did you do in TICA? What'd you do in Gümülçine? What did you do in the drum? Have you ever been to the grave, Gümülcine?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0111par0800	Members of parliament, the Aegean Islands were not left with Lausanne in 1923, but the Aegean Islands were left with Greece in 1947 by the Paris Agreement and the CHP government.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0802	Sergeant, you go ahead.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0112par0803	What did you do there?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0100par0804	What are you doing? You learn to listen first. You're gonna talk here for a year, and then we're gonna make you talk? You can't talk, friend, you can't talk!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0112par0805	What did TIKA do?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0113par0806	Members of parliament, at that time the government was called to discuss the islands by the British ambassador.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0114par0807	Congressmans... please, don't spoil it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0112par0808	What did he do, TİKA, tell me what he did.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0113par0809	Unfortunately, the government of the period didn't even respond to those calls, Congressman. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] See, in the memory of Feridun Cemal Erkin, who was then Secretary General of the Foreign Ministry, I say to him: "Will there be any attempt by the Allies to attend the meeting as Secretary General?"
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0112par0812	What happened in the drum?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0115par0813	What are you doing? What are you doing? See what you've done? Eey Hakan!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0113par0814	The government has gathered and made a decision. He said he wouldn't join, and unfortunately the Aegean islands were lost at that time. He says, "Dear MPs, it's out of our hands."
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0115par0816	You reap what you sow, what you sow. You should be ashamed to talk from there.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0113par0817	And finally, he says... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...there is no doubt that this order will be obeyed. But not to grieve over the sudden fate of the islands...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0116par0820	You tell the Gumülçine.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0117par0821	You reap what you sow, Hakan, you reap what you sow, you reap what you sow.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0116par0822	It happened in the drum, what happened?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0118par0823	Is it possible to escape the crime of screaming, calling, attacking the Aegean islands, contributing?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0119par0825	These are the facts of history.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0120par0826	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant. Mr. Sergeant, despite all the provocations, you've had a very kind speech, congratulations.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0121par0829	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0120par0830	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0121par0831	Mr. President, this is the House, the Veteran Assembly. There's a code of conduct in this House.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0122par0832	He's always talking.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0121par0833	The way a person prevents a person from speaking is not an objection. So...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0123par0835	Congressmans, look, I promised Mr. Turan. Mr. Turan is speaking. Go ahead, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0121par0837	Mr. President, I'm saying that this House has its place, and there's a code of speech. It's not acceptable for a group to yell at the speaker on the stand, to call him, to call him, to do so, but not to do so in a democratic way. There's a code of speech I'd like to express.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0123par0838	Yes, Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0124par0839	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0123par0840	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0124par0841	Mr. President, democracy is a regime that we all need to internalize.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0125par0842	So is history.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0124par0843	Parliament is a place to talk, and you reap what you've planted here. There comes a day when you'll be weighed by the cantar, which you've broken. Such proverbs, such as the Republican People's Party, are the right and democratic response to every speaker who's been on the stand for a year -- between two budgets -- listening to many friends with kindness. Let him spend the next five minutes he can't talk to our friends for a year, counting on him to take their time. That's one. And for that, I thank my band, and I applaud them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Secondly, I listened very carefully to your honor's speech.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0126par0846	Of course, we've seen you listen very carefully.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0124par0847	During his speech, he said that in 1947 we were in pursuit of the Aegean islands and that CHP had done it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0127par0848	Mr. President, they can't take any promises, they won't listen to the speech.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0124par0849	That's why there's teasing our group, and we'll use our right to answer.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0128par0850	Mr. Special, I'm going to ask for the minutes because even I couldn't listen to your hum, so you've never listened.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0124par0851	Okay. Bring in the transcripts, look. Let me take advantage of that statement.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0128par0852	And the last thing I'm saying is, if it's a proverb, then everyone does what's right for them, and that's how I do it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0124par0853	Mr. Hakan has been talking to me for a whole year.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0129par0854	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0128par0855	Mr. Sergeant, let's close this polemic if you want.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0129par0856	Mr. President, we'll shut down the polemics, of course. I want to make it clear that I understand the attitude of our Republican People's Party MP friends today. I mentioned it there, and history, unfortunately, has a habit of revealing itself. Now, I...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0130par0858	You don't know your history, your history.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0131par0859	Wait a minute, wait a minute... what are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0132par0860	Just a moment, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0131par0861	What are you talking about? Is that a thing?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0132par0862	Have a little patience, if you have to answer, I promised Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0131par0863	No, sir, he's insulting me!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0133par0864	Listen, listen! That's not the way to do it! You can't stand to listen!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0131par0865	We teach history, history!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0134par0866	Come in, Mr. Sergeant, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0135par0867	Mr. President, Mr. Special has just stood up and targeted my person directly with his speech, referring to the behavior I did not do. There's an open taunt on this occasion. I want word from you because of this bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0131par0869	No, I never picked on you, I never picked on you!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0134par0870	Mr. Sargeglu, Mr. Special has a request for a statement due to bullying as well, so if you'd like to do two now, let's take the minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0135par0871	Let's do this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0134par0872	Then, Mr. Special, I promise you first because of the Aegean Islands. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0136par0874	Mr. Emre Bridgel will drive, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0134par0875	Here you go, Mr. Bridge. I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0137par0879	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, of course, historical facts can be distorted in such a way that they can be altered in such a different way, but let's just say...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0138par0881	We haven't heard, Mr. Bridge, we haven't.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0137par0882	Of course, our Deputy Group President just told us that we've been going through a long time, all the party groups, all the opposition groups. The word is true: whatever you sow, you reap. Whatever you do, you will be treated the same way. Thus, it is useful for all lawmakers to understand this matter as well. Now, there's talk of islands. Only you can explain the matter of the islands with Lausanne.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0139par0884	No, we're not talking about Lausanne.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0137par0885	If you want to examine the matter of the islands, you will go to the Battle of Tripoli.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0140par0886	It wasn't explained with Lausanne, it didn't go to Lausanne.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0137par0887	If you're going to study the matter of the islands, you'll see how they were left here in Italy. But, I just want to say...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0141par0888	He wasn't in Lausanne anyway.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0140par0889	He came to 1947, he has no business with Lausanne.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0137par0890	It has nothing to do with Lausanne. The bottom line of this is this: this is a work that you brought to the agenda today to cover up the fact that Greece is flagging the island that remains within Turkey's borders. But I'm curious, Congressman, that you were born in Gümülcine, born in West Thrace.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0142par0891	Right, yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0137par0892	So, you were born as a representative of a minority whose legal status has been defined by the Lausanne Agreement, and today you are a citizen and MP of the Republic of Turkey. The Turkish Youth Association (Turkish) word is not available in Gümülcine today. This society cannot use the word Turkish Teachers' Union in Switzerland. To use it, there are rights to which Ismet Inöneh is known. I wish you'd brought them up today as a member of the Republic of Turkey's MP who could protect the rights of those minorities instead of distorting the issue of those islands so that we could applaud you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I say thank you, pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0143par0896	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Here you go, Mr. Sergeant. I'll give you two minutes for teasing. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0144par0900	Let Mr. Hakan promise me that I will never speak again.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0145par0901	Now, Hakan, about Gümülcine...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0146par0903	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0144par0904	Let him promise not to say anything.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0145par0905	It's about the islands, the islands...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0147par0906	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0148par0907	All my acquisps are West Thrace and the Balkans, my dear brothers.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0147par0908	It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, please... I won't allow it anymore.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0149par0910	Let him see it. Let's see how that works.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0150par0911	It's about the islands, the islands...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0151par0912	Mr. President, are you going to...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0152par0913	Then I'll reboot the time. Here you go, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0153par0915	Tell me what you have to say about the islands.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0154par0916	Let's see how you talk.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0155par0917	Members of parliament, Gümülcine Turkey's Youth Union, the Turkish Union of Turkey, has sued minority institutions and the European Court of Human Rights ruled in favour of these institutions.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0153par0919	What do you have to say about the drum?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0154par0920	I have something to say, promise me something first. Promise me one thing, promise me you won't say anything first, promise me first.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0153par0921	It's about the islands, it's about Gümülcine.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0156par0922	You've asked, and listen to the answer with endurance. Democracy is a regime of long - suffering, why don't you put up with it? Don't you like the answer?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0154par0923	You've been talking to us for a year.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0153par0924	What will you say of the islands, of the Remulsion?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0157par0925	My advice to Mr. Bridgellu is to tell the president of the Republican People's Party that instead of always shouldering the European Union decisions against Turkey here, he would not have said anything to the European Union about the minority decisions, not until now.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0154par0927	You reap what you sow, what you sow, what you sow until now.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0153par0928	What about Lausanne?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0157par0929	Second: The matter of the islands is not about Lausanne. The issue of islands is a subject that came up after World War II after 1945.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0154par0930	There's no such thing, we don't have to listen to you here. You've been talking about this for a whole year.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0153par0931	It's not like that, it's not like that! What you say is not true, what you say is not true, Hakan.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0154par0932	You've been talking about this place for a year. What you're saying is not true, you're not telling the truth, you're never, ever telling the truth, you're never, ever telling the truth.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0158par0933	After the end of World War II, when the Paris Conference was held in 1947, Britain asked Turkish Foreign Affairs to send a delegation to these talks -- which Feridun explains in the Rememal Erkin memorial.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0154par0935	You never, ever tell the truth. You don't know anything but how to talk to us. You don't know anything. You're a shameless man, you're just sitting there talking! No one has to listen to you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0159par0936	What you're saying is not true.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0154par0937	We never listen to you, you're talking from there.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0160par0938	Congressmans, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and you are following the problems of the nation on behalf of the nation.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0161par0939	When he refused to accept it, this time the ambassador of England asked him to send at least an observer, which was not accepted.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0162par0941	No, that's not true.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0163par0942	It's never, never true.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0164par0943	Yelling, calling...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0165par0944	See, that's how islands come to be brought up. What does Feridun Cemal Erkin say?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0166par0946	No, that's not true!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0164par0947	... There's no way you can hit a line cap.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0165par0948	In relation to the conference, I'm the Secretary General...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0167par0949	You're not telling the truth, you're telling the truth!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0165par0950	I asked the government to attend the meeting or at least make an attempt on the islands with the allies...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0168par0951	Hakan, promise, promise. Hakan, promise me you won't interfere again.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0165par0952	The government discussed the issue and since we did not join the war...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0169par0953	Hakan, promise me you won't say anything! Promise me you'll never say anything again!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0165par0954	..he instructed me not to make any demands.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0169par0956	Never, never! That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0165par0957	And by the way, I don't want to discuss the accuracy of that view... he says.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0170par0958	Hakan, promise me you won't say anything.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0165par0959	There's no doubt that this order would be obeyed, but...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0171par0960	You're always talking about it. That's why we never listen to you! You're not going to say anything, you're not going to say anything.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0172par0961	No one will listen to you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0165par0962	It's not possible not to grieve over the sudden fate of the island, he says.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0173par0963	Promise me you won't say anything.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0165par0964	Guys, this is it. What I'm saying is, today, you're sitting in a glass house while you're saying some things that have nothing to do with the truth.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0173par0965	Promise me you won't say anything, Hakan!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0165par0966	Don't throw stones at someone else's house.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit01spe0174par0968	I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0174par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 The commission and the government are in place. In turn, Antalya MP Sena Nur Çelik, of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0175par0043	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the President of Turkish and Relative Communitys abroad in 2017. I salute the General Assembly. As I begin my words, I ask God's mercy on our soldier who was killed in El Bab....and to heal the wounded immediately. Our country's field of social, cultural and historical interaction, our human geography, is far beyond our political borders. We have a much larger heart geography than 780,000 square miles of land. As our late President Ozal said, in the geography from the Adriatic to the Great Wall of China, we have been and will continue to exist for centuries with our descendants and relatives, who we are connected with the unity of history, culture and language. This reality, unfortunately, has been ignored for many years, and our relations with Samarkant have been neglected with us, with Buhara, with Sarajevo, with Aleppo, with Kerkok, with Prizren, with Kazan, with our relatives, with their history dating back to thousands of years. That understanding has changed today. The same history, the same fate, the same joy, the same grief, was established in 2010 to develop relations with millions of relatives and relatives, to address the problems of our citizens living abroad, to conduct effective diplomacy, powerful diaspora and active lobbying activities. Members of parliament, the presidency conducts various studies such as discrimination, active citizenship and participation, voting abroad, Blue Card, so that six million of our citizens, who face various problems from foreign enmity to Islamophobia, education to family union, can live peacefully in countries where they live. Again, studies are being carried out, such as Foreign Leaders and Youth Bridges Programmes abroad, internships in Turkey, Citizens abroad Research Support Scholarships, in order to ensure that they are successful in their own culture. Education, culture and seminars by the presidency are organised and supported by various NGOs in order to strengthen our relations with Turkey, revitalize our common culture, protect our historical heritage, improve the education levels of young relatives and relatives. As of 2011, more than 70 hundred million projects from more than 70 countries have been supported and supported by the applicants for nearly 100 million euros. Mr. President, there are more than 16,000 students from 160 countries in our country under the Turkey Scholarships Programme, where Turkey is a training centre for international students and that these students are the bridge between their countries and Turkey. International Academy of Students Programmes is being organised to inform these students about Turkish culture and civilization and Turkey's global vision and grants for achievement and support. These students, among the soft elements of our country's power, will be voluntary cultural envoys between Turkey and their countries when they successfully return home with their education. Dear lawmakers, we see international students who are raised in the schools of the PKK's terrorist organization are on the front lines of anti-Turkey propaganda today. The work of the presidency for international students is also important and should be continued by increasing it, especially because it will contribute to disrupting that effect in geography, where the CHP terrorist organisation is active. Fellow lawmakers, along with the 21st century of the world, have entered a series of major crises. We face a new world order filled with injustices, wars, alien hatred, racism, Islamophobia, which cannot produce common solutions to mankind's problems. Right here in Turkey, under the leadership of Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the world has chosen to say "Earth is greater than 5" and has taken steps one by one to practice that expression. The fact that the presidency of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys alone was established during the AK PARTI administrations and even the services produced by this institution are a summary of the solutions that we as the EC PARTY offer to the problems of the world. The key words of those solutions are conscience, compassion, and others. In that sense, the presidency is the name of a movement of conscience and mercy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On this occasion, I thank all those who have worked in the establishment of the presidency and in their activities, and wish our budget well.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0176par0055	Thank you, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0177par0056	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0176par0057	Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0177par0058	Mr. President, as for my speech, while I'm out of the room, Mr. Hakan Sargeglu's words are in the form of taunting. I'm asking for your word from the teaser.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0176par0059	Mr. Özcan, you know, I've had a break, and I can't promise anything because of the bullying. I promise you your position for a minute according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0177par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in my speech, I said that the Greek flag has been raised on the islands that are legally ours, and that the actual occupation must be ended immediately. Now, the speaker who spoke after me does not say: "No, these 18 islands are not ours. " Legally, it's ours. Well, doesn't it bother the AKP Group, the fact that we have a Greek flag on our land? This place belongs to us, like Edirne, like Hakkari, like Van, in a land piece of land that belongs to our country, all of our land waters. I tried to say it, but I don't understand what's wrong with my saying, "That's where we're going to draw the Turkish flag." I give you the compliments of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0176par0065	Thank you. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 It is now the turn of Ankara MP Ertan Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0178par0105	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the 2017 budget of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute. I hereby salute your high council. Before I begin my speech, I ask God's mercy on our fallen soldier in El Bab. And for the healing of our wounded soldiers. Dear friends, the High Institution, the Ataturkian thought, the principle of the republic, Turkish culture, Turkish history, and Turkish language were founded on Article 134 · Global Global Voices in order to study, promote, publish, and publish in a scientific way. It consists of the High Institution, Ataturk Research Centre, the Turkish Language Foundation, the Turkish Historical Institution and the Ataturk Cultural Centre. The organisation was reorganised during the EC PARTI administration, which was dated 11/10/2011 and was the foundation of the entity, 664, to perform language and history studies with scientific methods of duty, authority and responsibilities. In 2016, institutions within the High Institution carried out a total of 90 scientific events, 46 international and 44 nationals, and will carry out three more scientific events by the end of the year. Construction, designed as a closed 48,725 square metres in order to strengthen the physical structure of the High Institution and its institutions and provide service within a single compound, is expected to begin at the end of 2017. A total of 370 people were granted scholarships in 2016, including 130 licenses, 120 Masters, 114 Ph.D.s, and 6 Ph.D. studies, which will continue in 2017. In 2016, a total of 48,503 artifacts were distributed abroad to universities, libraries and public institutions, and 10,505 of them were distributed free of charge by the Supreme Institution; they will continue their free distribution in 2017. Since 2000, the Ataturk International Peace Prize, which was not granted due to the legal gap, began to be given again starting in 2015, and, as every year, the organisation for the 10 November Ataturk Assembly State Ceremony will continue in 2017 and in the coming years. Honourable MPs have brought some negatives along with the positive aspects of the transition from empire to nation state in Turkey. In particular, the rejection of the values of the nation, the founder of the new state, has left significant gaps in the culture world of society. To fill this gap, the methods and practices used by the only party during the early republic have been transformed into sort of social engineering projects. In terms of the method used, it's also a deep impact on the nation's memory that can be viewed as some sort of cultural despotism.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0179par0110	No way!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0178par0111	For example, with radical language revolutions, society woke up with amnesia the next morning, and the Sun Language Theory of the 1930s was developed by radical nationalist reflexes in the world at that time, rather than by the facts of society, and was created by projects that would make Turkey a joke in the international world and that Yakup Gadri was considered to be some sort of kasatatata.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0179par0112	It's pure slander, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0178par0113	Again, hundreds of books have been banned from printing because they were harmful scalpels during this period of pressure.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0179par0114	You don't speak science.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0178par0115	This process, of course, is not limited to this. For example, official history has been exposed to non-scientific history readings of society, which have been ignored for thousands of years.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0179par0116	The floating state of history...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0178par0117	Alaturka music has been banned and Western music has been forced to be heard. Theatre content has been transformed into ideological propaganda, regime propaganda. There is a striking example: Hacivat-Karabir is transformed into a progressive, modern figure, and Karagöz has been transformed into an abusive figure because of his regression, because of his bigotry.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0179par0118	I'd like to invite you back to read the history of the Republic, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0178par0119	This is the only party cultural policy that has survived the transition to multiparty life, especially in times of impact, which has been made an ideological propaganda tool. In short, the government has determined for society what is good and what is bad by a narrow elite environment, and the content of the concept of social benefits is authoritarian and imposed. With the AK PARTY coming to power, creating a state-owned cultural policy began to lose its practice, while our national local culture fed on our ancient civilization, while on the other hand, it also began to interact with universal culture, which is natural and fundamental. As a result, we don't care about the demands and constraints of the state, we care about a culture policy shaped by social demands. To this day, we have always tried to honor this principle, and I end my words, saying that we will act with that understanding, and I salute all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0179par0122	I'm glad you put an end to it, Orator.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0178par0123	And we can discuss it with you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0180par0124	Thank you. According to Kırşehir MP Salih Çetinkaya. Here you are, Mr. Cetinkaya.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0181par0128	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group over the budgetary budgetary budget for 2017. I salute your committee. At the very beginning of my words, I give thanks to my beloved nation, who crushed the coup and struck the coup in the coup of July 15th. I ask God's mercy for all the sons of our country who have been killed in this coup attempt. I wish our veterans a long life. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy for our soldiers who died today in El Bab. Dear lawmakers, the land where our martyrs lie is clear, the flag is set; therefore, they are clean mama's lambs, the children of Asia Minor. But I would like to point out that those who martyr them will never escape the punishment of God in this world and in the Hereafter. Standing firm in the suppression of the coup attempt, our chief commander-in-chief Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım, I present my thanks to our Parliamentary President and to all political parties who have kept the House open with his life despite the bombings. I would like to remind you again not to let this nation live on the 15th of July, but to do so, all traitors must be fought until the end. Mr. President, members of parliament, the Ataturk Research Centre was founded in 1983 by Law 2876. The Ataturk Research Centre, which is based on the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History, aims to introduce the Ataturcian thought, the Ataturk principle and its inspirations to the world through scientific research and international activities. The Ataturk Research Centre is the greatest work of the Great Leader Ataturk. He is doing scientific research to understand the impact of events since the founding of the Republic of Turkey and is trying to contribute to the formation of national policies in this sense. There are also five international symposiums planned by the Ataturk Research Centre in 2017. One of them, I hope, will be held in Kırşehir, which is my constituency from 15 November 2017 in the association of President of the Ataturk Research Centre and President of Ahi Evran University -- and I already think it will have very good results. Dear lawmakers, the Centre's budget totalled in 2017 according to economic classification, with the cost of personnel, social security institution premiums, goods and services purchases, current transfers, 5 million 113,000 euros; I wish it to be good. Dear MPs, a CHP MP's delegation has visited Kırşehiri in the last few days. We think we're honored to have them in our city and show them our hospitality, and we're always welcome. But there's some misinformation in there, and I haven't had a chance to correct them. Of course, we're open to criticism, but I want to fix these. It would be unfair if we didn't tell the truth. Now he says that in 1954, when the Democratic Party didn't get the vote it wanted in Kırşehir, it punished the city, when it was a district.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0182par0137	The county did it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0181par0138	Yes, it's true, it's a historical event, my friends, and those who have done so over time have said in their memories that they regret it, and three years later, they've corrected it again.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0182par0139	In 1957 they made a province.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0181par0140	But historically, it's being studied even in law school right now. Here we are in charge of the High Council. Perhaps as geographical boundaries, it will not be possible to fix this, but if the House appreciates the extradition, we are always prepared to do this work... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and Kırşehir has really moved away from his rightful place in history since then. I want to right that wrong in that sense.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0183par0144	Do you want us to do a big city or what?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0184par0145	What do you suggest we do?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0181par0146	I mean, it's a...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0184par0147	Oh, you're going to bring a return law proposal.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0185par0148	We'll back you up.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0181par0149	I mean, it's a tribute to our great coven.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0186par0150	Let's make it a big city, big city.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0187par0151	Let's all work together.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0188par0152	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0189par0153	I thank you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0188par0155	Thank you, Mr. Cetinkaya.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0190par0156	Mr. President, I have a request for my position according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0188par0157	Mr. Demirel asked for words according to 60. Here, I promise you for a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0190par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I would like to state today that the application to Mr. President of Parliament, Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılılıya at the German Airport, which we did not accept in any way, is actually an intervention in the will of the people, so I would like to rephrase that it should not be accepted. I send him my regards, my love. But that's the way it's supposed to be, no matter where it is. If we don't accept what has been done to us in another country, we shouldn't accept what has been done to anyone else in our own country. Again, today, during the visit of our co-Chair, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ....of the Swedish Left Party....to GBT practices at the airport..
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0191par0165	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0190par0166	Thank you, Mayor. And we've seen that you've been exposed to the same practices, and we have to express that we don't accept it in the same way, that we shouldn't accept it. Again, we must not accept that the door of Figen Yüksekdağ, the only co-Chair of Peoples' Democratic Party, who is parliament's third group in our own country, should be taken into custody and taken hostage in an instant, because this should be considered a coup against the will of the people and should be dealt with in such a manner. I'd like to stress once again that we must fulfill our duties in areas where the MPs are elected by the will of the people under the legislatures, and that we must not accept those who practice such unlawful, unjust practices. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0192par0170	Thank you. Mr. Special, I promise you one minute according to the Civil Code 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0193par0174	Mr. President, earlier this morning, we had already expressed our sensitivity to Mrs. Aysenur. Our Kırşehir MP, Mr. Cetinkaya, mentioned the visit our MPs had made in the last part of his speech. Of course, there, our MPs stressed that Kırşehir is an unclaimed, indifferent and migratory city. But we witnessed Salih Çetinkaya's statement about the re-institution of the province and the re-institution in 1957, in which he couldn't get the vote he wanted in the history of democracy in 1954 by the Democratic Party: I think he's talking about an extradition. If so, we say that we can support such a step by the Republican People's Party, especially the two MPs we appointed at Kırşehir that day. All of our lawmakers who went to Kırşehir are there trying to provide positive contributions to eliminate the lack of the Republican People's Party as a member of parliament. For your information.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0192par0176	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0194par0177	Promise me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0192par0178	Mr. Cetinkaya, I give you my word according to the Civil Code of 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0194par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, when CHP MPs visited Kırşehir that day -- of course, I couldn't get into all of them -- they made some improper assessments of Kırşehir. For example, they say that there are 48 factories in the rural organised industry, which have been shut down 16, but there are 53 factories now, so this data is wrong, and I want to say it's officially wrong. Besides, there's this whole town thing. Now, I want to make this very clear. It's closed down 20 towns, but right now we've had 10 out of 20 of these closing cities to cover the sewers and infrastructure with special management facilities. In fact, the results of this were good. I mean, I don't think that's a criticism issue. So, if we want an effective and active will in Turkey's future, I think we should do it in other areas as soon as possible. Also, population loss, this demographic... we're seeing an increase in the central population... 5,000, our population has increased by 5,000. But, as a result, there is no slum problem in Kırşehir, there is no serious infrastructure problem. I'd like to point that out. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0195par0186	Thank you. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 Yes, members of parliament, it's now the turn of Sakarya MP Mustafa Isen. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Isen.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0196par0226	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group over the Ataturk Cultural Center budget. I hereby salute the High Council. When it comes to country politics, any kind of politics, first, strategic facts come to mind. Therefore, while determining our country's general policies, national security and defence strategy, the global system, regional dynamics, the new concept of security and Turkey's position in the international order must be well assessed. We're going through a history of radical changes in the global system and the power parameters. A global political system and weight centers that do not have a single center of attraction is forming an economic and cultural new order. Our region, on the one hand, is a valuable geography that contains ancient ancient civilizations, with rich resources and human resources. On the other hand, we are going through a period in this region where multi-structure identity policies are stepping up. We're in an environment where there are radical changes in traditional sense of security. The classical sense of security that used to aim for the preservation of land, borders, critical facilities and infrastructure has become a new mindset that puts a man in focus. Now, when we say security, we think of more than wars, terrorism, radicalism, disasters, poverty, epidemics, illegal migration, cyber attacks, climate change and energy security. These aren't just problems that can be solved with guns. Can't we make solutions to these problems by taking into account the region's historical background and cultural infrastructure? In the face of all these dynamics, we have to define the international and regional position of Turkey and develop a vision that fits that description. The future of our country, which is home to a long-standing tradition of state and heritage of civilization, must also be sought out on great horizons. In this regard, I think the priority is a healthy assessment of Turkey's power parameters. In addition to other power parameters, I believe Turkey should include its very powerful cultural savings in this system. Using this accumulation we're talking about, it's possible to make our country an example of a central country with cultural depth in the vast geography we're in. In light of the new strategic climate and perceived threats varying in our region, using new perspectives beyond traditional security parameters is not a choice for Turkey, it is absolutely a necessity. Basically, Turkey also has the funds to play this role. Because it has a long-standing tradition of state, strategic mentality and culture dating back to centuries. We will, of course, use it not in the framework of cultural imperialism, but in a sense, as the conscience of society. In this sense, success also comes from cognitive evaluations of the soft power and the ▪Hard power. Here, institutions like the Ataturk Research Center are representatives of this soft force of our country. In strategic planning for our country's national security and interests, it is created through such institutions to prepare soft forces that will win hearts and minds in the size of economic, social, cultural and values. The main goal for Turkey is not only in the military and political field but also in the sense of virtuous power that values justice and human values. It is not a coincidence that the name of the long - term publishing body, which has reached the 70th edition of the Ataturk Cultural Centre, where we stand for its budget today, is also called Erdem. With these thoughts, I wish the budget of 2016 to be a success.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0197par0233	The budget for 2017...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0198par0234	Thank you, Mr. Isen. Now it's time for Samuel's MP Sami Çakır. Here you go, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0199par0238	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the Turkish Language Institution budget of the European Budget Bill of 2017. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our nation. Language is one of the strongest bonds for the unity and integrity of the nation. The language connects the past to today and the present to tomorrow. Language also keeps people alive and together in its own aliveness and sociality. The Turkish Language Foundation was founded under the direction of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, on July 12, 1932, under the name of the Turkish Language Study Society to study Turkish language and to work for the development of Turkish language. The first significant amendment to the structure of the Turkish Language Foundation was made at the extraordinary convention in 1951, and the regulation clause that enabled the National Education Minister to become Chairman of the Institution has been altered, thus severing the institution's ties to the state. The second significant structural change took place in 1982, 1983, and was under the roof of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute in the Constitution of 1982, thus restoring and strengthening ties to the state. The Turkish Language Foundation is tasked with doing scientific research on the written and verbal sources of Turkish language, providing the introduction of Turkish as the language of science, art, literature and learning, development, development, and the use of accurate, beautiful, effective and aesthetics in all areas. Since the beginning, the Turkish Language Foundation has conducted its work on two main axes: doing research on Turkish language, doing research on Turkish language; finding solutions by dealing with the current issues of Turkish language. The language does not have a patterned, unchanging, stagnant structure; rather, it depends on the features of its own structure and function, historical, social and cultural formations. For him, it is important that this institution develops its relations with the private sector, with universities and with NGOs, as well as its support for Turkish language, history and culture. We also have to determine how far we have to improve language education and education and on what scale, and on what scale, if we want to strengthen our culture, our literature, our common understanding of life. We know that there have been many activities and events since the establishment of the Turkish Language Foundation, and that the main lines of activities held and to-do at convention meetings have been discussed and decided by members. Each year, during the Festival of Languages, various awards are given to works chosen from among print science and art. The contribution to the art and science of Turkish education in the presentation of awards is considered, as well as the commitment to Turkish Language Institution principles and the value of art in literature. Besides, various meetings, memorial days, seminars and forums are organised. The language is defined by the agreement that people make with words or signs to report what they hear, as a means of communication between people, as a system of sound, thought, sound, shape, and meaning that each society is shaped according to its own values, which allows common subjects to be passed on to others, based on voices, developed, sophisticated. Today it is said that there are around 7,000 languages in the world. In its naturality, 90 percent of these languages are thought to be destroyed in a hundred years. Here, I think it's important to emphasize specifically how important this community is to the framework that we've just drawn the budget of the institution we're talking about. Language is a system for those who communicate with thought. Therefore raise your voice, not by the word of the Lord, for it is the rain that grows the leaves, not by the thunder. Here is the significance of the expression. As he assessed the Turkish Language Foundation, I find the way the budget was given to him important, its location, its assessments on the lack of budget or surplus, and with the belief that the budget for 2017 will be used in good services, I respectfully welcome the General Assembly and our nation.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0200par0246	Thank you, Mr. Cakir. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the final speaker is Manisa MP Selçuk Özdağ. Here you are, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0201par0250	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Turkish Historical Foundation budget. I salute your high council. In 1954, the Democratic Party made a mistake and made a borough, a district; in 1957, it came back from its mistake, restored its reputation, and also captured the truth. Again, there is no need for a reputation again, Kırşehir is a province, and it will continue to grow, because I felt the need to make that statement because my grandmother is from Kırşehir. Dear lawmakers, history is a cultural treasure that determines the way society develops over time, which allows people to communicate and integrate with their own society, which keeps their consciousness alive. Mr. President, Cevdet Pasha of the 19th century describes history as one of the elements of making as few mistakes as possible in the future. As a well-trained Ottoman officer, Gazi Mustafa Kemal, the founder of the Republic of Turkey, puts great emphasis on the history and language issues that are the basis of culture. Gazi Mustafa Kemal, who is aware that it is possible for a strong nation to have a spiritual heritage, is a statesman who realizes that the future cannot be built without knowing the distant and near past. This awareness has prompted Ataturk to be closely engaged in history and Turkish history. He believed that our ancestors, who built great states, had great and extensive civilizations, that it was a debt for us to study them and report them to the world and to the Turkish world. In the 1930s, when politics was settled by this belief and had the opportunity to focus on cultural matters, there were some breakthroughs in the field of culture. On 29 March 1931, when a decision was made to be closed in the 7th Assembly of Turkish January, this time was redesigned as the Turkish Historical Study Society on 12 April 1931, and the name of the institution was converted to the Turkish Historical Research Agency in 1935, and later to the Turkish Historical Society. Mustafa Kemal, who has been under the protection of the Turkish Historical Society, has been very interested in the work of the institution until the end of his life, and has identified his own work plan many times, and has attended several meetings in person. His importance to the institution and history is understood by his will on September 5, 1938, when he donated half of his shares in the Business Bank to the Turkish Historical Society. Valuable lawmakers have studied and studied Turkish and Turkish historical sources from the Turkish Historical Society's foundation to date, published monographs, works and magazines on scientific values, and have also translated sources and studies in other languages related to Turkish and Turkish history into Turkish, held meetings to discuss new discoveries and scientific issues and held congresses. The first was held on July 2-11, 1932, in 2014, the 17th edition of the Turkish History Conventions, which was held at intervals. The declarations presented at these conventions were made into books and presented in 48 volumes, from which to the 16th convention. The Belleten magazine, which began to publish in 1937, continues its broadcast life, still once every four months. Documents, published in 1964, and the first edition in 1988, continue to be published once a year. Excavations that began in 1935 continue abroad and abroad. Today, he provides financial support for about 20 - 25 digs each year. On the other hand, the Chinese Emperor's diaries are being brought in and translated into Turkish. In addition, under protocol with the History Department of Russian Academy of Sciences, a catalogue of Turkish historical documents in Russian archives has been catalogued and studies have been launched for faxing documents. The Turkish Historical Society also supports various projects to shed light on many issues in Turkish history for its purposes. Meanwhile, Turkish architecture and art inventory are under way with the Turkish history atlas. The library founded by the Turkish Historical Society for scientific studies is one of our country's richest residency libraries and serves by computer. The library contains about 260,000 volumes of books, which have been provided with the latest publications through exchange and purchase, with 243 abroad and 75 institutions abroad. The computer also contains data from the information sources of Turkey's largest libraries. A total of 519,000 books can be scanned by library users. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with no truth left in the world, I wish you all the best of the Turkish Historical Society budget, with the will of God to work with the law and science. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0202par0261	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0203par0262	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0202par0263	Thus, the words for the Justice and Development Party Group are completed. Mr. Nihat Green didn't make it to the speech this morning, so I guess he went to the hospital because of some sort of illness, and we're just saying, "Get well soon." I promise you one minute, according to 60. Here you go, Mr. Green.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0204par0269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, our Kırşehir MP gave us information about something, but with the right numbers there, Mr. President, 54 factories are correct, but before the AKP came to power, there were 40 factories, working as individuals. But right now, 54 of these factories are getting smaller and smaller. Each factory turns into an average of three businesses. The citizens there told us that. Our head of organized industry: the roads are out of order, there's no working environment at any point, the investor is not investing in it, he's not getting any kind of incentive, in this position, when he's talking to us about those problems, so we didn't say anything by twisting anything here. We didn't mention eight factories. That's right, there are 54 factories, but each of 54 factories has turned into three businesses, and it's getting smaller and smaller. That's what we said. Also, the organized industry... thank you very much for showing this sensitivity to my Congressman.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0202par0272	Thank you, Mr. Green. Mr. Special will probably complete it by 60. Mr. Special, please, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0205par0276	Our MPs warned me, I listened to Mr Selçuk Özdağ. It's a misunderstanding, not only to answer what he said in that part, but only to those who are listening to this part of it, that there are shares of Ataturk, the management of these shares in the Republican People's Party; the shares are being transferred to the Turkish Institute of History, 50 percent of the shares -- as he said. The shares of the Business Bank, which is the heritage of the Republican People's Party, are entitled to representation only on the board of directors responsible for the administration of the bank, but not a penny of the Republican People's Party has any income from here. It is divided equally between the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Society. I wanted to express it. It's a misunderstanding, not a taunt. Just don't make this part sound like we have the rest of it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0202par0277	It's on the record, understood. Thank you. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 Thus came the People's Democratic Party Group. The first statement on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group is from Mus MP Burcu Çelik Özkan. Here you are, Mr. Steel Özkan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0206par0320	Mr. President, valuable MPs, it will be very difficult to discuss human rights in Turkey in ten minutes, of course, but we will make some evaluations on behalf of our group. The foundation of the Human Rights and Equality Association, as you know, has been through intense debates. The basic criteria of this institution must be compared to the principles of Paris, even in harmony with it. However, when we look at Turkey today, we can see that we have never even been near the Principles of Paris, dear friends. From neutrality to the election of its members, many criteria have previously brought the character of the Human Rights Foundation, which is missing from its mistakes. Dear lawmakers, aside from the fact that the Human Rights and Equality Foundation's text is so bad, another disappointing situation is the disregard of the warnings of NGOs during the organisation's process. In the establishment of this institution, the opinion of many institutions that have been fighting for human rights in civil rights for years has been ignored, particularly those who are members of the Human Rights Joint Platform. However, in the organisation, this ignored state of law has not been overlooked by the decree and the first decree has closed the IHOP member, the Human Rights Research Association and many other human rights associations, sealed their doors. Although it was established months ago and on June 2, 2016, their application for membership ended, the institution is still not operational. This tells us that the government is so impatient with human rights that it can't even tolerate the institution that it has built by its own hand, that the institution is uncomfortable with me. Congressmans, since transparency in the budget is not the way we're expected, we can't comment much on the budget of the Turkish Cypriot, but I'd like to share a few data with you. It is evident that the conflicting environment that began in Turkey in 2015 was the most intense period of human rights violations in the country's history. It is unfortunate that the government has been so insensitive to human rights violations, so irresponsible, especially with the suspension of the solution process, the institution established by its own hand. In this period of severe violations, when we look at the corporate budget, we see that the total income is $2,353,952. However, any study, documents, and dons that show the purpose of resolving rights violations in the country have not appeared in the report, unfortunately, because there is no study for human rights in Turkey. Dear friends, the second issue is the employee income of the institution, and I'd like to make a brief point here. According to the Court report, only 240 thousand personnel were targeted, while the institution spent $811,138. It is important for the institution's reputation to share this expense with the public in all its details. From the time they arrived, AKP governments have exhibited examples of unprecedented violations of rights, even in the last 90 years, following Turkey's establishment at the point of right violations. From 2015 to today, these violations have peaked in Kurdish provinces, boroughs. According to the IHD report, more than 2,000 people have died from July 24, 2015. Burned-down homes, citizens forced to emigrate aside, Turkey currently does not have a city on the map. Dear friends, there are many cases that we have witnessed during this time, but I would like to remind you that it is a disgrace to humanity that we will not be able to pass without mention and that it is already a black mark on the human rights report card of Turkey, which is not good enough for us to have Taybet Anam killed and her funeral left in the middle of the street. A continuous and systematic increase in rights violations in Turkey has gone through the roof as the State of Emergency has been declared. In these days, even words, such as human rights, peace, freedom, solutions, have been considered a crime. We would also like to say two words to those who are trying to compare Turkey's State of Emergency with France. Yes, in Turkey, the so-called OHAL and partial freedoms have been legally restricted, so-called thought, idea, religion freedom is still available, but it must be noted by the public that every decision made in France and the Council of Ministers, which the president is president of, if he wants to be able to rule out any law that can restrict these freedoms, and you know that the Constitutional Court has no right to save on these provisions, but that every decision made in France is guaranteed to pass under the supervision of the Constitutional Court. In addition, the fact that the administration courts and the judiciary are now inoperable is still a situation that we face with the State of Emergency, but it is also necessary to reiterate that all decisions currently made in France have been passed through an administrative filter. It really doesn't take these five minutes to explain what the State of Emergency brought in here in Turkey, but I can tell you that the probation period has been extended to 30 days, the talks between clients and lawyers have been recorded, and the phone conversation between prisoners and inmates has been raised only once a week to one in 15 days. 1.143 private institutions, institutions and associations have been brought to life by this decision again, dear friends. Of course, one of the most endless issues of ours is the prisons. Dear lawmakers, our time is limited, but the prisons are very important to us, especially these days. As a member of the Human Rights Review Commission and a member of the prison subcommittee, we have a lot of rights violations, but I'm sure these violations have reached you as well. But let's just say it's not acceptable for Parliament to remain so quiet about the violations of prisons so far. These violations constitute a clear discrepancy in all agreements signed by Turkey. Besides, friends, let's say in particular that the Minister of Justice comes out here and says that there is no torture in the prisons. Dear friends, what is torture? Is torture just to kill people, people, in acid wells, or to keep them on a Palestinian hanger for days? We're probably dealing with torture differently with the Department of Justice. Dear friends, torture is the prison of Ergin Aktaş, who has no two arms. Torture is the arrest of the 15 surgeries who were still imprisoned in the prison. Torture is the lack of evacuation of heavily ill prisoners who are currently awaiting evacuation, including 300. Torture is the administration's arbitrary and unlawful torture of prisoners and prisoners, along with the generalisation sent by the Ministry, depriving them of their health rights. And most importantly, let's just say that torture is still legal activities and the censoring of the text delivered by a current political leader is the removal of freedom of expression, my dear friends. At this point, the debates are very clear whether there is torture in Turkey or not. Come and visit the prisons with whomever you wish, and let us determine what happened directly, dear friends. In addition to that, the decrees in law enforcement have taken away a lot of freedom, but I would like to point out in particular that the latest decision has been made that the right to education, which is the right to human education in the Court of Law 677, has also been interfered with, and it has been decided that students in prisons who have been charged with terrorist organization membership or the activities of these organisations will not even be able to enter the examinations in prison. There's a lot to say: it's really hard to fit human rights into ten minutes, but everything we're talking about today, unfortunately, stays in the air, because 10 members of this Parliament are now prisoners, hostages, and until this process comes, hold on to the freakish law of immunity, because all of Parliament has been removed as one body say yes to these immunitys, hold on to it today because all the channels of democratic politics have been shut down openly. Dear friends prepare the cover that steals the minaret. There is a saying. Not the minaret you stole while you were doing it, dear friends, but the hope of the people you stole from living together. It's peace in the country you stole, the institution of lasting peace. It's the freedoms you steal. The words you stole are freedoms, dear friends. At this point, neither the government nor the opposition parties who support it have the chance to come up with a cover-up, a solution. In this particular sense, as a disgrace to Turkey's history, we immediately and immediately know that our friends are watching us -- we demand that it be done immediately to ensure that every member of parliament meets its right to legislature. Thank you, everyone, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0207par0336	Thank you. It is now time for Van MP Nadir Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0208par0341	Mr. President, I have been promised to express the opinion of our party regarding Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution, which is part of the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill. I salute you all. We discuss the 2017 budget talks in the shadow of war, economic crisis, social, political, economic and cultural polarization in society. We're going through a system crisis with all the sizes of the republic for 90 to three years. It is wrong and misleading to seek out the causes of this crisis in our single day. A system based on pluralism in Turkey, multidigitism, non-formation of the multi-religious society has been built on a monogamous, national-state concept. At the moment of the world and the country's reality and the struggle of the peoples, the nation-state understanding has to solve 100 years of problems that are deepened by the destruction of the peoples, by the destruction of their beliefs. It's not just an obligation to our country, it's an inevitable reality for the Middle East. The Middle East is on the verge of a new formation in the 100th year of Sykes-Picot, which forms the basic lines of Middle Eastern geography. In late 2010, riots began when social movements in the Middle East reached Syria in 2011, and the conflicting process after that reached the sixth year. The Middle East also bears traces of how its past is shaped and how its future will be shaped. In our geography, the country that finished its formation in the early 20th century is Syria. Syria is also the prototype country of the Middle East, which formed after it was formed in the Middle East. The country's participation in this level of war in Syria is an effort to give its own colors while the prototype is forming. We'll see if the war raised by these experts will have the same results as it did in the past. But the living society can also have different consequences than theoretical plans. In addition to being old in the face of current realities, the lessons and teachings that have been learned by historical order in the past promote chaos and conflict. In the Middle East, what has happened in our country over the centuries has revealed that lasting solutions need to be developed. The freedom of the Alevi community, particularly the solution to the Kurdish people's freedom of faith and worship, the equal law of different peoples, beliefs and identities, is essential to living together, it cannot be postponed. The talks between Mr Abdullah Ocalan, Kurdish public leader and government delegations at the end of 2012 on behalf of the solution of the Kurdish issue through the democratisation of Turkey, are the most important development in the history of the republic over 90 years. The permanent resolution of problems, the way and the way to end conflicts, is to negotiate, as in other examples around the world. No matter how fierce the war is, the only way to end this war is through dialogue and negotiation. We, the party, would like to point out that we do not ignore the efforts of society to perpetuate the prospect of peace. In the process of negotiations going on for about three years, the conflict stopped and no one lost their lives during that time was a win for everyone who wanted peace. The Dolmabahçe agreement and the principles mentioned after these talks are very important and still important for the introduction of solution principles. Since April 5, 2015, the aggravated isolation of Mr. Ocalan is still being carried out illegally. As we arrive today, the most concrete indicator of impact mechanics is the beginning of isolation. As we move towards the June 7th elections, it will not be long before this agreement and the dissolution of the talks will be considered a historical error. The Kurdish problem is not a conflict problem; it is a problem that arises because social, political, economic, cultural infrastructure and Kurdish people are being ignored in the state system. The solution is possible only by giving up the policies we express as rejection, denial and assimilation. We who have fought for freedom so far have never thought of the solution to the Kurdish problem as separate from the process of democratisation of Turkey. The solutions to the problem will bring with it a permanent solution to all problems in society, especially the Alevi community. However, this is not the choice of conflict. The plan for the collapse, which has been reflected in the press and has not yet been denied, has been decided at the October 2014 MGK meeting. This decision, made as the dialogue process continues, is the clearest indication that it will be urged not in peace, but in war. Because of the lynching wave raised on the way to the June 7th elections, many counties attacked our county building; our buildings in Adana and Mersin were bombed. A bomb attack was launched on the rally we were to hold in Diyarbakır on 5 June. Despite all these attacks, however, we came to Parliament with 13.1 per cent votes and 80 per cent MPs. However, the will of the June 7th Assembly was ignored, and November 1st was elected. Before the November 1st elections, 33 young socialist comrades were lost in the Suruç massacre in July 2015. Immediately after that, the two police were killed in Ceylanpınar, and unfortunately the process began again. A lynching campaign took place on our party shortly after the November 1st election decision was made. In one night, hundreds of cities, our county buildings were burned down, destroyed, stoned. Our headquarters were organized into lynching and set on fire. However, we insisted on democratic politics against those who wanted to keep us out of the election. There was a live bomb attack on the rally where labor, peace and democracy forces co-organised and democratic politics, rights and freedoms were brought forward, and we lost 101 of our friends. The execution of the October 10th massacre is the greatest massacre against the rising hope of society, and it will go down in history. We entered the November 1st election, despite all kinds of risks and obstruction of our election efforts, and we formed the third largest group of Parliaments with 59 MPs. Dear lawmakers, with the start of the conflict, self-government ads have been issued to force the start of the political solution. In response to the arrest and pressure of the public's political demand, conflicts began in the cities. Many civil citizens lost their lives in these conflicts, dozens injured, hundreds of thousands of people forced to migrate. In Cizre, dozens of civilians were burned alive in the basements we call the basements of violence. From the first day of the conflict, all our calls to the government to resolve these conflicts through dialogue were inconclusive. However, we saw this example during the continuation of dialogue. A ditch was dug in some neighborhoods after increased detentions and police repeatedly harassed the people with Panzers in the streets. In order to resolve the problem, the HDP Imralı delegation delivered the message of the Kurdish public leader to young people who had won the trench at the time, and the moats were closed. As soon as our delegation left Cizre, Nihat Kazanhan, who played in the street, was killed by police bullets. Talks at the time discussed talks with the government on the possibility that forces that were uncomfortable with the process of resolving could commit this murder. However, all our calls and attempts to resolve this process through dialogue have failed. When we have examples of the solution with dialogue, it is clear that choosing a path that persists in war and conflict is directly related to giving up peace. With decisions made in the MGK, politics has been disabled and conflicts have been raised. We have witnessed that there were civilians and patients in the conflict districts that didn't follow the instructions of the Interior Minister at the time, yet they were not able to get out of their homes. This may have been the result of coordination between the minister and the local forces. Even so, however, we have experienced these situations as elected public defenders. We've expressed them in the government's talks as well. Let's not tell here what the Minister of Interior, Efkan Ala, of that time, told us. One day, of course, he will explain to us what power or power these conflicts are led by. However, the main reason the July 15 coup attempt took place is because the army, which has been brought back to the street by conflict, has regained its ability to strike, and the government is responsible for that. The political foot of this coup floor is the bill brought to parliament and envisions the removal of our immunity. In spite of the public, the price of politics is high. Those who say yes to the removal of immunity today face the severe consequences of that price. The 15th of July is a coup attempt, regardless of whether or not the government is involved. The coup attempt appears to have been an unstoppable attempt, regardless of whether the government has information, whether or not the MIT has information, whether or not the General Staff has any talks. The Strike Commission, established on the need to clarify this matter with all its dimensions, has already moved away from exposing such an initiative in all its aspects with an approach that covers the issue. The fact that the government has turned it into a witch hunt is clear with the State of Emergency and its exfil, which was declared immediately after the coup attempt. So far, five news agencies, 16 TVs, 24 radios, 62 newspapers, 19 magazines and 29 publishing houses have been shut down. Writers and journalists were arrested. 15 universities, 96 foundations, 1,325 associations, 19 unions and confederations, 989 private educational institutions and 34 health institutions and institutions have been closed. Nearly 60,000 people have been suspended, over 90 thousand people have been expelled from the public, and nearly 50,000 have been arrested. About 23,000 of those expelled from the public are soldiers and policemen. This means one quarter of total export. The rest of the exports are exports from civil bureaucracy. In the face of such a painting, the coup attempt appears to have a larger denominator of the civilian foot. However, the political foot has not yet been revealed; ministers, MPs, party organisations, and municipalities have not yet received a comprehensive statement supporting the coup from within the government. There is no public information on how to prosecute prisoners approaching 50,000. However, the failure to reveal the political foot of the coup and the lack of clarity of the trials also reveals signs that there could be a negotiation between the government and the Laughing Congregation. We'll see if there's a compromise, and in the coming days, we'll all live together. After July 15th, we follow the appointment and placement of the government's staff. The picture that we see is: Departures from one congregation are assigned to other congregations. Those who say they are struggling with parallel structures should know that they have created new parallel structures in this photograph. Arming the state with congregation structures is creating parallels to the parallel. Mr. President, good lawmakers, it is clear that all these practices have led our country into a political crisis. This political crisis stems from the search for absolute power, the request for president. This political crisis has deepened with the appointment of trustees to municipalities, the arrest of our co-mayors, and the arrest of our co-chairs and deputies, and brought the economic crisis with it. The arrest of our co-Chairs and deputies is a coup to the will of the people. This political coup on 4 November 2016 has already been a disgrace to Turkey's political history. The elected representatives of the people are not real people of their own. These arrests have deepened the polarization of society. The coup attempt to be billed to society today is a blow to the principles of life together. The invoice for the exclusion of HDP (HDP) from political life and its being ignored cannot be passed on to society. There is no society that can handle the consequences of our lack of political life. So far, accusations and accusations against our party are a statement of political blindness that does not see how HDP is indispensable to this community. Of course, there are those who have seen our existence in real life and who know what those words mean. The representation of how differences will live together is being rewarded at all levels of our party today. For labour, democracy and freedom of the people, for freedom of religion, for freedom of the people, for freedom of women, for freedom of women, for unity of the peoples, for local democracy, for labor against all exploitation, for the injustice of water and for the exploitation of nature, for a new life for children, for the protection of a civil society, for the protection of natural habitats, for the protection of cultural and historical beings, for the protection of cultural and bribes, for the sake of a fair order, for unemployment and for a fair division of incomes against poverty, for children's rights, for civil rights, for civil rights, for the honor, for civil and for the protection of civil society, for civil and for the protection of a new democracy and for the peace of the Ottoman Empire. It is not possible to say that those who have lost this chance by detention and arrests, by counting, by ignoring, by ignoring, are acting in the interests of this country. At once, our co-Chairs and deputies must be released, the co-chairs of the municipality must be released, and the trustees who have ignored the will of the people must be restored to their co-chairs. The arrest of Ahmet Turk, who dedicated his life to the peace of this country, is a great political shame, an embarrassment. This shame cannot be carried even by the owners of shame, it must be left at once. The main cause of the system crisis is central, monotheistic, and in denial. The solution is to re-create the system with a decentralisational understanding. It will deepen the polarisation of society, deflate inter-agency separation under the name of inter-governmental harmony, and it will put democracy on the shelf for many years, the greatest disaster the Republic has faced after the September 12th, 1980 military coup. The question that we will find answers to problems in the Middle East and in our country is how to live together. The peace of the Middle Eastern peoples, the peace of our country, the peace of social peace, and the solution to permanent problems will be possible with the finding of ways and methods to live together, to produce appropriate policies. We are not one of those who stole a hundred years from this country, and we will never be, in order to advance their own political power and economics for another three or five years. Our struggle is the struggle to win the next hundred years, when the Middle East and our country are going through a hundred years, and that's what we promise our people, and that's the price we're being paid for. We have begun to fight this price in a way that is ready to pay for our peoples, and we want to say once again that we will never hold back from it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0209par0367	Thank you. Now, the third statement belongs to Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora. [[Applause from HDP rows]] You and the members of your group who will speak after you have been limited to ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0210par0372	Mr. President, I've been promised the budget for the General Directorate of Foundations in 2017. I salute the General Assembly. Deputies, of course, are one of the most important common denominators to come out of the labor of 78 million of our citizens. Therefore, budget talks are a decision on how to spend this joint savings. Of course, we, as lawmakers representing the will of the people, are in charge of this decision-making process as part of a representative democracy. In this context, it is necessary for democratic regimes to exercise the power to represent the people's will in the strongest possible way. Dear lawmakers are not acceptable in terms of the current Constitution, which we constantly criticise in terms of the state of law, in terms of universal law norms, and in terms of the status of the Parliament of Turkey today, and in terms of the State of Emergency practices. Each one of us sees and lives very clearly that we are facing a picture that will have an extremely high political, economic, and social bill. Dear lawmakers, along with the spouses of the Peoples' Democratic Party, who, by the will of the public, are serving in Parliament and qualified to be Turkey's third largest political party, are in prison as well as 10 MPs as political pawns, and we are currently discussing the budget bill for 78 million. This makes the legitimacy of the talks a great and difficult shade to make up for. Mr. President, it is an important tradition of democratic parliamentary regimes to ensure the immunity of freedom of expression between lawmakers and national constitutions on a universal scale. This principle, an important achievement of the struggle for democracy, provides individual protection to parliament's members, law or parliamentary majority, while serving as a collective protection of parliament as an institution, as the Venice Commission reports on its 1996 legislative immunity regime. Dear lawmakers, the European Convention on Human Rights shall have core rights, which must be protected in the 15th article of the European Convention on Human Rights, and in the 15th article of our Constitution, even in extraordinary situations. One of these rights is that no one can be considered guilty until his guilt is determined by a court order, which means innocence. In Article 83 of the Constitution, the completion of a sentence issued before or after the election on the member of Turkey's Grand National Assembly will end the title of genius membership. Again, the Constitutional Court's decisions on Mehmet Haberal and other lawmakers were made in December 2013. The Constitutional Court has made it clear in its decision that the right to be elected with the arrest of the MP has been violated. The Venice Commission, which is an expert on constitutional issues of the Council of Europe, where Turkey is a member of the Council of Turkey, in its report on the removal of parliamentary immunity in Turkey, reminded that Turkey is one of the highest-ranking countries in violation of freedom of expression in front of the European Court of Human Rights; in Turkey, the Constitution amendment on the immunity of parliamentarians in May 2016 contradicted European law norms and demanded that it be withdrawn. Dear lawmakers, the European Parliament approved a recommendation resolution bill envisioning temporary freeze of accession talks between the European Union and Turkey. The situation of our country economy is clear. We all live together, feeling that every political move is an economic response. As a result, these algebraic practices, which lead to instability in all areas, and especially the implementation of the State of Emergency, should be immediately abandoned and open the way for modern and reasonable arrangements to serve peace, strong democracy, the rule of law. Dear lawmakers, I will now address the problems facing minority communities in the context of the Foundation's General Directorate budget. As you know, the issue of confiscation of residences belonging to minority foundations -- Armenian, Süryani, Keldani, Greek and Jewish foundations -- has been one of the key problems facing Turkey for a long time. With regard to these ongoing problems starting in 1936, the appeals to the European Court of Human Rights during the AKP administrations were also affected by some positive regulations in 2003, 2008 and 2011, but they were not able to come up with any comprehensive solutions to the matter of trusts and confiscation. The number of seized dwellings is so high that the number of returned properties remains symbolic. Mr. President, good lawmakers, today is a matter of election regulations of the foundations of a problem in which minority foundations have to be dealt with and an urgent solution is needed. The Foundations face many administrative difficulties because the regulation that regulates the election of the executive boards of minority foundations has been cancelled by the General Directorate of Foundations for nearly four years. The constitutional right is that freedom of choice and selection is blocked, and the freedom of the minority communities is also limited. Although the relevant Foundation representatives have discussed this with government officials dozens of times, there is no regulation yet, and unfortunately no information on what kind of study is being carried out. Mr. President, another important issue is that only 12 parcels of land so far have been returned from a total of 30 parcels of land that have been wrongly confiscated from the ancient Purple Gabriel Monastery Foundation in my district of Mardin Midyat, which is very important and sacred to the Suryani people. We would like to request a return of the remaining land as soon as possible. We also expect that the Suryani Catholic Patriarchy building, which is one of the most glorious structures in Mardin, is to be returned to its rightful owners. On the other hand, the process of cadastro work and practices from the Metropolitan Law have been registered as treasure property of the Suryani church, monasteries and property belonging to them in various villages of Mardin. This wrong practice must be eliminated and this sacrifice must be resolved immediately. Finally, last month, St. Peter and the St. Paul Church, the only remaining Suryan church of the Suryans, began to be used as administrative buildings by the University of Harran University Faculty of Theology Foundation, and we expect this unjust practice to end as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, in this context, as we have stated in our proposal for Parliamentary leadership regarding the problems of minority foundations, the request of our citizens regarding minority foundation property is: regardless of whether it is registered in 1936 or not, it must be returned to the following foundations, which have been unlawfully removed from the hands of minority foundations since 1912, including those who have been taken into the court, and those who have been sold to third parties. One of the other important issues was closed in 1971, which opened in 1844 and then continued to operate under the Lausanne Agreement. We demand that this practice, which is contrary to the Lausanne Agreement, be terminated immediately and open the seminary again on behalf of the state of law. Dear lawmakers, finally, the expression that has been spent by Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivor and, in particular, the expression that hurts the public and especially our non-Muslim citizens deeply and clearly is an expression of preconceived prejudicial judgment about what is outside of their religion, which has become a non-Muslim word in time. Even in the Ottoman era, using a concept forbidden by the decree of a sultan, it is not a crime to say that the word "grant" does not mean non-Muslims. It is clear that the use of this word, especially those who represent the state, will make non-Muslims feel even more insecure and left out. Again, although we have passed the word "voice" in the 2015 University Passing Exam, we have not received any response from the Ministry of National Education until now. Once again, we remind you that Turkey has a multi-digit, multi-cultural social structure, and it is said that those who assume the role of managing this social structure must be considered the most, and I salute you once again.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0211par0390	Thank you, Mr. Dora. It is now up to Izmir MP Müslüm Doğan. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0212par0394	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to ask the court to suspend our lawmakers from their legislative activities, including our co-Chairs: Is this a savings of the oligarchic bureaucracy or is it your intervention in politics? Or how do you prevent the oligarchic bureaucracy from interfering with politics? Dear MPs, I have made a commitment to state the opinion and proposals of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the budget of the Prime Minister's Afet and Emergency Management Presidency in 2017. Budgets are not only economic indicators, but also very important political documents. First of all, the approval of a budget means the legitimacy of a government's activities. In addition, budgets are the most important indicators of governments' approach to education, culture, labor, social rights and freedoms, or almost any subject. This budget period also showed that the EC PARTY government does not stop reading what it knows in domestic and foreign politics and ignores warnings from the opposition. Dear lawmakers, as I have just stated, budgets also provide data on basic human rights. In this regard, AFAD shows us very clearly where we stand on basic human rights. According to the AFAD website, there are 257,818 refugees living in AFAD-based housing centres as of December 5, 2016. According to the Commission's figures, there are now 2 million 758,409 asylum seekers in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0213par0399	He's just Syrian.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0212par0400	Yeah. Only one-tenth of the Syrian populations in Turkey are allowed to live in refugee camps. Over 2 million Syrians, unfortunately, are forced to live on the streets in harsh winter conditions, in a situation that does not suit human dignity. I'd also like to ask you how we accept that 2 million people live in almost every single city of Turkey, in one way or another. We want to know if the government has any plans other than to negotiate against the Syrians against Europe. Apart from non-registered asylum seekers in cities, we don't know what the situation of the Syrians in the AFAD camps is, except for the inhumanities in the camps. Dear lawmakers, one of the things that you all need to think about morning and evening is the subject of child abuse, but only the rape of 30 boys at Nizip Refugee Camp demonstrates how failed we are at this. In a camp of AFAD, an institution of this state, in front of everyone, they abused 30 boys for a fee of $1.5 to $5. What more can we say? What could be more political about children in this world? Parents of abused children can't talk because they're afraid of being taken out of camp or thrown out. Parents know, AFAD officials know, kids know. Moreover, German Chancellor Angela Merkel is also visiting this camp on April 23rd, but our party is not allowed to visit the camp with a delegation. So, is it different in the other camps? I'm afraid not. Gaziantep is number 2 in the Islamic district of Gaziantep. Five Syrian children are also being abused at Lu Refugee Camp. The same negligence, the protected and hidden perpetrators again. We can't even protect the children of the people who seek refuge in us, and we can't even get into housing and education. Tent cities set up for refugees are used as ammunition depots, according to eyewitness statements and NGO reports. The motions for the matter are not being answered. Then, the camp is completely evacuated. The camps in Hatay, Urbana and Antwerp are not allowed to be entered by NGOs, members of the press and MPs. We're asking what's in there, but we're not getting any answers. Then we get up and say that the world has left us alone in international politics about refugees. For international institutions, transparency is the greatest measure. Why would the world help a place where its own MPs can't control, can't visit? And we're putting our inconsistencies back on. The government may not have answered our questions about this until now, and they have to answer these questions here. Is it true that the refugee camps of AFAD (AFAD) have become a sanctuary for gangsta formations such as ISIS and Al Nusra? Do many media organizations and international institutions claim that these camps have turned into ISIS's training and organizational camps? Are the members of the ESO who were fought in Syria paid? Is it true, though, that asylum seekers in the AFAD camps will be granted citizenship in exchange for fighting in Syria? Dear lawmakers, areas where refugee camps will be set up are causing new problems. Building a container city capable of 27,000 for Syrian refugees in the middle of 16 villages of Alevi in Markety Terolar is a direct play with the demographic structure of the region. While the people of the region, who are not included in the decision-making process, continue their search for rights on a legal level, when they want to voice their democratic and righteous demands in peaceful, mass protests, they face gas bombs and pressured water. An 82-year-old citizen died in these acts. Again, similar AFAD camps are said to be planned in Akçadağ districts of the Alevi inhabitants of Divric, Imranlı, Zara, Yıldızeli, and Malatya. Is that a public question? Of course not. Is there an explanation for the public anxiety? Of course not. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what does he do in emergencies, AFAD, and let me tell you a little bit about it. As you know, on 21 September 2016, Tripoli caused violent floods in the District of Beşikdüzü and Giresun Eynesil district, killing three of our citizens. Again, eight of our citizens were killed in August 2015 due to a flood in the district of Hopa, Rize.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0214par0410	Artvin Hopa.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0212par0411	AFAD, who did not listen to the warnings of the NGOs, was told that construction in ecological massacres and creek beds would be a disaster and the balance sheet would be heavy, but the risks were not eliminated, nor were they able to control the flood. Remember, in November 2014, the flood struck again, and three more of our citizens were killed. The work of AFAD teams has only become a matter of exhumation of funerals. While the government's statements of flood disasters are still in their head, we see that neither the AFAD (AFAD) nor the relevant ministries have taken sufficient measures from the views of experts after the floods in the Black Sea. The failure of the AFAD teams in the area in which there was no early intervention after the flood, the lack of co-ordination among the teams, the appointment of officers who do not recognise geography and do not have sufficient information on the disaster, the fact that the city and county disaster plans have not been updated and are not updated due to a conflict of inter-agency authority. Deliberate lawmakers were buried on November 17, 2016 in a cave-in in a copper mine site in the Shirvan District of Siirt. In the disaster when 16 miners were buried in the ground, the search and rescue effort brought out the dead bodies of 10 people from the ground. The work continues for four workers still under collapse. In assessments made by experts and technical disciplines with the participation of engineers, the incident could be avoided without becoming a job murder. Whose responsibility is it for mine workers to lose their lives each time in mining accidents, to be buried and not have their funerals reached? Has the AFAD fulfilled the responsibility that brought upon you in Shirvan? We are well aware of the political attitude that AFAD was given during the Van earthquake. We would like to remind the government of their responsibilities in order to prevent the same from happening in Shirvan. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to say a few words on the Court's report. After the Soma disaster, 5 million, 389,681 TL, still unexplained where this amount was spent, and now a smokescreen is being created about the immovables. Dear lawmakers, what is the reason why an institution's properties are not registered, and what are you hiding? Or why is this institution not sufficiently transparent, and why can't the Court carry out its responsibility as it should? I demand that the court be judged here as irresponsible in the face of the responsibility of the audited public administration and of the Court's control responsibility. I salute you again, my friends, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0215par0417	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. Now it belongs to Diyarbakır MP Ziya Pir. Here you go, Mr. Pir.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0216par0421	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have mentioned my name again, as they did last week. I am also Abdullah Zaydan. I am Nursel Aydoğan. I am Leyla Birlik, Nihat Akdoğan, Selma River, Farhad Encu, Gürsel Yıldırım, İdris Baluken. I'm Gultan Kışanak and Ahmet Türk. And now, Ziya Pir, who lived outside the country for about thirty-six years. As Diyarbakır MP, I'd like to say a few words about the Turkish abroad. First of all, Minister, value our citizens living abroad and support them. It's not just moral support. Spiritual support is very, very important, you've already listed them on your schedule, and you've done well. At the same time, please don't exploit our citizens in financial areas. I'll get into passport costs, phone calls from abroad, car triptics, military, pension issues, if I have time, or else I'll have another time. We saw how much you cared about them a few days ago, at the third airport in Istanbul, at the subway tender for the city. You're going to get it for a billion euros, not on a TL, and in a couple of days, they're going to get half the advantage they get from the euro-dry fluctuation, up to half the budget you're going to give them. That's how much you care about them. Why do I say citizens living out of the country? Because in your audience, there are citizens living abroad, relatives and international students. Now, I'd like to enter the language you used before entering your studies. You're using a very troubled language in the agency's reports. For example, in education and youth studies, the development of the knowledge of young peoples in the geography of our social and relative communities, raising their education levels, say that again in your own mind. Friends, this is a hierarchical point of view, it shows down, needy, and to me, it's insulting. Adeta, you act as if there's nothing we can learn from the target group that they have no experience to share with us. You're looking at young people as the one-type, instructive approach that needs to be earned. What's going on here in geography? As children and young people lose their lives because of their war policies, it is a manifestation of the government's colonial or colonial policies to create new segments and to do so on scholarships. The hierarchical language used in this regard also shows that. One of the most appropriate examples to use in this language is on your website, friends. Another photo of two African children in the youth study department. And just below it is about raising the level of education, and it's very thought-finding. Your secretary just said the same thing about the same thing. This is very dangerous, friends. I'm telling you to reconsider. Western colonial logic has infiltrated the AKP. You've been infiltrated before, we've seen what you've become, and I don't know what you'll become if that logic leaks. Because of the massacres in our geography, young people -- I'm telling you, Kurds and Turkish youths -- are throwing bridges one by one, while the government is chasing other dreams. Again, in your youth studies, you're saying big things about sharing common history and cultural values. From the founding of the Republic, I'm particularly curious as to what kind of common history the AKP will present to the target group in a country where you, in particular, are taught official history -- one type historians -- in educational institutions. I'm sure that's what the Islamists among you are wondering. To your activities: there is no clear framework for working with citizens living abroad and to address problems. For example, what kind of studies have you done for citizens living abroad, what kind of research have you done? What solutions did you come up with? I don't know. What does it mean to engage in activities involving those who live in another state or those who were born and raised there? We know exactly what we're going to offer them as targets, but I'm not sure about you because every day you come out and don't interfere in our internal affairs. You have to ask this: the best integrated part in Austria was the Turks before the Kurds. What happened to him today? What have you done with UETD and the Turks there? Pay for this. Do you think the German Interior Commission is having a closed meeting and there have been 6,000 Turkish agents, MIT agents in Germany, who have killed only Sakina No Life and her friends? No, at the same time, the UETD and the DITB were discussed there. Think about it. I don't know if the State Department knows about this. You are also seeking to defend the rights of citizens living abroad in areas that are very problematic in Turkey, such as non-existent rights and violations of freedoms, which are considered subtitles in the section of the civil service for citizens living abroad. First here, Mr. Secretary, first here. In fact, in order to increase public sensitivity, work will be done to improve the capacity of institutions operating in the field of anti-discrimination, hostility, violation of religious and religious freedom and hate speech. That's great, we support it, but first you've closed down over a thousand charities, dozens of foundations working on these things, and you're saying we're going to do it outside the country. How hypocritical is that? Why are you shutting down the associations here? We expect the same work from you, Mr. Secretary, first of all in Turkey. You have nine titles, work subjects: 1) Anti-discrimination Program. We support it. Do it here, please. 2) Active Citizenship and Equality Participants Program. We support it, we want it here. 3) Justice for All. Look at this picture, look at this picture, shame on you, first justice in this House, here first. You're going to bring our members here, their place right now. 4) Double Language Education Support Program. Good morning! When we say this, you treat us like terrorists in Turkey, for Turkey. Well, you copied our program, the HDP program; how well you've done, we support it, but first here... Five, six, seven, eight, nine. I don't have a lot of time. I don't want to go in. By the way, the programs you run with NGOs abroad, projects... according to what criteria do you give them? Which ones don't you give? You removed your Action Report from the Internet 2011-2013, and then, Mr. Secretary, you may not know it, but ask the people behind you, the people next to you. In Berlin, UETD had a youth-related activity, where did the money go? All of a sudden, they took it off the Internet, showing it as a model project. Why? Because it's not there, it's not a project. Then you did something stupid, let's not count them. Now, dear friends, in order to win one from us, let's not replace our citizens here, in this country, and let's win them, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0217par0447	Thank you. Now, it belongs to Diyarbakır MP Imam Taşçıer. Here you go, Mr. Stonesman.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0218par0451	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Since November 4th, tens of thousands of votes each, including our co-Chair, 10 of our parliamentary friends have been arrested in prison in violation of the Constitution and the law. This illegality must be promised at once and our parliamentary friends must be released immediately. This stance against Kurdish politicians in Turkey who want to bring the Kurdish issue to the agenda through civil, democratic, peaceful politics and who are struggling to resolve it must be abandoned immediately. Kurdish politicians should not be excluded in parliament, co-chairs of Kurdish provinces that have been elected mayors must be removed from prison and extradited immediately, especially Ahmet Türk. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are being debated in public today that a motion will be made to parliament on the new constitution, which is expected to take place with the AKP and the DP alliance. Whether it will be given or not, it is very clear, because there are many such laws that do not come often in such cases. Turkey is also talking about a different proposal for the parliamentary system to go from the parliamentary system to the presidential system, but we don't know how many substances there are, even the name of the future system. However, a new democratic constitution is one of Turkey's most urgent and fundamental issues. The basis for today's economic and political crises is the absence of a democratic constitution. The issue of the Constitution has been discussed for years, decades, and is not off the agenda of parliament as a great expectation of every part of society. Before and after the 2011 elections, Parliament's composition made a move on the change. The Constitutional Compromise Commission was established; public, academic institutions, NGOs, media debates were held. Constitutional experts from different parties, especially the AKP, have drafted constitutional drafts. With the agreement of four parties, the Constitutional Commission also cited over 60 amendments. All these efforts and progress aside, only the AKP and the UMP want to make changes to the Constitution through co-operation. This is where the biggest mistake begins. The majority of the community, the parties they voted for, are excluded, and the Constitutional amendment is being made. Obviously, it is not the changes that will answer the great needs of the society, the Kurds, Alevis, different ethnic, religious, religious communities, but only the government of the AKP and Mr. President Erdogan who put them in front of us. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey needs a democratic constitution, not any constitution. The democratic constitution is a constitution that is shaped by the concept of all segments of a country in an open dialogue and discussion with scientists, intellectuals and lawyers, with representatives of all of its communities at a different level. A democratic constitution does not exist with a simple or absolute majority, nor with a referendum that the people will say yes to 50-60 per cent. The most prominent feature of the democratic constitution is that it is a social contract with the consensus of all communities. From this point of view, it's not like any other law. It's like a corporate contract with the approval of all the partners of a trading company. For a democratic constitution, all owners of the country, Turks, Kurds, Arabs, Lazlar, Circessians, Sunnis, Alevis, Muslims, and non-Muslims must be convinced to say yes. A democratic constitution cannot be made without a process to reveal such a consensual will. A democratic constitution cannot be based on a single ethnic, religious or religious community; it has to be a pluralist constitution that monitors all ethnic - Turkish, Kurdish, Arab, Laz - religious - Muslim, non-Muslim - Alevi, Sunni, Shafii, Hanefi - and different sexual tendencies. The concept of Turkish people should be a constitution based on constitutional citizenship, which considers each citizen equally responsible, but in this case all ethnic, religious, religious, and sexual tendencies of the country must be adopted, as well as laws that recognise their equal rights and freedoms. If the Constitution is to include the Turkish nation -- more than 20 million -- the Kurdish nation living in Turkey -- and the names of other national, ethnic communities. To become a citizen of a country, the constitution cannot impose on any ideology. Therefore, commitment to certain principles must be removed from the Constitution. But those who want another opinion to represent them, who want to live to the full, must also secure the democratic constitution. The democratic constitution should not prevent Turkey from being very formal. Many countries in the world have adopted more than one official language as a result of the different languages of their own citizens. In the United States, English - American English - and Spanish; there are more than one official language in Switzerland, German, French, Italian; Russia, India, South Africa, and many other countries. Even in Iraq there are two official languages; one in Arabic and the other in Kurdish. In various parts of these countries, the languages of national minorities, local communities are accepted in the field of education, even being maintained and developed by the state itself. Although not in Turkey today, there is no way that the first official language will be in Turkish and the second official language in Kurdish. Mr. President, the presidential system can also be discussed, but the presidential system is not just the name of a limitation based on the president and the government at the centre. The presidential system, decentralisation, state systems, local administration, is the name of a change from top to bottom in the formation of autonomous governments. In the most powerful years of the Ottoman Empire, the sultans must not be forgotten that the country is ruled by the state system. A presidential system that is not based on a pluralistic structure, decentralisation, state and local governance systems provides a complete monopolist, monopolist, despotic state structure. In a system such as this, different communities are deprived of the ability to have words and decisions in the country, to represent and manage themselves, to be excluded from the state, to become victims oppressed by the hands of the state. It continues to deepen the crises in society, while Turkey deals with itself and consumes its energy with internal fights. The democratic constitution must approach all citizens not in a position to share the rights and powers of citizens, but in the principle of dealing with them as equals and free individuals, not as a majority, nation, religion or sect. On this basis, as an ethnic, religious, and religious sect, I am many, how old I am, how strong I am, and therefore I must be given more rights to the foundations of the Constitution. There must be a concept of universal values in universal law values, international agreements, human, child, woman, minority, disability, nature, environment and so on. In this framework, the values and perspectives of all citizens, such as providing and guaranteeing their individual and collective rights and freedoms and continuing improvements, are the platform to rise above the original concept. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Like Turks in the Constitution, Kurdish, Arab, Lazler, Circiks, and all ethnic groups, Sunni religiouss, Alevis, and non-Muslims should be granted all kinds of collective rights.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0219par0467	Thank you, Mr. Stonesman.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0220par0468	Mr. President, I demand word in accordance with the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0219par0469	Here you are, Mr. Demirel. I give you my word on 60.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0220par0472	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're discussing and discussing an important issue, such as the budget, in front of the whole of Turkey's public opinion. But we're doing a budget interview with a painting like this -- I suggest that the Meclis TV pulls the AKP lines. Then I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary: is the AKP lawmakers only coming here to raise their hand and lower their hands? Where are the AKP MPs during a time when we're discussing an important issue, such as the budget? We want to know the answer to that. What are we doing living here when it's empty these days? While they're holding our deputies, our co-chairs, they're supposed to continue their primary legislation here, you're holding them hostage in prisons today, but none of the AK PARTI lawmakers are doing their job here. I'd like to present this to your attention. Secondly, Mr. President, I'd like to draw the Minister's attention to an important matter. Now, the University of the Mediterranean...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0221par0476	Complete, please complete.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0220par0477	I'm putting it together, Mr. President, it's important.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0221par0478	Why don't you tell me what's important in the first place?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0222par0480	It's all important, all of it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0220par0481	President, it's all important. President, what we just said...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0221par0482	Wait a second, guys, I promised you a minute according to 60, and I'm in charge of giving it to you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0220par0483	Okay. We have the right to... let me put it this way, you'll be able to assess the importance of what I'm about to say. Mr. Secretary, if you'd be so kind as to take notes, I'd like to ask if we're going back to the 1990s. Müjgan Ekin, a graduate of the Mediterranean University Business Department and a member of the Sur City Council, has not been heard since October 24th. It was done in many ways on social media, where his family didn't apply, he applied to the IHD, to many institutions. Since the taxi from Ankara Westville to go to his friend's house has been removed from the taxi by people claiming to be police officers, the attorney general has received information by calling that taxi driver, but no information has been available to his family.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0221par0486	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0223par0487	I'm ending it, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0221par0488	I gave you two minutes, but finish it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0224par0489	All right, well, let's get him on the record.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0221par0490	Okay.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0224par0491	And for the Minister to know, I'll finish. Excuse me, Mayor. I mean, I told him that the Minister was important in this matter to get his attention to a woman and a situation that needs to be exposed. We'd like to ask you where Müjgan Ekin has been said to have been detained in Ankara for forty-four days. I demand that all Turkish public, Parliament and his family be briefed on the situation of Müjgan Ekin. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0225par0495	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. The members of another group know what to do, their own group and their own deputies. And tell Meclis TV to move that area. You'll get angry, but this time you'll shout, "Why don't you pull us out and pull them out?"
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0226par0499	He'll just have to take it as it is, Mayor. Let the president take a look at it like this. Where are they?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0225par0500	If they don't attract you, I won't interfere, according to him, and then no more complaining.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0226par0501	President, I don't think you should comment on this; there's the AKP Group, the government is here, the MPs are here, they can come and explain themselves if they want. All Turkey is in the public eye, where are the AKP MPs in the budget meeting?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0225par0502	Yes, everyone on budget talks has to talk about the budget on this bench, depending on the subject. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0226par0504	It's not just the podium, it's the president.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0225par0505	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0227par0507	Mr. President, thank you. We need to get the Deputy Prime Minister's attention on something. A large number of disabled people who went to Pttmatics yesterday and today in post offices to get social aid grants from Ptmatics for disabled people have learned that money is not there, it's not there, it's being sent to the branch by name. They say that when they can't pull out of these automatic withdrawal devices, which are blind, deaf, and physically disabled, they go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and And another concern is that some of them can come back ten days later, not the day they're sleeping, because of their own disability, family situation, but when the money sent to the branch, the money sent to the name doesn't come back for a week, there's a concern like that. This is really important. We'd appreciate it if the Deputy Prime Ministers would be interested.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0228par0510	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0229par0511	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, there's been a discussion earlier that we're going to make a correction on.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0228par0512	I've promised Mr. Flagtutan before, according to 60. I'll give him a minute, and I'll give you... Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0230par0515	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to make a correction in order to get it to the reports. One of the speakers who spoke just now spoke about the flood in the Black Sea said Hopa had been the district of Rize. I'm afraid it's not the district of Rize, it's the district of Artvin, I'd like to point out. And we're proud to say that Artvin is a county, and I'd like to rephrase that. I've been promised to right this wrong. On this occasion, I would like to point out that there has been a serious loss due to the flood. The merchant, who suffered a flood, is suffering a serious loss, especially in terms of paying for the damages. We've made several demands from the government on this subject, and we haven't been able to get anything out of it. I wanted to present this once again to the great Parliament. Hopa is the district of Artvin, and I'd like to emphasize that one more time. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0231par0520	Thank you. Mr. Ertan, you're welcome.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0232par0523	Thank you, Mr. President. During the session before noon, I couldn't finish praising the services and works of an AKP MP, but I was intrigued by what he said about the activities of AFAD (AFAD) after the Van earthquake. The people of Van have never forgotten the services of the government and the AFAD (AFAD) after the earthquake. I want to make this clear: AFAD didn't show up right away. In fact, local NGOs and National Medical Rescue Units, called IMKE, were first able to provide assistance to the people who were under the rubble. AFAD arrived too late. In fact, it was not allowed for a German team from abroad to enter the country in the first place. As for the Deputy Prime Minister of the period, we wanted to test our power. He confessed in the form of a confession. More than a thousand people died in the process of testing their powers. I wanted to fix this. This is how the people of Van remember the work of AFAD. In addition, 17,000 dwellings were loaned to the people of Van. I just wanted to let you know. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0233par0527	Thank you. Mr. Bostanci, come in. I'll give you a minute according to 60.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0234par0531	Mr. President, thank you very much. She asked, "Where are the MPs from the AKP? Some of the AK PARTY MPs are here. Budget talks are being held within the Parliament by televisions. Our friends are following us, so rest assured. All of the AK PARTY's deputies are monitoring budget talks, and I'm going to have to raise my hand on the nation's behalf -- and I'm going to use it in quotes -- and that's what's sometimes being used in the inquisitive sense -- and they're going to be around this time, and everybody needs to be sure. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0235par0534	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0236par0535	Mr. President... 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0237par0572	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the final speaker is Sidri Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0238par0575	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on the Turkish Language Foundation. Turkey, as it is known, speaks many languages and dialects, especially Kurdish and dialects. Even so, the Turkish Language Foundation's aim is to develop only Turkish language and ensure that it is used in all aspects of life, which suggests that it is a continuation of a monotheistic mentality. In this regard, I recommend that the name of this institution be changed to the Organization of Languages. The acronym may remain as it is, but I recommend that it be changed to the Turkish Language Foundation. After this name has been changed in this way, those who have expertise and research in the languages spoken in Turkey must form subcommittees to be assigned within the institution, such as Kurdish language, Suryani language, Armenian language boards and so on. These boards must do their best to make up all kinds of infrastructure for basic language education in Turkey and to make education practice in the main language within a calendar. Legal barriers to primary language education must be removed immediately. Because pedagogues say it's hard for those who lack basic education to learn a second language, they're being stubborn in these people, and also pedagogues think that tattling is developing in these people. In this context, I would like to share some historical identification and suggestions on Kurdish language with you: the Kurdish language is part of the Iranian branch of the Indian-European language family. When Islam came out, the Arabs called the Kurds "Kurdish," "Kurdish," "Kurdish," "Kurdish" and "Kurdi" in plural. The first Kurdish Sahabi and his son, Caban Al-Kurdi and Meymun Al-Kurdi, are the first in history to be known as the Prophet of Hazreti. In the early Islamic era of Kurdish language, the author and historian who called this language "El-Lugati il Kurdiyeyya" and said it had many dialects, was Mesudi (who lived about a thousand years ago in the first period of Abbasi). In his work, "Murüc Ez-Zeheb" in Turkish, every Kurdish team has its own dialect. One of the ancient texts about the Kurdish language that reached our day consists of eight articles recorded in the book you are currently seeing, dated back to 88 B.C., written in Kurdish in Gorani Hawrami dialect, and used in an Arami bond contract. Those substances are now in a large volume of research that I have here. If the camera shows it, our people will see it, and I can show it to you after the show. There are two more books I'll try to show you. One of them was a gift in Kurdish for Yusuf Ziyaeddin Pasha, who wrote on the orders of Sultan Abdulhamit, while he was the Governor of Mutki, and a Kurdish-Arabic dictionary. The same writer, the same Sultan II. By order of Abdulhamit, he writes a pamphlet called the Gramer Qaeda of the Kurdish language, which is here, in my hand, and on the image of the author. So, where are we today? Although all of this has happened today, according to a regulation published on 5 October 2016, the newspapers have banned Kurdish, even though they have already published a page on the corners of the newspapers, and the newspapers are forbidden to include Kurdish news except in regular ads and ads, so newspapers, such as Tigris, Modern, Free News, have no longer published them in Kurdish. I'll tell you what else. I think the multilingual signs that the municipalities produced and hung in Kurdish were downloaded after the appointment of trustees in single language, rewritten in Kurdish over the public response, but so small that we have to look with microscopes, telescopes, lenses to read next to the Turkish name. Therefore, writing such small letters of this name in Kurdish, not caring so much for it, is an expression of not caring for Kurdish itself, and again, I would like to say that it is still written in the Parliamentary transcripts as Kurdish ▪ and unknowable language. For years, I was President of the Kurdish Language Institute of Living Languages at Mardin Artuklu University. It turns out that in all this time, I've been the head of an unknown institute of the language, and it turns out that that's how you put me there. [[Applause from HDP rows]] We have a few Kurdish-speaking lawmakers on this stand who are being lynched, and again, I want to say -- especially because there's power in parliament -- to the Kurdish lawmakers in the EC PARTY, isn't that touching them at all? The Prophet has a thing for AK PARTY power, why don't they ever remind you? It's called an empathic incident in Islamic literature, which is the original: I mean, one of you is not a believer unless he wants what he wants for his own soul, and one of you is not a believer unless he wants what he wants for his own brother. If the Turkish Language Foundation or the AK PARTI or the government, the opposition party, whatever they want for their official Turkish languages, whatever right they want, whatever they have given them, they will be in the midst of this event, if they don't give them the same rights, especially in Kurdish. So I say again, let the Turkish Language Foundation change as the Association of Languages, and let it investigate all languages spoken in Turkey, especially Kurdish and dialects, and let them call me if they have difficulty at the point of research, and let me come with my team and prepare the infrastructure for them. (Applause from HDP rows) Let's bring the experience to life here. I believe that the brotherhood of the people is the brotherhood of the languages. There's a saying, it's a Kurdish-Turkish brother who discriminates between these languages. Here, who makes one of them into a formal language -- especially the Turkish Language Foundation -- and who can't use philology and theology professor like me as much as any of you in Turkish? Then, on behalf of my people, if you believe, in the name of this incident, in the name of religion, in the name of humanity, I demand this right. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0239par0589	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0240par0590	Teacher, who made you vice president there?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0241par0591	Mr. Kadiri, who founded Artuklu? Who lifted the bans? You might as well thank them.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0240par0592	Give me a little credit, Hajji. You can thank me.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0242par0593	If only it hadn't been conjunctural, it would have continued.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0243par0594	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0244par0595	Master, pray to those who do this, thank them from that stand. Come on, Mr. Kadir, don't do it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0245par0596	Teacher, bring the picture.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0246par0597	Maybe friends want to talk in front of you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0247par0599	No, no, it's over, it's over, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0246par0600	Sivan Perwer, when our President was Prime Minister...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0247par0601	Mr. Lightning, of course it's all...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0246par0602	Mr. President, just a moment... In Diyarbakir, Ibrahim Tatlises and Shivan Perwer are listening to a Kurdish song by Shivan Perwer, which means I miss you. I can't get enough time on the microphone, so I'm saying on behalf of my people and their loved ones,
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0247par0605	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0248par0606	You have to ask Yasin Börür.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0249par0607	Those who sang in Kurdish in this country were going to prison, who lifted the bans?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0250par0608	You threatened Sivan Perwer, Hajji.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0249par0609	We were accused of bringing Shivan Perwer to the country and making him sing.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0251par0610	We'll talk more, we'll talk more.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0252par0611	You have to ask Yasin Börür.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0253par0612	Congressmans, of course...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0254par0613	Let's investigate Yasin Börür. We said you didn't come! Shame, shame! What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0253par0614	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0255par0615	You threatened Sivan Perwer, because he sang. Sivan couldn't get into Perwer's dorm. You threatened Sivan Perwer.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0254par0616	We said, "Let's investigate." You didn't.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0253par0617	Mr. Ironel, calm down.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0254par0618	Come on, let's investigate. We said, "You didn't."
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0253par0619	Calm down, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0256par0620	Who has lifted the basic language bans in Turkey?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0253par0621	Mr. Dalkulic...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0257par0622	Then it's you. We've said that before.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0258par0623	Sivan Perwer couldn't get into Turkey because of you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0257par0624	Come, let's investigate, let's find out who it is, who it is.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0259par0625	Congressmans, I beg you, please...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0260par0626	You threatened me, you threatened me.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0261par0627	You threatened me.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0259par0628	Look, everybody listens, let's listen to each other.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0262par0629	Shame on you! It's easy to talk from there.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0263par0630	We're expecting thanks, thanks, prayers from Mr. Kadir.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0262par0631	It's easy to talk from there. Shame, shame! Have some shame! Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0264par0632	Mr. Demirel, I was going to promise you 60, but you already spoke reluctantly.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0265par0633	You silenced the Turks, the songs.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit02spe0264par0634	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0264par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Yes, Master, you've entered the system, I promise you for a minute according to the Civil Code 60. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0266par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, the campaign to reduce the use of this dollar that Mr. President has started is a very good campaign. You know, it's important for morale. Of course, in fact, Turkey has a high need for foreign financing, and it's a very technically useful campaign, that's another thing. But there shouldn't be any misunderstanding here: Here, Mr. President, bring your foreign currency under the pillow, or turn it into TLS, or turn it into gold. Here, it's okay to translate into TL. It's fine, but it's wrong to turn it into gold. The important thing is that the money outside the system is brought into the system. When we turn gold into gold, increasing the demand for gold means that our gold imports will increase, creating a separate problem. I think we should be careful here. Second, there are contracts with currency right now, there are a lot of contracts. If these are translated into Turkish lira, some new fees are being raised. And I think it would be appropriate for us to immediately arrange for these fees to be reduced to Turkish liras, to actually make a law in the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0267par0012	Thank you. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 Yes, in the previous session, the talks of the People's Democratic Party Group were completed. Now it's time for the nationalist movement group. The first statement belongs to the Ottoman MP Ruhi Ersoy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. We'll give you 20 minutes of your time in your first conversation, then we'll rest it and give you another 20 minutes, it looks like.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0268par0055	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the first chapter, I will address the budgets of the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey and the President of Afet and Emergency Management (AFAD). I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, the most general definition of human rights is defined as basic rights and freedoms that must be guaranteed for all people. Human rights are the rights that a person has because he is human; therefore, moral, therefore, human and virtuous. Every culture makes the historical development of human rights according to its own acquish. In modern structures where humanity defines the democratic legal system, human rights are derived from the reference sources of Magna Carta, and eventually brought to the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This may, of course, be part of the modern time descriptions that we're part of, but when we look at our own cultural acquish, we see human approaches in all of the concrete and non-responsive values of Turkish culture. From Orhun Books to Kutadgu Bilig. From Sheikh Edebali's advice to Osman Gazi, we see the political and historical extent of this issue until Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the republic. When we consider our religion, Islam, in terms of the history of Islam, our Lord's Farewell Hutbesi, as a definer of the basic nases, we see that human and human rights history is also a point of reference, and we read between the lines of individual rights and freedoms. When we come to the point of the sum of these approaches, our friends, human rights will refer to an approach to the individual, to the individual, to the individual. There are references to human rights; pressure on group and community rights, groups or communities, of course, can be positive or negative about human rights. But freedom and personality are the main point of origin here because the point of origin is that it prioritizes the individual and takes the individual to the center. I'm going to make a point between that and what I'm about to talk about. The founding leader of our party, Basbug Alparslan Türkesh Türkş at Nine Light, says that in hopes of being a tyrant and a non-disciplinating freedom is anarchy, and an unfree discipline is dictatorship. Mr. President of the State Garden and democracy are twin brothers, and our main hope is freedom and personalityism. What is the basis of my emphasis on this subject, I would like to express it: if you can bring it to a point where it can be terrorized by feelings and thoughts by subjecting it to the individual's personality, it's a violation of human rights. Here, like the PKK, terrorist organizations such as DEAS began their exit point with a violation of human rights, resulting in human rights violations. As a result, the will to drop a bomb from the top of the Assembly also committed crimes that violated the right to live by violating human rights by taking instructions from Kandil. But what's bigger is that the bigger thing is that these terrorist groups control their freedom without reference to individual and freedom. I would like to stress this in particular, and I propose that this approach to human rights violations from the perspective of terrorist organizations should be answered in this framework to the West, as well as to those who claim that freedoms on human rights have been narrowed down today. When we look at the historical adventure of Western approaches in this scope, are the United Nations' powerful countries doing policies according to rights or according to the strong? There are two phases here: First, United Nations countries, countries that fit the Bill of Rights in the same way, members of the United Nations Security Council, OSCE members, how many human rights designing the global system at the point of determining policies? Or do those who desire to shape the entire Middle East and all geography from the shores of the Black Sea to Yemen, do they do all this for humanity, or do they do it to create the basis for some work that can improve the standard of life for the people of their homeland? Now, this is a huge question mark. Of course, we respect the common conscience of European public intellectuals, conscientious, moral journalists, thinkers, human rights, but we believe that the common conscience should also respond to this double standard attitude in his country in the environment in which international global barons massacre warmongers in the wars of war and responsibilities. We're not satisfied with this, but in this environment where we are facing refugees and guests in the near Syria and the Middle East, Turkey has recently hosted 3 million Syrians in our contacts in Germany, where we represent our Assembly, which disturbs our people. The approach here is that we consider it a problem to remain silent against warmongering and power of attorney wars in policies related to human rights violations. Two: We do not find the issues related to the removal of the resulting victims and their practices in their approach to them sincere, heartfelt. Our emphasis here, of course, is on political will, governance and institutions that govern those states. We described the experience of the Human Rights and Equality Foundation, which we laid down in 1990, as being the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey in 2016. Societal needs and developments, the actual events that have arisen, are institutionalizing a number of developments by collecting them with experience over time. That's how governments develop, transform, become monocles, like societies. The Human Rights Review Commission, established within parliament in 1990, can only be institutionalised in 2016. The story of institutionalization about AFAD (AFAD) that I'm about to talk about is more than that. The institution has three basic tasks: the duty of protecting national human rights, the duty of national prevention mechanisms against torture and abuse, the fight against discrimination and equality institution and its audit. In terms of its structure, we have written our opposition solstice in a comprehensive way as this board is formed. Eight members are elected by the Council of Ministers, appointed by the three-member President. On this committee, we stressed that we strongly contradicted the non-representation of the National Party of Action. But the other remarkable thing is that we don't need the Human Rights Council in the previous budgets, saying, "We don't need it." Hopefully, we'll be a less human rights violations that we don't need, or even a country that doesn't happen. But when I looked at our report card in 2016 on the OECD Education Report, I faced the fact that Turkey was in the 34th position in 35 OECD countries in which children had an equal opportunity, that 1 million, 297 thousand children could not go to school, that every 10 children in the six-year-old group could not go back to school, that 40,266 children -- I'm a suspect -- have continued cases of abuse, and every month I've faced the fact that 650 children were being subjected to abuse at the Forensic Medical Association. Yes, the responsibilities of nationalist, holy, conservative people must take serious measures at the point of searching for the truth, facing facts beyond developing political language through these rhetorics. We also see that applications to the European Court of Human Rights have increased in Turkey on issues related to human rights violations. It's a positive development to see the right of individual application to the Constitutional Court as a measure of that. But what is happening in our country and the existence of government officials who are trying to maintain a conscientious, moral, and humanitarian stance on the radical measures the state has taken against the terrorist operation we've been exposed to is as well known as the existence of those who are willing to discredit each other and put everyone in the same bag. It is clear where the National Movement Party stands on the decisive course of the PKK's fight, and it says "state" to the end, it says "nationality" to the end. In doing so, the main emphasis should be that human rights violation, with the will to bomb the House, should be executed in the most decisive manner by decrypting this organisation scheme, particularly the council of the peace at home, as well as its political extensions. Mr. President of the State Garden, which Mr. President has repeatedly highlighted in the group talks -- we don't, we don't, we respect -- to be processed on different occasions from the concierge, from the nurse, from the nurse, to the everyday person, yes, if there is, the nature of this crime, if there is, the relationship with the ByLock province, he will suffer, no matter who is closest to us, no matter who he is. But where does it go when it comes to high altitude hills? The absence of the question is a contradiction. I repeat with emphasis on the need to be treated fairly in violation of human rights on this occasion. Dear MPs, dear President, dear bureaucrat friends, the establishment of the President of Disaster and Emergency Management is after an important experience, just like the Human Rights Council. With these experiences, we've been hearing more about AFAD through the recent Middle East crisis and the Syrian explosion and the refugee crisis, as we've been called by earthquakes, floods, disasters. Yes, we often hear the AFAD (AFAD) about refugees, but as part of the AFAD (AFAD)'s responsibilities, we see that the obligation to hold on to chemical attacks, floods, earthquakes, in any extraordinary circumstances, to help people is on their own grounds, and we are determined to work with it. At the point of disaster regulations, 99 Marmara earthquakes were the starting point. In 2009, the chairmanship of the Prime Ministerate's Office of Disaster and Emergency Management was established, and various ministries also formed general directorates, and ultimately the institution that has taken its current form remains the presidency. When AFAD read all the reports in the commissions during the debate, all political parties welcomed and appreciated the work. One thing they warn you about is that AFAD is more transparent and more accountable. Of course, AFAD is working with emergency regulations, which may be kept out of some legislation in order to make the purchases much faster, but in terms of public conscience, the warnings I've seen in the Commission reports of budget talks from here, at the point of transparency, I felt a need to emphasize. One of the other and fundamentally important issues here is the value of the rights of the AFAD employees. Due to their undetected work in all natural climate conditions, we need to improve the rights of our friends by removing the AFAD compensation for the employees of the central and rural agency. Without recognizing the term, 24/7, the city disaster and emergency departments working in all kinds of disasters and emergency search and emergency rescue agencies need to be paid overtime to search and rescue technicians in any disaster and emergency situations. It is a necessity that emergency rescue vehicles among disaster and emergency rescue units are also included in the budget law's list of vehicles to be made to be taken in the budget law, which is envisioned for the vehicles and fire vehicles, between the administrations of disaster and emergency rescue rescue units. Information officers working for the departments of disaster and emergency services need to be taken into the category of technical services, and they need to be seen as part of the work. The same must be judged by the relationship between the one who performs the action on every subject and the one behind it that gives him technical support. It could be the Turkish Armed Forces, it could be the police, it should never ignore the sacrifices of technical staff. For search and rescue services to be more effective in small cities, the number of search and rescue technicians must be increased by 10. Deputies of the districts of which have not been appointed and which are under proxy need to be appointed soon. But one thing I have to emphasize here, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is that there should be assignments, given that the people who work at these institutions work with a mission, not as a career managers, not as a career managers, but as a service to humanity, have been made aware that this is a place of humanity and a national mission. A new institution was created. I don't think it should be seen as a place where the locals will be transferred from different institutions to their allies, where they'll be given office offices. In other news, after floods and extraordinary natural events, the AFAD services are withdrawn, and the funds after that may be related to the Treasury. In this regard, a number of demands are coming to the Treasury in connection with AFAD (AFAD) about the failure to pay for aid in the flood. It's also a matter of the following... of the AFAD presidency... and the relevant ministry... co-ordinating with the Finance Ministry on this matter. News on this issue tells us that there has been major damage due to the flood of the Trebzon Cradle, and we know that some of its needs have been slow to be met by the Treasury. Another thing I know closely is that Kırıkkale Sulakyurt County hasn't had the government's support for two years in the face of rain and flood damage to the county infrastructure. Although Kurıkkale has taken other counties of the city, our friend, the Mayor of the National Movement Party of Surakyurt, who worked day and night for the Surakyurt, has stated that he could not receive these helps, and I would like to point out from here. As we wrap up our statements on this subject, one of the things that I want to emphasize is that AFAD must also exchange co-directive ideas with important NGO organisations that are helping with the mission of the NGO. It's okay to understand that the state does everything, but that the coordination of services with the organization of the state can also be coordinated with AFAD... when those NGOs came and we did it. But AFAD, at this point, what did you do? Where have you taken them? He might ask, " What kind of contribution can we give you? ' I would like to proudly express the help of the Ülkü General Assembly in January, Ülkü January General Centre, as well as the help taken from Hatay through Turmen Mountain, through Hatay in the Turkish Mountain crisis, to Türkmen Mt., Müsul., to Kerkuk., to Alep, Iraq, to all kinds of bureaucratic obstacles, and to demonstrate its own will, with determination and determination, as well as the help taken by the President of the UK and his friends. I want to stress the fact that state-national cooperation is inevitable in the organizations of AFAD and charities. Speaking of which, there are some words on the Law about the Help to Farmers Who Are Hurted by Disasters, as well as that of farmers who are expected to have at least 40 per cent of their production tools and facilities and to have no income to cover damage and harm, the fact that there is also an uninsuranced disaster involved should be included in this regulation. This results in the fact that even though our farmers have lost almost all their products, they are unable to receive any help from the government. So, we, of course, will help Syrian asylum seekers to the end and do our humanitarian duty, but we have to be careful here, members of lawmakers, ministers: this much service is given to Syria, when these resources are being transferred, floods flood my country, hits my land full, and what do you give me? The state says we're responsible in every field, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0269par0081	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. We'll rest you for 20 minutes. Now it's up to Mr. Ismet Bünataman, MP of Bursa. Here you go, Mr. Bigataman. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] You've got 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0270par0086	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Party Group on the budgets of the President of the President of the Council of Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, and on the budgets of the President of the Foreign Turks and Associations, and on this occasion I salute your delegation with my deepest respect. The Turkish economy has not registered a stable, high-profile growth in 14 years, nor has a healthy investment, production and employment chain dried up. Inadequacies in savings, foreign trade and the current movement in the open have been the main components of the economic narrow throat. Unfair taxes, young unemployment, unregistered and social distortions threaten social reconciliation dynamics. Turkey's economy has begun to separate negatively from the precedent countries. The lack of an economic-based approach to economic policy, avoidance of production, unemployment, inflation, increased debt, corruption, a predictable legal and justice system has a negative effect on economic developments. That understanding didn't attract investments. Growth is based on low-tech sectors where we have no chance of consumption, imports, short-term foreign financing and long-term competition. During the AKP's rule, land and zoning rants have reached extreme stages, and condensation has continued in sectors such as construction of artificial plus values. The 2017 budget is also free to address such problems in an environment where danger bells ring in domestic and external debt, debt payments increase, public employment decreases in public employment, investment reductions in investments, commercialisation and marketing practices in basic social areas such as education and health, tax injustice, revenue distribution is even more corrupt. In short, the 2017 budget does not contain an approach to the structural problems of Turkey's economy. It is a budget that cannot establish the balance of resources and spending, without healthy and strategic priorities, therefore allocates resources to non-producing areas, does not encourage sustainable, qualified growth, does not increase employment, does not increase savings. With that understanding, it is not possible to provide financial discipline and to use resources effectively. Given the negative political and economic developments in our region, unrealistic medium-term programmes and budget targets are unlikely to take place in 2017. Our criticism as the National Movement Party is aimed at resolving the problems of the Turkish economy, boosting social peace and prosperity. Dear MPs, millions of our citizens live in every country in the world. In addition, we have people in a large geography where we have a close relationship with sociocultural and historical ties, we refer to them as our relatives and relatives, who have reached 300 million. Both our citizens and relatives living in other countries are the sole basis of the state of the Republic of Turkey, their faces are always facing our country, and they always want to see the support of the Turkish state behind them. All governments based on the importance of the matter have appointed a state minister in almost every period to coordinate matters related to our citizens and relatives living abroad. However, there is a lack of co-ordination in determining the needs of our citizens and relatives and establishing policies for these services. The lack of a central structure gathered under a single roof to solve the coordination problem and produce better services was significant. In this framework, the presidency of Turkish and Relative Community abroad has been established to co-ordinate all the relevant institutions in order to work on our citizens living abroad and to address their problems, to develop social, cultural and economic relations within a plan, and to successfully conclude the education processes of students who come to our country for the purpose of education. As the National Movement Party, we have repeatedly expressed that for years the foreign ministry of Turks must be established, both in our election statements and in our talks. In this scope, we find the establishment of the president of the international Turks and Relative Communitys, which has just entered our state agency, a positive but inadequate one. This institution has been established to perform some new tasks with services previously performed by other institutions. It is possible to gather services under four main topics: activities for our citizens abroad, activities for relatives and relatives, activities for NGOs and activities for international students as part of institutional work units. For these main operating areas, there is both inadequacy and a number of jobs and services that have never been done. More work will be done for the Council of Foreign Citizens and the Council on Cultural and Social Relations Co-operation Board, the creation or strengthening of the Council for Civil Society support. The presidential setbacks and organisational problems related to foreign and domestic diplomatic missions must be resolved. During this period, the President of the Turkish and Relative Communitys abroad has produced important projects. For example, similar activities, such as the Crimea oral history study, must be continued to increase and apply to our other heirlooms. Similar studies would be appropriate for Turks, Ahiska and Uygur Turks. One of the most important steps with the establishment of this institution is that state scholarships to international students have been merged into a central and dynamic scholarship system under one roof. With these studies, Turkey should become a centre of attraction for social and cultural activities that international students want to study. However, we believe that the work for the students brought in is insufficient. How are such numbers of students being followed? How do we prevent them from falling into the hands of harmful structures such as Ankara, and how do we make them the bridges of the true heart with our country? On the other hand, in our opinion, it would be appropriate to be more concerned with quality than quantity. So fewer students, but more opportunities, more attention and tracking will be useful. Of course, not only should this follow-up be carried out after graduation, but also after graduation. It is known that there is a co-ordination problem in studies involving family members and relative geography. At times, we see that our relevant institutions are doing multitasking work for their territory. Unfortunately, we can't say that co-ordinating for this area is the head of the institution, while the chairmanship of the international Turkish and Relative Communitys Agency and its duties are written in the Law. As a result, the work of the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys is aimed at making amends for the neglect so far. However, studies on family relations and relative geography seem to be less than expected. We still find that even on very basic issues, there is no common language, common understanding, and cooperation. For example, in the coup attempt, we saw that we were unable to fully describe ourselves, even in the family and relative geography, along with the West. Even a very clear coup attempt, the family and relative geography couldn't read from where we were looking and unfortunately couldn't analyze it. Here, our relevant institutions need to examine themselves and conduct their work for society and public opinion. So I think it would be helpful for us to recognise our values that make us who we are and to re-enact our relationships through them. The basis for resuscitation and evaluation of projects for international students must be subject to objective rules. To give an example, the fact that all Turkish-rooted lawmakers supported the bill in Germany and the bill was adopted in the voting of the so-called genocide bill is a recent indication that work in terms of citizens abroad is not at the level to produce effective results. In Germany, where we have over 3 million citizens, our political influence and our ability to act on civil society are so low, it shows whether our work for citizens abroad is insufficient or not. Respected MPs, TİKA, East Bloc and the Soviet Union were founded in 1992 as a technical aid agency for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under the name of the Turkish Co-operation and Development Administration. Since its establishment in 1992, the TİKA has implemented important projects to support the development efforts of Turkish Republics. In this context, South and Central Asia are ranked first, with 53 million dollars in the regional distribution of the aid done by TİKA (TİKA) in 2014. The countries that benefit the most from the activities of TİKA (TİKA) in this geography were Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzistan, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan. However, it is observed that Africa was placed first when the report of activity in 2015 was examined. Aids to Africa appear to amount to almost 50 percent. This clearly reveals a situation that contradicts the purposes and goals of the founding of the TİKA (TİKA). Also, it appears that the TİKA (TİKA) has no offices in Greece, Bulgaria, even though they have co-ordination offices in many countries from Africa to Europe, Asia. Whatever it is, we'd like to know from our Deputy Prime Minister. Djibouti has co-ordination offices in Chad, but not even a liaison office in China, or Russia, where millions of Muslims, Muslim Turks, live. We hope that progress will be made in these matters these days as part of developing relations talks about joining the Shanghai Co-operation Organization. It is very sad to see that Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, which has helped everywhere from Gaza to Afghanistan, Nigeria to Pakistan, has become indifferent to our Turkish brothers and sisters who are having a lot of difficulties just beyond our borders. The services of the country's goals and ulterior NGOs in the region are truly admirable. Our wish is for our government to quickly bend and take care of the problems of our family members who live here. In the previous years, attacks were carried out, especially on some of the representatives and works of TİKA (TİKA) in Africa. We hope the measures are taken to improve the safety of employees in countries with security shortages. Our country has been through a great deal on July 15th. May God never show you such times again. Those who govern and seek to rule the Turkish state must be vigilant, not easily deceived, not deceived. That's what it takes to be a great government. The great state must not give up its foreign relations, technical aid activities, as promised by a community, a cult, or any NGO. Until 2013, Turkish officials had made a move to support the schools of this organisation, which is called the "cemaat," during their visits to different countries. These schools, commonly referred to as Turkish schools outside the country, were viewed and supported as educational institutions where Turkish culture was encouraged. The top government representatives attended the official opening ceremonies of these schools. With all this oblivion, there are serious indications that embassies in the Turkish Republic and that the offices of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency are being used as offices. It is our sincere hope that these mistakes will not be made again. Dear lawmakers, the foundations are powerful and radical institutions that have come from the hundreds of years of Turkish nation's struggle for civilization, from its imagination, and remain effective in a large geography. Foundations are the best examples of Turkish philanthropy. Values that represent universal values accepted by every society in the world, such as cooperation, kindness, sharing, justice and rightfulness, rise above Muslim Turkish civilization. The Turkish nation, which welcomed millions of immigrants from Syria, once again showed it to the world. Foundations are responsible for maintaining and building the foundation cultural assets of the General Directorate and the foundations it represents, making economic investments and restoring and renovating them to operate in accordance with the conditions of the day, and giving them rent when necessary. Today, a restoration study is possible, especially in Istanbul, whichever city you visit in Anatolia. It must be appreciated, of course, to claim neglected historical artifacts. However, it is our responsibility not to rush these things, to be given to the competent, and to be prevented from being runt-based. We keep track of mistakes in restorations, especially when the embroidery is destroyed. We face news almost daily that historical artifacts have been unconsciously destroyed. Mr. General Manager has also stated that wrongs have been done, for example, in the case of Zivas Gök Medrese. As he said. Should be more careful about these matters, those responsible for the mistakes must be warned. Sadly, the events of some foundations cloud our citizen's mind about the foundations, causing the lack of interest and conversation to those institutions. Sadly, there have been cases of abuse in some of the institutions that have been involved in education in recent years. It is important and necessary to address such cases with determination, and a contrary approach should be known that public opinion causes serious discomfort in its conscience. We hope that these mistakes have been learned and will no longer be repeated. Respected MPs, as I end my words in these feelings, I wish the 2017 budget would bring blessings to our beloved nation, and I salute your delegation with my deepest conversations.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0271par0108	Thank you, Mr. Bigataman. Now, again, it belongs to the Ottoman MP Ruhi Ersoy. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0272par0111	Dear MPs, October 29, 1923, the declaration of the republic. We all know that Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the Bani of the republic, which, after the establishment of the young Republic of Turkey, intends to argue with different views of the different oratories today, has a concern at that time. Fuat Bridge Hodja calls, Mr. Fuat, we've established the republic, it's time to raise our republic and state on scientific foundations. Please establish the Turkiyat Institute within the Darulfünum of Istanbul. It is instructed by the board to prepare for ten months after various studies and then to do the final touches by Ataturk. And once again, the late Fuat Bridge comes and Mustafa Kemal Ataturk/e is founded, sir. How would you recommend his emblem? Let the snowed God be a wolf with a torch in his hand in front of the mountains. This torch is an expression of the science of the young Republic of Turkey. Let Bozkurt, who guides us out of Ergenekon, express the establishment of the new state of Turkey in Anatolia. This is Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and we are a political party fighting for protection and defence to the end of the Republic of Turkey, which is called Turkish for the second time in history. The bodies of institutions created by the basic approaches of the republic continue with studies related to the institutionalisation and integration of the republic from history, including the Institute of Turkic Studies, the Turkish Language Institute, the Turkish Historical Institute and the Musiki Muallim Meteps at the time. We want to highlight the fact that both the ruling party and the Republican People's Party must not be confused with anachronical errors, historical contexts when describing Mustafa Kemal and his practices in 1923-1938, and that later periodal and regional external developments should distinguish between internal politics. These studies are the result of the mind of Mustafa Kemal, who cares for the knowledge of the people and of feeding on the knowledge of the people and of the People and of the People of Ziya Gökalp, my father Ziya Gökalp, who has referred to the People's Article of Ziya Gökalp. After 1960, especially the conditions of World War II, the cold war perceptions, the strengthening of the communist bloc, and the events of the outside developments, set up another institution in the Turkish state's mind. The name of this institution is the Institute for Research in Turkish Culture. The Institute for Research in Turkish Culture is an association, but it is founded by nationalist, holy, scientists based on the values of the republic. This institution, the Institute for Research in Turkish Culture, does scientific studies on the Turkish world, and feeds the state, without politics, from that period on. Now we're talking general budgets. Mr. Vice Prime Minister is here. The work on our budget -- even if it doesn't apply for this term -- has been returned from this budget to the general budget in previous times. Do you think that the Turkish state has established the Institute for Research on Turkish Culture, the Society that serves for public good -- again -- to continue its existence symbolically, as with other institutions -- and to give a source to the institution's employees that they can print press-references, to do their scientific work? If you don't think about it, please think about it and let's bring the Institute for Research of Turkish Culture to life. And this place is trying to live in the spirit of all the great teachers who have served, who have gone to mercy, who have served, and who want to keep it alive today, with the zeal of the devoted teachers. I want to express it. Dear lawmakers, where we come from today, what are the expectations of these studies and institutions? What we expect from these institutions, which bear the name of the great Ataturk, whose origin is Turkish nationalism, is particularly the painful memory of the land on the 15th of July, where we have had a bitter experience and an expression of how, without hesitation, the hands of the nation, the original owner, turned the weapon in their hands, and turned it into a weapon. It is our duty to reserve information through these institutions, which can be transformed into a nationally conscious, nationally-identified international strategy developer instrument. So in many European countries, such institutions feed politics. We don't know how much these institutions feed the government, the politics, maybe we shouldn't know. I'm curious, has the opinion been taken from this institution when the Solomon Shah Temple was being moved? I wonder, as some developments continue in the Middle East, while the Syrian crisis is under control, have these institutions at our historical acquish have been able to pass information on to relevant units, turning it into a service of wisdom, or are we doing politics with the knowledge of experts and intelligence in the field? The main problem of our universities and science in Turkey is the problem of not running to work. Since wise scholars with books on shelves can't put their thoughts into action, the means to put that information into action should be able to move to the political channel through these institutions. The intermediary here and the instrument, they have to be these institutions. In advanced societies, political parties have been able to make it possible for the government to run as reserve information. After expressing the mission of institutions in this framework, I would like to remind you of the issues that must be done immediately in this particular context. In this regard, scientific studies must create the following unit in a coordinated way with the higher institution, and the dissertations should be met in a joint pool of nationalism, Ataturkism, the republic's acceptance and sharing strategic information. If there will be an academic study on this issue in Turkey, with the continuation of previous academic studies, scientific studies in our country, let's find out what the final situation is, from the cultural center, and move to new areas. It is necessary to establish an archive, information, system. Information is given faster and easier access, and new issues are not allowed without applying to this centre. The work that has been done is archived, it is able to take advantage of the archives quickly and easily, and its work in the conclusion is given to the service of politics, the mind of the state. Furthermore, even though institutions have had a rich period of publication since long ago, there is trouble at the point of public transportation. I've learned that there have been demands for sales cars from universities in Anatolia that have been waiting for years. When I got ideas from the Turkishological centers in Anatolia, from the historical departments, from the teachers, to see what I could say, they said, "We'd like to see more cars on our campus." Apart from academic literature, we expect more popular publications and scalpels to form Turkish consciousness in children and youth, creating love for Ataturk. We're waiting for more development of university and business forces, and as I just mentioned, the academia will become an updating, updating interface of the state when science reaches society. We say that members in the management of institutions must be chosen on the basis of merit. I think it should be brought to these duties, not as officers, but as officers who do these tasks as a mission, not as a duty, not as a duty to the Turkish nation, the Turkish state, the Turkish nationalism, the Mustafa Kemal Ataturk values and the Turkish mind. Although I intend to continue my speeches more comprehensively, since we will give the last five minutes to my friend Kamil Aydın, who will be speaking about the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Foundation after me, I will finish my speech in these three or five minutes, and Kamil Aydın Hajji will use the remaining time. Which reminds me of the President. The 15th of July is the beginning of a new era in Turkey. The truth is that there is no way out of this country unless we look for our heritage and acquish in the roots of this country as its own real sons, without national identity and national awareness. To return to the national currency today, the understanding that there is no other way out than to face our own facts today and to come out of unity and unity has shown us this fact. We need to see the fact that we can't come to the conclusion of political polarization and political feuds in this country, when it's clear to any terrorist organizations, armed terrorist organizations, that if the time comes, the people who feel that they belong to those who may not be armed and who feel that they can be. In this regard, the leader of the National Movement Party, Mr. State Gardenian Bey, should know what the Turkish nation really means for the future of this new era, in terms of Turkey's unity, in terms of the development of the new era of political actors, and the removal of the fences in this policy. In this regard, it is imperative that bureaucrats, executives, and academia, who are involved in all the institutions of the state, act with this consciousness where they are knowing this fact. The political developments ahead, the social developments, and international developments suggest that there is no other way to go than here, and there is no street to go. We don't want this House to be bombed again by international forces by domestic-visited junta-loving terrorists. We can't swallow the pressure of Turkey through the power of attorney wars. The fact that the nationality, nationality and universality scale would be universal without nationality, that political Islamists would have to meet in the common denominator of international discourses, and that they would have to meet in their common denominator, and that they would die for you in these squares. May the Istiklal March be with you, Turkish nation. May God never set the conditions for this nation to write an Isolation March again, that our unity and our unity be eternal, that he completes my words here, and I leave the rest of our words to my dear teacher. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0273par0127	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın will be the last speaker. Mr. Aydın, yes, I'll add 20 more minutes. Mr. Ersoy's already expressed it, so we're not breaking it, plus 20 more. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0274par0131	Dear President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding the budgets of the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Society. I salute you all with the utmost respect. But before we get to the point, I'd like to make a point or two. Very valuable lawmakers, the relationship between science and politics -- our medical brothers know very well, there are doctors among us -- kind of like a relationship between blood types. So, as the EU group gets from other blood types, politics takes a lot of advantage of other sciences. So there's a relationship between science and politics: science is a unique, neutral, independent, hard-working production; that's knowledge, that's science. Politics exploits knowledge, exploits science, and is affected. But if knowledge or science or scientist are put under the command of ideology and are blind to the wishes of politics, there will be no right outcome. On the other hand, we have a very beautiful proverb: "People agree to talk, animals to sniff. " Indeed, it is the only common language that allows people to communicate. So it's the common language that brings both the politicians and us together here under the roof of this great House. What is our common language? It's politics, it's political. Look, our ideas may be different, but I'm telling you very clearly, we're trying to understand each other, a flavor from different provinces of Turkey, geography, maybe local identity and culture, and we're trying to use a common language. What's this one called? Politics. That's what language is like. So, let alone being a sociologist or a philologist, just a little bit of knowledge, knowledge, wisdom, even, really, enough to know how a family came into being. He knows what it's like to turn from one family to another, to another, to another people, to another people, to another people. We know, it's natural because it's one of the things we learn through life. So, in other words, it's the name of how many and messes move towards unity, the process of nationalization, the process of nationalization, but unfortunately, some speakers have been very obsessed with this nation since morning. What is a nation's state? Right now, when we're stuck, we give examples of EU countries, we give examples of the United States. Friends, valued MPs; these are countries that have completed the nation's state processes. In fact, they are moving towards structures like the European Union, which have passed beyond the nation's state, an international structure, a top structure. But for some reason, when we're about to complete this process by trying to explain it, it's always said that it's a very old, very old, very unwanted structure. Friends, here we are, trying to make politics together under the roof of the Grand Assembly, a achievement of the nation's state. What's the point? To serve this nation, the precious members of this nation. So, when you say that, sir, let's not get the wrong idea, sir, that there is no denying the existence of our local wealth, local identities, local languages, dialects. Look, we're talking about a structure that came out of their union. The U.S. is a very well-known example, because everyone is in the presence of the people, and because everyone knows that the United States of America has a town called Albuquerque in the state of New Mexico. You'll see there in particular that different groups of Indians live together. I'll give you a few examples of these: there are Cherokees, there are Cheyenne, there are Comanches, there are even Lagunas, and there's also the Chicanos of what we call Hispanic. Now, we had a meeting with a group of different tribes as a Turkish delegation. Believe me, all of us there, look, even though there are representatives of different tribes within themselves and we are a delegation from Turkey, we have tried to reach an agreement using English as a common language. They made that very clear to themselves, and our local languages are different, but we must use English, which is the common language, in order for us to agree amongst ourselves here. Now, I'd like to put it another way: we're friends, we're friends, here are our delegations going abroad. How do we do this? Regardless of your purpose, what do we do when we travel abroad, whether it's the execution of a bureaucratic process of political purpose, political purpose from education? We use the common language to communicate with the students there, either with the delegations or at the educational institution where we live. It's gonna be weird, it's gonna be condescending, there's nothing wrong with that. So, thanks to that common language, in fact, we meet and become friends by divine command, so we become friends with an Italian, a French, an English, a Greek student. How are we doing? We're using that common language. Thus, the existence of this common language is said not as an expression of unity, revelation, but as an expression of imposition, singularity, dissolution. On the contrary, to argue otherwise is not a common language, but many common languages are delusions, and indeed it is a matter of dissolution, reversing history. How is that possible? So, like in science fiction novels, you get into a time machine, you go back a hundred years, two hundred years, five hundred years, but that's not possible in reality. Dear MPs, therefore, the National Movement Party, indeed, has produced a number of slogans based on the knowledge of its knowledge to the RD. There's no point in underestimating them. I mean, we're really a belief in the Turkish-Kurdish brotherhood from a thousand-year-old past. So, we're going to tell our knowledge exactly in accordance with our knowledge, as in the original: yes, the Turkish Kurdish brother, but we call it the PKK rat. We're saying this clearly. Are we making a mistake? Was it to enter the axis of ideology, or was it to use knowledge, wisdom, knowledge, to direct politics? I appreciate you considering this in particular. Honourable lawmakers were added to the Turkish Institutes of History and Turkish Languages after September 12th, with two other institutions called the Ataturk Research Centre and the Ataturk Cultural Centre, so the body of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute was formed from these four structures. Thus, the works of the Historical and Language Institutions were divided into other institutions, but the two main institutions continued their former activities. The Turkish Historical Institution, as stated in Law 2876, has continued its work on Turkish and Turkish history in 1931, to study, research, promote, publish, and write Turkish history and Turkish history on the basis of this. The Turkish Language Foundation is obliged to do research, do research on Turkish language, and find solutions by dealing with the current issues of Turkish language. Meanwhile, on November 1, 1936, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who drew a short and brief framework for the duties, authority and responsibilities of each of the two institutions, stated at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that these two national institutions, as well as our history and language, have been forgotten in darkness, are doing a sacred task, not only as we have demonstrated with scientific documents that represent the beginning of the world's culture, but with the interest and awakening of the entire scientific world. Members of parliament, the Turkish Historical Society, which became an official state institution after 1982, has at times made some breakthroughs with individual efforts of governance, but has failed to carry out the academic activities expected of it, not as scientific as its resources are expected. It's because he doesn't have all kinds of free and academic structure. The Turkish Historical Institution is able to provide scholarships and projects in support of such activities, supporting and supporting symposiums, congress and various meetings under the existing laws and regulations. Despite the legacy of Ataturk, some tables were created with external support, and because of limited resources and legislation, academic structure was unfortunately not strengthened. Again, because of these legislation, the institution had to close down and sell its unique printing press in Turkey. Thus, other institutions, particularly the Historical Society, had to tender their printing work to other printers. Unfortunately, this has been negatively reflected in the cost of art and the quality of pressure. Unfortunately, the talks in order to improve the existing legislation and bring the institution to work have not yielded the desired result. Their efforts to free institutions academically, make them move smoothly, and in a sense make them into a structure like TBITAK have failed. Members of parliament, the other day in the opening statements, Mr. Finance Minister said: "Sir, we've devoted the largest share of the budget to education. Now, when you say education, we're just referring to activities in institutions or schools that belong to the Ministry of National Education. However, education is now -- in the European Union, these are also projects, named -- the name of an activity that is born from the cradle to the grave. So it's not fair for me to just index it to the Ministry of National Education. Exactly, the ministries, which are owned by many institutions, such as the Turkish Historical Institution, the Turkish Language Foundation, are also involved in educational activities. So I think it's unfair to go to a constraint in that sense, just to think about it with an axis of the Ministry of National Education. But as the relevant minister's statements have been written down, in order to encourage the production of information at the Turkish Historical Institution, we would say, "Woe to you if I told you the number of students and students in 2016, the number of scholarships." We're trying to improve the academic size of an institution that's so serious, so important, with so small, with the size of the fingers of one hand. On the other hand, budget figures have been obtained in comparison. We must ask the Minister of Finance and the minister of the Republic, the minister of our Turkish pupil institutions: on the one hand, millions wasted in the name of publicity and celebration, we remember that we are the great state when we bring them up. We're big, we've got to make everything big for him, we've got to have a big fleet of planes, right? Our palaces, our ministries, our roads, our subgates must be large. What's it gonna be? Here, we're going to go from the Bosphorus to the side, but we're not showing the same sensitivity at the point where we're going to pass from generation to generation, passing from generation to generation, passing from generation to generation. Sir, the numbers are very clear. In 2016, Turkish Language Foundation received 15 million 239,000 euros and Turkish Historical Foundation 10 million 233,000 euros; in 2017, such as the fitness of this, it was added a little bit like its intelligence; these are the numbers. Now, we're looking at these numbers -- really, we're looking at the idea, we're looking at the status quo, we're looking at the vision -- two very serious, meaningful institutions, but what's he going to do with this money? But, more interestingly, we can't say that nothing has been produced because we have friends who have done a lot of good work in this business because of their dignity, respect for knowledge and responsibility to their nation, but we still find that even though this budget is limited, at the expense point of 2015, only 55 per cent has been spent, and 65 per cent has been spent in 2016. Could such an institution, then, be said to be very active, very active, very predictable, or what is written in the vision? It's hard. So it's kind of hard to talk about the existence of hundreds of books, documentaries, paintings, thesis, research, works that are related to our history, our culture, and our own unique production of international authority-like works. Why? Because we have learned from Western sources that the Great Hun State of Turkey, Attila the Turkish Khan, was the strong leader who caused the migration of the Clericals, and also that God should take the form of the whip of Rome. Again, we have witnessed that even in Latin America, the so-called Armenian genocides have passed. On top of that, there was no such genocide in EU countries. Dear lawmakers, we are the horse whose roots are past. We can clearly say that by acting on the word of the law, nations who have broken ties with the past have risked their futures. On the other hand, we have to consider this sensitivity in language, opinion, and unity, as the Gasparite pointed out. In other words, we have a large Ottoman balance. So, you know, we've been locked up in a geography 30 times smaller than a 24 million square meters of geography, but it also gives us a responsibility. Every value in that Ottoman balance geography, culture, the elements of civilization, must also be studied and examined and revealed. Again, it has to be done by the institutions that we care about so much, that we put it in a very important place with its vision. Thus, today, the values, knowledge and documents of the nations and societies drawn with ruler in the Middle East, the Balkans, and Africa are in our archives. Therefore, it is up to us, our relevant institutions, to sort them out and share them with the public. Today, due to their respect for knowledge, wisdom, Turkish cultural and historical heritage, we also have very valuable Turkish scientists who provide great academic achievements in Turkish language, culture and history, but unfortunately they are not authorized by institutional ownership or by improvements or contributions to their efforts, projects, and research. However, in 1914, Turkey witnessed an event, a structure that valued knowledge, wisdom, Turkish culture, even during the war. I'd like to share a brief anecdote here: Sir, Mahmoud of Kashgar has a work called Lügat-it-Turk. It's a thousand years old. In a very clear way, sir, a work of Turkish language, culture, posture. But believe me, I'm talking about a work that we knew existed until 1914, but we didn't have a copy of it, the Court of Lügat-it-Turk. When? We get it in 1914. You know the story, don't you? But I would simply like to say a very interesting story, sir, that although its existence was known until 1914, there is not a single copy of it found in the bookbook of Nazif Bey of the former Finance Minister. Because he knows the value and importance of the book, Mr. Nazif carefully conceals it and then entrusts it to a relative, a lady, who says: "This book is very valuable. You can save it, but if you're in financial trouble, there's gonna be a day when you're in need of bread -- in case of war -- you take this book to the field, sell it, but the real value of it is 30 taels, and don't give it down, because it's very valuable. If you have to go hungry, do so. Indeed, this is happening, and the lady is in a difficult situation, taking you to the field. Sahaf Burhan Bey says, "I'll really sell it, but who will give it to him?" He sends it to the official officer, the overseer, who says, "Look at the scientific value of this one -- let's put it in our library." The delegations are gathering at Lord Emrullah's presidency, which is worth 10 gold pieces, and she won't give it to me. The next day, a Turkish thinker named Ali Emiri, a great man raised by Diyarbakır, a great scholar, a scientist with great knowledge, a teacher, a reader, often comes into the field, goes to the field, and says, "What is there today?" Book patients, bookworms, you know that disease, you don't stop, you go. What's new? Actually, you looked at it a day ago, but did something come up? Burhan Bey says: "We have such writing, but its value is great. How much do they want?" Of course, when Ali Emiri takes his book into his hand, he starts shaking with great excitement and great joy. He says, "Oh, Lord! He knows you exist, but there's no concrete copy. When she sees him in her palm -- she hides her spirit -- so that she doesn't raise too much -- she says, "Wouldn't it be 30 gold pieces, or 10..." her bargain is a little low... because she doesn't have any money, either. It looks like there's no compromise from 30. He's leaving right now, and he's a neighbor, a friend, a friend, everyone, if he's got 3-5, he's got 3-5, he's got 3 or 5 loans, and he's got 30 gold liras and he's got it. On the way home with the book, he often looks back on it, wondering if someone would give it up, if someone would come and take it away from me. He's got a lot of excitement. He's going home, and that night, he starts by candlelight, and he's cleaning it, and he's reading it. Let me make this clear, and then he shares it with a friend of his own whom he cares about, and they look at it together, and they say, "It's a beautiful piece." And then they discuss it with him. This is growing, growing, even going all the way to Gökalp. The knowledge of the existence of this book. He's a bookworm, and he wants to have a copy of a writer who expressed Turkish culture, civilization, Turkish language a thousand years ago, he wants to see it, he doesn't let him see it, he puts lawmakers in there, they don't let him see it again, they don't show it to Gökalp. Let's cut to the chase, and then Mehmet Akif even gets involved in the translation and all that. At last, Kilisli Rifat and Ali Emiri have succeeded in bringing this to our library, to the Turkish nation. Now, really, we know that these institutions -- we know that there are dozens, hundreds of Ali Empires, dozens, hundreds of divans, Lügat-it-Turks, there are artifacts, there are lots of structures produced by this nation, there are lots of structures produced by this geography. Well, then, I think it would be nice if we could focus on what needs to be done. What can we do? Turkish Historical and Turkish Language Institutions, which will be academically liberated -- as expected of them -- should be able to establish closer scientific relations with the Turkish world and develop and conclude projects. Sir, what else are we supposed to do? We had a lot of tables, depending on the Turkish Historical Society. This geography has a wealth of great wealth, many cultural axis, many ethnitis, many languages with axes, so the institution should focus on them and do their work on them within itself. What's more, I'd like to talk to you about one more important flaw. Sir, of course, there are foreign experts who contribute to Turkish culture life, Turkish language life, so we never forget them. I'd like to talk about many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many. Madam Minister, Andreas Tietze has a very important book written by Mr. Tietze, the historical and etymological Turkish Legat of Turkey. Look, this is a very thorough study, two volumes published, but no new editions. The answer we get when we ask is, sir, we handed over their rights to TUBA. TÜBA will then carry out such activities. I think that this book should be given in the form of a reprinting of this etymological dictionary, which is a great work of Tietze, who died in 2003, as soon as possible, as soon as anyone, his family, his family, anyone, should be interviewed and provided. Yes, dear lawmakers, as a final statement, the big game continues. Mr. President has confessed today that the big game is finally going on, in today's speech. Really, the big game is going on, so this Sykes-Picot project, which they cooked 100 years ago and put in the oven in 1918, continues. So this project, which is the name of our nation and geography being divided into tiny little bites, is unfortunately on the agenda today. So, look, only the actors have changed and the phrases have been revised. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In order to break this game, we need free generations of conscience, knowledge, wisdom, and at the same time, in the language, in the opinion, in order to absorb unity. I'm saying that the most important potion in the upbringing of these generations is the science of history and language. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0275par0159	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Bozkurt, you've entered the system. I promise you for a minute, according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0276par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. Friends, like our President, some AKP speakers call him "Mustafa Kemal" (Mustafa Kemal) and can't say "Ataturk" (Ataturk). On 24 November 1934, however, the Veteran Parliament adopted a unanimous law of 2587 and a Parliament named Mustafa Kemale, Ataturk. At the very least, I think we shouldn't stop saying the name Ataturk, which is unanimous by members of this House on the stand of this House, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0275par0168	Thank you. Mr. Aslan, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0277par0171	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you this.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0275par0173	This isn't a question-and-answer.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0277par0174	Well, then, I'd like to process some information just now.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0275par0175	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0277par0176	Ali Emiri is originally a sheik, and then they became Kurds, and his father is known as Seyit Mehmet Sharif Efendi. He was born in 1857, and at the age of 6, he remembered, and he knew 200,000 by heart. So, this information is available, it's accessible. I would also like to ask Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0275par0178	While we're at it...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0277par0179	I just did, and you didn't give me a say.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0275par0180	Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0277par0181	About 100,000 people emigrated to Lebanon. Among them are Arab, Suryani, Mehellemi Kurds, and when some of them migrated there, they went without an ID. They were neither a Lebanese citizen nor a citizen of Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I need to finish this information, please.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0275par0184	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0277par0185	For the record, they didn't get Lebanese citizenship, and they're having serious problems right now. Do you have any work on it, do you know about it?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0275par0186	Thank you. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 The words for the groups are complete. Now, the first statement, on behalf of individuals, belongs to Ankara MP Ahmet Gündoğdu. Your time is five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Gündüz.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0278par0228	Dear President, my dear friends, on behalf of myself, I have made a pledge in favour of the budget bill of 2017.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0279par0229	Mayor, you're wearing a red tie this time.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0278par0230	When the AK PARTI staff prepares all the budgets, their main goal is human dignity. Human dignity holds the safety of goods, safety of lives, safety of religion, safety of reason, safety of the generation; religion, race, whatever it may be, is a natural universal right. The coups and terror also aimed at human dignity -- the 1960 coup, 1971 coup, 1980 coup, 1997 coup, 2007 coup, the latest July 15 coup and, by the way, dozens of coup attempts. In the repelling of the July 15 coup attempt, we need to prioritize three concepts -- the existence of a leader, our President, who, when the coup happens, invites the nation to take over. Second, the people who believe in this leader are the truth. Third, three of our political parties were here the night the occupation forces weren't even targeted, where our 3 political parties resisted the coup, and the 4th party signed an anti-violence declaration the following day. In yesterday's talks, we arrived first about the opening of the House... I don't know who went in as a watch, but we can't open up the Security Council, we can't open up your lives in an environment that our Parliamentary Speaker came to the Parliament that day to run the Parliament, while he attended the crisis meeting in the Prime Minister's office, our friends, Jüliide Sarıeroğlu and Aydın Ünal, and we'll come to the Assembly to open the General Assembly, and we'll be invited to the General Assembly, and if they come to us, we'll come to you with their own safety.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0280par0233	What's he saying?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0281par0234	That's not true!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0280par0235	That's not true!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0282par0236	That's not true!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0283par0237	He's shaking!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0284par0238	My dear friends, in the presence of three political parties that night...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0285par0239	That's not true!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0286par0240	Shame! It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0284par0241	Be patient. Patience, my friends. ...we applauded each other standing up, and one of the never-forgettable jokes of that night was what happened between us and Free Bey. I saw him come in without a jacket when he was building the Presidential Court, and I gave him my jacket so people could see integrity, and he wore it without hesitation. A few hours later, when I returned the jacket, you thanked me and eventually dressed me in your national vision jacket. He made the joke. But that night we were all Free Special. We were all Ahmet Gündoğdu. We were all Ismail Kahraman. We were all Erkan Akçay. We were all Erkan Akçay. And it's not like I don't like Free Bey's speeches -- at times -- with all due respect -- when I don't like the way he talks, I wonder if I shouldn't have gotten that jacket back. Dear friends, there was a difference with the size of those who did the coup that night, the people who abused this country's homeland and religion had attempted a coup; two, for the first time, there was a political institution that opposed the coup media, civil society, but the third, there was a difference in fighting the coupgers. God, this five minutes went by fast.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0287par0245	Go on, go on.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0284par0246	I would like to say here that I stand by my word, without looking at why these so-called journalists, who watered Ergenekon, were inside, without looking at why, I stand by our principles. You don't remember the name of our MP, Ataturk. He was saying, "Is this a good fit for Ataturk's party?" And I'm saying that the idea of politicians against coups and terror should bring the fight against the coupters and the fight against terrorists. I salute the General Assembly and wish you the best of our budget.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0288par0249	Thank you. Mr. Inus, you've entered the system, I promise you by 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0289par0254	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, we must first declare that what happened on the evening of July 15th was a coup attempt against political power, political parties, elected parties and all of the 79 million people, and on that night, here in parliament, especially our Parliament Speaker, the members of the EC PARTI, the members of the Republican People's Party, the members of the Republican People's Party, the MP from the National Movement Party, stood up against the coup that day in Ankara, along with all of our citizens. There was a national stance here, and it was very important. All the parties were here, especially when our Parliament Speaker -- except for our fellow officers on the court -- called the members of the group, and we were here, all the members of the parliament who were in Ankara made the effort to reach Parliament quickly. The members of the party group have to sit on the right and left sides of our Parliamentary Speaker, making statements from the bench, at the point where we can deliver our voices to our nation where we are...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0288par0256	Please complete.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0289par0257	Our stand here in Parliament with our members of the press -- during a time when our nation was on the street -- stood together at the point where we could make our voices heard -- stood against the coup. In this sense, this unity, unity, and unity were crucial, not for the ruling party MPs to come first, but for someone else to come later. I sincerely thank all political party representatives who performed this position that night, especially our Parliament Speaker. With this unity and unity on July 15th, the diversity of our citizens, the color of the street, and the stance in unity, has been an important factor in the repelling of the coup attempt. Thank you again, everyone. That's how we remember all our martyrs and wish our veterans a cure.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0288par0259	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0290par0260	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0288par0261	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0290par0262	Mr. Gündüz has taunted the Republican People's Party with words he does not deserve by mentioning my name. I want to take advantage of our right to answer.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0288par0263	I can promise you, but Mr. Inenus has made the necessary statement.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0290par0264	No, that's what I'm going to say.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0288par0265	Here you go, Mr. Special. I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another taunt at this time of night.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0291par0270	Mr. President, as the Republican People's Party, I stand before you with the pride of being the president of a group who has paid the price for democracy, for Parliament, for freedom and for the establishment and for later times, for all the coups, for the presidents of the Republic who have served in prisons, for the members of the province, for the heads of the districts, for the tortures, for the sake of a party who know the value of democracy, for which they have lost their limbs. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I find it meaningful, thank you, to have Mr. Tüyöz....the restitution of a right to his own MP. It is true that I have received your coat from Mr. Gündü, and that we should go to that stand in a dress that is not in accordance with the Civil Code, and that I should not find it right under the bombing; that we are so respectful of this Parliament. I made that historical joke, and I'd do it again today. The answer to Mr. Gündü's words was, "If I had known, I would never have worn that jacket. But if anyone attacked this Parliament again, I would come running up to that bench, and when I leave, I would have worn it, no matter who it was.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0292par0275	That was a good joke.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0291par0276	But in Mr. Gündoğdu's own practice, to defend what he thinks is right, not to give up the rights of truth, but to speak as the dominant and powerful one wants to speak, perhaps today I'll be hurt by someone here, I'll defunction the position the Republican People's Party has taken from no one, without looking at anyone's attitude, without looking at anyone's attitude, and I'll empty it. I see the effort in one word as a democratic and political rawness. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0292par0279	It just didn't work out!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0293par0280	Mr. President, that was a joke!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0294par0281	It's a joke, it's a joke. The merger...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0293par0283	Mr. President, my speech is being deflected, and I'd like to speak according to 69.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0294par0284	I'll give you two minutes. Here you go. Please don't tempt me.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0295par0288	Dear friends, the jacket was a joke, we need to understand that joke. The coup d'état.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0296par0290	Maybe we made a joke.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0297par0291	That's a joke!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0295par0292	Mr. Free, please... There's nothing about the awesomeness of us fighting the coup together. Today, the West tells us: "Blow down the rules of fighting terror, remove the State of Emergency." Some of our friends are asking questions: "Are there any journalists, MPs in France?" And I want the question to be asked correctly: are there any MPs and journalists in France who betray their homeland?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0298par0294	You're the betrayer, you! Who betrayed their country?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0295par0295	I don't have to question the CHP's position here that night, all of us, but I do appreciate that the coupkers, today, are the ones who diluted the Ergenekon case of the terrorist organization...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0299par0296	Are you a judge?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0295par0297	...not because he's a journalist inside, but because they're in the irrigation today, just as he's watering Ergenekon.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0299par0298	You're talking light, light!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0295par0299	I didn't give a speech here that the vice president of the group would testify to. A march based on human dignity continues in Turkey, which will be based on this budget, and it's up to politicians to do until the end, to deal with coupgers, terrorists, not with the old profession, but with the kind of nut they've broken today and the dirty position they've entered. That's exactly what I'm saying. Your former president and one of your deputies are already saying...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0299par0300	Who's telling you? What's he saying?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0295par0301	...but I say not with the scale of criticism, but with the spirit of the 15th of July and the next, again, for whatever reason the Republican People's Party opposed it that night, the opposition, the PKK, the DEAS, or the PYD, the exits we made, the local stance that opposes Westerners' approach to bring Turkey to its knees, I salute you all, and I salute the People's Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0300par0302	What do you say to the Darbe opportunist?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0301par0303	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0302par0304	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0303par0305	Wait a second... we didn't run, okay, stop. Wait a second, let's calm down, let's calm down. Guys, now that we've got a phrase here -- it's being used by all of us -- we've got a really good vibe about that night. I thank all the groups, and I congratulate all the MPs for their sentiment in the struggle for democracy. The next day, we issued a joint statement signed by four political parties. Let's continue with this pleasantness. Please, let's stop this here.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0304par0307	But let's not be opportunistic, Mr. President, let's not be opportunistic.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0305par0308	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0303par0309	No one's having second thoughts about it, no one's having second thoughts about it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0305par0310	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0303par0311	I'm saying, look, let's not waste this process on other political polemics, let's not. It's all yours, though.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0306par0312	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0305par0313	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0303par0314	Just a second... let's finish this two-way, Mr. Ironel. Please sit down. We'll be here till the morning, if you have to. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0307par0316	Mr. President, now, if you hadn't promised Mr. Gündü, this polemic would be over. In fact, there's a situation where the people of the AKPP have come here anyway. He said, "It's unbelievable. And then he says...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0303par0317	Okay, you answered him.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0307par0318	No, I don't give a shit about him... but then I'll tell him later.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0308par0319	Mr. Free, that was a joke.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0307par0320	Sir, excuse me. Your president, a member of your parliament, says what I say, and publicly insults our party by saying what he said before that.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0309par0322	Here, Mr. Special, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0307par0323	Our Ankara MP, our Vice President, Mr. Tekin Bingöl will use the right to answer.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0309par0324	Mr. Bingöl, I'll give you two minutes. Please, I beg you, Mr. Bingol, let us not challenge you to a new challenge. I know your kindness. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0310par0329	My respects to all of you. I mentioned that night in several passages yesterday, but Mr. Gündoğdu had the urge to re-enact his demagogic speech today. That evening, I want to get back to work first, before the government can even reveal what happened, without being known, there's a conversation in the air. Inside a plane is Mr. President and Mr. Hayati Printer, sitting side by side. No one's figured out what this is yet. Mr. Yazri's bodyguards are coming, telling him what happened in Ankara, on the Bosphorus Bridge, with a very tense face. Mr. Hayati Printer is extremely nervous, nervous, and while trying to figure out what's going on, he turns to our president and talks about it. Mr. President, don't worry about holding Mr. Hayati Yazri's hand. This incident, no matter who or who the coup attempt is, we, the Republican People's Party, will be facing the end of this coup attempt. He says, no one is aware of it yet. On our way here that night, the AKP MPs will come, they'll take the situation; we'll go, we'll take the edge off. We didn't come with an understanding. That's an ugly attitude. We came there of our own free will. In fact, as soon as Mr. President gets off the plane, we've arrived at Parliament with instructions from all CHP MPs in Ankara. (CHEERING) Your coming here never tied us up. But, when we got here... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're so relieved that we're in the living room, despite your tense, nervous face. As soon as we entered the hall, we exposed our position, we said, "We are opposed to this blow," and we stood up straight. Please choose your sentences carefully. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0311par0336	Thank you, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0312par0337	For the record, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0311par0338	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0313par0339	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0311par0340	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0313par0341	Mr. President, in his oratory speech, he said that there was also the State of Emergency in France, but that there were no arrested MPs there, and that there were no arrested MPs there who had committed treason in private.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0311par0342	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0313par0343	...in a way that was insulting, not taunting, but plagiarizing our group and our fellow trustees.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0311par0344	Mr. Demirel, look, here's the thing: no, it's not about you... it's not about your name, it's not about your party.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0314par0345	No, Mr. President, who's the detainee?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0311par0346	Absolutely not.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0315par0347	Who's the arrested deputy in this country?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0316par0348	Who's the regent who betrayed the country?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0317par0349	Well, let him explain who the traitor is.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0318par0350	I didn't mean to...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0319par0351	Then the president will tell you who's the agent who betrayed him.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0320par0352	Who's the arrested deputy, the prisoner, the arrested deputy?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0318par0353	Congressmans, look, he hasn't made any statements, not counting the names of your party or your party.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0320par0355	Mr. President, that's what he's saying, that's what he's saying.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0321par0356	Who's under arrest? Tell me who you're talking about.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0318par0357	Congressmans, please... if you'd like, I'll give you my word on your position.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0321par0358	Who's the traitor?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0322par0359	Mr. President, the arrested deputy, he says.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0323par0360	President, there's bullying us, our group and our MPs, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0324par0361	I'll give you my word on your location.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0323par0363	No! There's a direct assault on us, Mayor. It's beyond insulting.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0325par0364	Mr. President, who's the detainee in this Parliament?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0324par0365	Mr. Demirel, look, I've tried to give you all your rights so far, and I'm trying to give you another one, but I'm a tease...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0325par0366	Mr. President, then let's...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0326par0367	Then let him say it, let him out, and tell him who it is.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0327par0368	No, then let him come out and say, "Who is the traitor?"
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0328par0369	And if he did, I'll ask for the transcripts, and if he does, I'll give you my word after the break.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0329par0371	No, Mr. President, it's called the detained deputy.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0327par0372	No, Mr. President, no!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0330par0373	No! We'll talk, too, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0331par0374	Yeah, is that the way it is? What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0332par0375	Wait, guys, why are you bullying me like this?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0333par0376	Yeah, who's the arrested deputy?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0334par0377	Who's the arrested deputy president?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0332par0378	You think I'm gonna promise when you do it like this? Sit down, we're talking.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0335par0379	One of you talk, one of you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0336par0380	No, Mr. President, who's the detainee?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0332par0381	We're talking to one of you, one of you, and I'm talking to Mr. Demirel. Please, guys, why don't we all...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0336par0382	Why are you like this when it's our turn, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0332par0383	Look, here's the thing...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0337par0384	You're commenting, Mayor. We're saying...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0332par0385	I don't comment, I don't comment. I see this, I listen, I think I might have missed it. But if there is such a thing, even if I take a break, I'll ask for the transcripts, I promise you, without picking on them.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0337par0386	No, President, no! I'm making it very clear here...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0332par0387	Wait a second... sorry, you don't run it, I run it, I run it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0337par0388	Wait a minute, Mayor, let me finish.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0332par0389	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0337par0390	You're commenting on the president here.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0332par0391	What did I comment on?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0337par0392	So, you're also commenting on your own explanation.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0332par0393	I said I'd give it to you if I had any hard feelings, or I'm not gonna give it to you. Where's the comment?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0337par0394	We'll take the records, we'll look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0332par0395	Okay, we'll see, and I'll promise you after the break.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0337par0396	But let me put it this way: the arrested MPs who betrayed your city do not exist in France. Where's the detainee? Turkey has one.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0338par0397	And it spins, it spins...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0337par0398	Who's under arrest? HDP Group co-chairs are under arrest, group deputy and a total of 10 of our MPs are under arrest. Where does the State of Emergency apply? The State of Emergency is being implemented in Turkey. France put it as an example. Well, let him explain here who the betrayers are.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0339par0399	Mr. Ironel, it's okay, I'll get it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0337par0400	We're very serious about...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0339par0401	I'll give it to you, I'll give it to you, I'll give it to you if I see it, okay.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0340par0402	But don't be so biased.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0339par0403	I'm not biased.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0340par0404	You're definitely biased, definitely.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0339par0405	Mr. Toğrul, I beg you, no.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0341par0406	What if he's on the side, he'll make any promises you want from morning till night?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0342par0407	President, I'm expressing sentences. We certainly don't accept this approach, Mayor. Stop picking on me, I'm telling you...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0343par0408	It's an insult!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0342par0409	...there are charges here, there are different allegations. I mean, is it too much for you here, Mayor, to ask for two minutes of sarcasm?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0344par0410	Mr. Demirel, I'm not going to run away from promising you two minutes without picking on you. And I promise not to tease you, no problem.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0342par0411	Okay, okay.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0344par0412	But what I'm saying is, let's understand each other once and for all...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0342par0413	But when it's our turn, you want a report.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0344par0414	... You should know there's nothing you can do by standing up together.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0345par0415	But the whole General Assembly heard it, the whole General Assembly heard it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0344par0416	I'm talking to you, I might have missed it, I'm saying I'll give it to you, I didn't say I wouldn't give it to you in the first place. I didn't hear it, I didn't hear it, I said I'd give it to you. If you're so offended, if you're so touchy, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0346par0417	It's not a matter of offense, Mayor, it's an accusation.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0344par0418	Here you go. Okay. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0346par0420	Mahmut Toğrul will speak.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0344par0421	Mr. Toğrul, come in. I'll give you two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0347par0424	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, let this country form a union and start by giving an account of how many employees pass through the union they now call the union. Second, is there a power in France that has been in power for ten years, despite all the MGK decisions, that we were deceived even though it remained in power? Is there a government in France that changes the constitution again and changes 17 by 1 article? Is there another political authority in France that signs the text of the constitution they do not see? Mr. President, we and our presidents, our lawmakers, have defended peace on every basis in this country. It's the terrorists who started the war in this country. Those who bloodied this country and produced the source of our problems today are terrorists themselves. Ahmet Gündoğdu has become history as the president of his own union, who lost his employees. He'll pay the worker first. It's not your place to come out here and tell our deputies in cheap words without paying for it, and it's not your place to tell them.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0348par0429	If it's a cheap word, why are you offended? What kind of cheap word?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0347par0430	See those pictures over there. Those photos are here with the honor of the six million people's games, and today, if you're putting them in jail, and if you think you're holding them hostage, you're the real terrorist.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0349par0432	Oh, my God, did we put it in there? Don't talk all the way down. Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0350par0433	Prisoners for what?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0347par0434	You're holding him hostage. Look, taking your hostage and smuggling it to Edirne...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0349par0435	There's no such thing as a ghost, there's no such thing as a prisoner! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0347par0436	...and preventing your fellow trustees from visiting this country is clearly proof that you're a hostage.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0351par0437	Come on, prisoner, prisoner!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0347par0438	First, Ahmet Gündoğ was to answer for them once.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0352par0440	It's political power that's responsible, political power!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit03spe0353par0441	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0353par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Gündüz, you've entered the system, I promise you by 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0354par0008	Dear President, I'm responding to the enemy's delusions in three topics. When we saw the error of our union officials, we said, "Get out, they've formed a union." I suggest we call everyone who sees the wrong one, get the hell out of here. An increase in percentages on the acquish is very little reflected in the pension and pension of officers, and the base salary is fully reflected. We've done all the collective contracts with a percentage increase. We did one on a monthly basis at the request of 11 presidents and bases. At a net increase of 17 per cent, the officer's pension rate was $5,250 net bonus increase on that day; today it exceeded 10,000 euros; and the pension salary of 220 TL increased. So what do I say, the increase in pensions and bonuses goes through the base monthly? Today, when an officer who has a salary of $3,000 retires, $1,800 is the only thing he gets, it increases with a base salary. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The part about terrorism: Those who had their backs on terrorism should also have known that one day the Turkish judiciary would find prisons to back them up.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0355par0013	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0356par0014	Yes, I hope those who put their faith in the congregation will also come out.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0357par0015	Those who oppose the congregation will be judged one day, to the congregation.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0356par0016	You sold the whole country a parcel.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0358par0017	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0359par0018	Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0358par0019	He described my explanations as delusional. Mr. President, it's an open taunt.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0359par0020	Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I'll give you two minutes. Congressmans, please, let's finish this polemic. Look, we're taking a break; again, we're still going.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0360par0024	You started this, Mr. President. Mr. President, did the esteemed lawmakers find out thirty years later? He was the president of MEMUR-SEN. THE ACTIENT YOU, MEMUR-SEN, CAME OUT OF MEMUR-SEN...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0361par0028	What 30 years? When were the unions formed?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0360par0029	...and 30,000 members went to ACTIF YOU.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0361par0030	When was the union formed?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0360par0031	You're completely shut down, they're all inside now.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0362par0032	Have you noticed that PKK is a terrorist organization?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0360par0033	So it's obvious what happened. In his union, where he was president, 30,000 people came out.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0362par0034	Look at you, look at you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0360par0035	Second, look, it's history as the president-in-chief who lost the rights of public workers. It's all public knowledge for the time being.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0363par0036	Now he's denied you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0360par0037	Third...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0364par0038	Look at you, look at you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0365par0039	He's committed, he's committed.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0360par0040	Look, don't say anything that puts his back to terrorism. Today, the chief of El Nusra, who is in strategic partnership with ISIS, is now known to all.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0366par0041	Not at all.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0360par0042	Dear friends, when you say something, you have to listen to yourself. In this country, it is no one's place to call the HDPs a terrorist. Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) have always defended peace in this country, and they have said peace to the end, but we will continue to show honorable resistance to your fascism. Never show the example of France again. There's no government in France that's taken their own deputy hostage, but you took him hostage. Look, it's obvious you're taking hostages.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0367par0044	Who's supporting the terrorist?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0360par0045	We know very well how ISIS is supported by whom.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0367par0046	Don't beat around the bush. Are there terrorists in France?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0360par0047	Look, in this country, you shed blood, burned cities, and burned people alive in basements. Those who do not suffer the success of HDP (HDP) on June 7th, those who cannot digest the outcome of democracy are only trying to create war in this country.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0368par0048	Can you condemn the PKK?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0360par0049	It won't save them, it won't save you, and we will continue to defend peace in this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0369par0052	With a gun or with a gun? Is peace a weapon?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0370par0053	Mr. President, there's a direct taunt, there's slander, there's more to it than teasing... explaining...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0371par0054	Here you go, Mr. Gündüz. Let's keep it that way tonight, it's yours. Two minutes, I promise you. We say we don't want to be bullied again, but you are.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0372par0058	Take an hour off from lunch, then, Mr. President, if we're going to continue like this.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0373par0060	Dear President, dear friends, presidents of the union or political party, vice presidents, people at the top are responsible. If the wrong people have been there as voters or as members...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0374par0061	30 grand?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0373par0062	...and disqualifying it is related to the position of that institution.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0375par0064	Ten years later?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0376par0065	Tell me your date, your date.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0377par0066	30,000 people?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0375par0067	Yeah, over 30,000...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0378par0068	In 2013, this reaction was shown after the error of ▪ had been revealed. Union law was passed in 2001...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0375par0069	They're separated, they're separated, not because you're reacting.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0378par0070	...and those of you who left MEMUR-SEN are not even 30 percent of the members you call 30,000 members.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0379par0071	30,000...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0375par0072	How many members do you have? How many members do you have?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0378par0073	If you look at the base and ceiling relationship, we expect you to show your members the same reaction as the ceiling.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0375par0074	You can't save yourself, you can't save yourself.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0378par0075	How much did the officer's salary cost in 2002, and how much did it cost today?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0375par0076	The workers know, the workers know, the public knows about you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0378par0077	There's no increase below 400 percent. The base is also important for pension and pension increase, which has come to this point because of this importance.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0375par0078	You're the only union president who's mathematically damaged his members.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0378par0079	So, I'd like to emphasize, dear friends, that we're not from Turkey, there are 10 percent dams. Let's be Turkish. When we're burning up...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0375par0080	Well, well, well!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0378par0081	...after 13 per cent of the vote, after the opportunity to become Turkish...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0375par0082	That's what you're saying right now because you can't swallow that result.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0378par0083	I'm telling you that we can give you a government of international evil centers. You should've known about the prisons your back would hold when you got spoiled and killed the police in the back of your neck and put your back to the PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0380par0084	First, you answer for those photos of you kneeling to the congregation, those photos! You answer for the photos of you kneeling to the congregation.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0378par0085	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0381par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0382par0088	I promise I won't pick on you either. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0381par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, once our friend says 30,000, you take it to 30 percent. You're in such a state of delusion that you're not aware of the criticism you've received. And let me tell you, how many members did you throw out before December 17th or 25th? How many members have you thrown out?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0383par0094	How many?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0381par0095	Secondly, they left their partnership with you, after your sari partnership for many years, and you don't have the courage to throw anyone away. We know exactly what kind of unionist you are, and we know very well that you are a committed unionist. One other thing...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0383par0097	We know how you're a politician, how you can't even talk to the PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0381par0098	Relax.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0383par0099	Raise a thousandth of this voice to the PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0381par0100	Mr. President, will you shut him up?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0384par0101	We know how you shared with ISIS.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0385par0102	As a politician, we know how you kneel to the congregation.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0386par0103	Congressmans, please... You go ahead, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0387par0105	Another issue: Look, I'm telling you, you've made 80 million people in Turkey vomit blood, along with the structure you described as a terrorist organization. There was nothing wrong with you and them puking blood into the public, when you got the needle slightly stuck in you and your relationship of interest got damaged, then your relationship broke. There's no such thing. You guys have been throwing up blood on this circle for years, becoming victims.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0388par0106	Are you the judge?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0387par0107	You saw a small portion of the damage, and you got up, and then you acted on rematches only over your direction, and it's not called law. If they're victims, if they're not being judged fairly -- look, we're being honest and bold -- we don't want to cause a victim who's willing to cover up their crimes, not without a fair trial. In their name, we have the confidence to bring up the problems of the people who have suffered from all the blows you've struck them under the roof of the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0389par0110	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0390par0111	I'll cut to the chase, one sentence, put it in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0389par0112	Mr. Gündüz, please...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0390par0113	We certainly didn't invite a structure into our system, we stood in the way of everything that did wrong; we had to be primitive.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0391par0114	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0389par0115	Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0391par0116	The orator who was just speaking to us has given a controversial speech about both our group and our power in the process. In this sense, there is an obligation to demand a word of bullying according to Mr. President 69.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0389par0117	Here you go. I'll give you two minutes without picking on you. We thought we'd finish this, but...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0392par0120	Mr. President, there's open teasing, not grace.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0389par0121	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0393par0124	Mr. President, we'd like to make it very clear that, first of all, we've refused the conversation just now. I mean, for 14 years, in the time of our power, I want to make it very clear that we are not involved in anything, in the process, in any way, that would oppress our citizens, in any way, in any way, in the course of our power. It was a heavy, controversial conversation, a conversation that was disconnected from the total truth, which is not acceptable in that sense. For 14 years, our country has been moving from point to point, from point to point...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0394par0125	Yeah, it's obvious, it's obvious.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0393par0126	...in education, in justice, in security, in many areas, we've obviously set out to serve as servants of our nation.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0395par0127	On the way to Pennsylvania...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0393par0128	Turkey's transformation and transformation are obvious at this point, and while we're doing these services, with no distinction between any of our 79 million citizens...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0395par0129	On the Pennsylvania roads, the corrosive...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0393par0130	... every inch of the 780,000 square kilometers of country's land, Kurdish, Turkish, Lazkekı, Çerbaza, and together as a country that has made the fate of this country a common destiny and... never, ever, the power of our elected, voting nation, not the power of 79 million, and since we came to power, it is clear where we took steps to expand freedom and rights, where Turkey came from.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0396par0131	What freedom?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0397par0132	Free the State of Emergency?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0398par0133	We came here from Pennsylvania.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0399par0134	As for the State of Emergency, we especially want to point out that the coup attempt on December 17th and 25th is the coup attempt of the judiciary and the Police on these platforms...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0398par0135	You were his partner.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0399par0136	...when we speak aloud in this Parliament...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0398par0137	When?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0399par0138	...how those who didn't believe in it that day, on the night of July 15th, in a dark way, in secret, in secret, in secret, in secret, in secret, in secret, in secret, in secret, in secret, after the very dangerous terrorist organization, without telling them about the fight after July 15th.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0400par0139	Millions of books have been written, haven't you read them? Why did Ahmet Şık go to prison?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0399par0140	...without opening any area of the fight with the PKK, however, with the DHKP-C... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that there should be no other voice in this Parliament with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (HDP) terrorist organization. This 79 million fate, unity and unity depend on it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0401par0145	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0402par0146	Look, after what you've told me, you won't be able to look him in the face, he won't take you with him again.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0403par0147	Declare yourself, state yourself, so explain your political foot.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0404par0148	Mr. President, I'm just saying for the record. We've never even prayed in the same mosque as them, we've always been victims of the Laughing Congregation, but may God not put us in different disguises for the power of a building. [[Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) rankings (HDP)]] 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0405par0187	Now, it's up to the government. On behalf of the government, the first statement is from Deputy Prime Minister Veysi Kayrak. Here you go, Mr. Source.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0406par0191	Mr. President, I've been promised the very valuable members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey, the General Directorate of Foundations, the President of Afet and Emergency Management, Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency budgets under the budget of 2017. As I begin my speech, I salute your grand delegation. I also ask my Lord to have mercy on our soldier, who is now a martyr in El Bab. And I pray for immediate healing for the wounded. Dear President, I was actually going to start by talking about the budget of the Human Rights and Equality Foundation in 2017. But before we started this talk, almost all of our fellow lawmakers from opposition parties explained and explained the lack of human rights in the field of the AK PARTY and the AK PARTY governments. Of course, he had rightful criticisms in him, and these are valuable to us, but I just want to show you that the AK PARTI has given so much space in the human rights program in the party's organization, and I want to do my duty to enlighten you by saying they've done it in the field of human rights. It has been said that the Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey is not independent. The Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey is independent, has administrative and financial autonomy and has a public legal identity. No body, authority, authority or person in the field of duty can give orders or instructions or advice or advice to the Institution. The Human Rights and Equality Committee is based on pluralism by the law imposed by the High Assembly this period. Members of the board will be elected from among those who work in the field of human rights, NGOs, trade unions, social and professional organisations, academics, lawyers, visual and written media members and field experts who apply for membership. The declaration on the application for membership has been announced on May 2, 2016 in the Official Gazette, and seven of the members of the Council of Human Rights and Equality will be elected from among these candidates, and one of the members will be elected from among the two candidates reported by the NGO. Only Mr. President himself will determine three members here. The law gives the President this opportunity, and the government is actually tasked with choosing one of those inventors. While our Human Rights and Equality Institution is in this structure, we need to look at other institutions that the EC PARTY has brought to this country in the field of human rights. Recently, our Supreme Assembly has elected Public Chief of Staff. Look, our Public Chief of Staff, Turkey has been elected by the Grand National Assembly and has an independent structure. In France, it is appointed by the President, and the head of state and members are elected by the head of the public. He appoints board members and chairman of the board in England. In the Netherlands, the Minister of Justice and Security's proposal and with the Royal approval of the Crown gains life. Of course, I need to make a correction, and I said France as an ombudsman, but other countries contain human rights boards. In Germany, two members of the Federal Assembly have no right to vote -- they are elected by the Ministry of Justice, Foreign Affairs, Development, Labour and Social Security, which finances the institution of other members. In Sweden, it is assembled under the title "Ombudsman of Equality" and appointed by the government. Its members are appointed by the ombudsman. Once our Human Rights and Equality Foundation becomes our board, we'll all see what a pluralist structure the board is, and it's completely elected in the form of candidacy. In addition, in the field of the protection and development of human rights by our governments and by our Parliament, the work has been carried out together: Once on the road to the AK PARTY, he said: zero tolerance for torture. The allegations of torture have been made today, especially in prison, torture and abuse. Dear friends, speaking on behalf of our government's general budget, our Minister of Justice has expressed with open heart: "Tell us where, tell us where, tell us when, and let us do so."
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0407par0200	We did.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0406par0201	Look, despite Turkey's extraordinary state regime, the United Nations has opened itself to both the European Union's torture and evil prevention commission, and after July 15th, these delegations visited our country and visited prisons during these visits. I assume the painting our friends were expecting didn't show up, which they didn't issue a report on. I think they were waiting for a tortured sight, waiting for a tortured human image. THIS is one of the most important areas that the EC PARTY is ambitious in, and we will never tolerate torture. Why? Every being is precious, and man is the most precious of all beings. He may be guilty, he may be a terrorist, he may be something else, but human dignity is above all else. During this period, the area of the military judiciary has been narrowed down by amendments to the Constitution in 2010. In 2004, the adoption of international agreements on fundamental rights over civil law entered our Constitution, along with the Republican People's Party Group. The right to information has passed through this period. The expansion of the opportunity to use the meeting and the right to perform has now taken place. In this period, the adoption of property and expansion of the freedom zones of minority parish foundations -- which I will address in the field of foundations -- has been established during the EC PARTY period. The right to an individual application to the Constitutional Court... Here, we have a valued MP among us, Mr. Balbay, who has been released from prison with the opportunity of this individual application, and our other friends. The judicial control restrictions have been lifted. Public auditing -- I just mentioned -- has been implemented this semester. The Undersecretary of Public Order and Security has been established. Our penal code on excessive use of force has been regulated and the punishment has been increased. Custody conditions have been improved. Of course, after the July 15 coup, the detention period of those detained for that reason has extended, but there has been no negative change in the terms of detention. Our prisons, which do not meet the standards of the United Nations and the Council of Europe, are closed. Think of the famous Diyarbakır Prison, or the county prisons of 8 to 10 people, 15 people that we can't provide for any human needs; none of them exist anymore. In prisons, it is clear that prisoners and prisoners can meet their relatives in their native language, which has been regarded as an important reform on the date of our meeting. The obstacles to our citizens giving their children their own names have been eliminated by the AK PARTI governments and Parliament. Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Association is founded. Human Rights Association was founded in 2012, Human Rights and Equality Institution in 2016. For the first time this semester, the Committee for Protection of Personal Data has been brought to life, and has been elected five members of our Parliament. Again, the Watch Commission has been established. A legal arrangement has been made to ensure that the law shall be supervised and supervised by the law enforcement office in terms of supervision and control of its work and operations, disproportionate power and rights violations. Union freedom has been expanded. The European Court of Human Rights of Europe has established a commission of compensation in our internal law to resolve the incursion applications in front of the long trial, and the Human Rights Restitution Commission has soon been able to address the victims of our citizens in a much shorter time than the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights for Human Rights in order to address the issues of human rights one by one in a specific calendar has prepared the Action Plan for Avoiding Human Rights violations, and the action plan has been implemented after the Council of Ministers' decision. Also, very valuable MPs, for those who are interested, for the first time in Turkey, the Ministry of Justice began systematically publishing the European Court of Human Rights decisions; both lawyers, lawyers, and every individual will benefit from it. In addition to the official language of Turkish, it is a decision made by this great Assembly that allows our citizens to be broadcast in different languages and dialects, which are traditionally used in their daily lives. A change in understanding of the full use of public services has been made by administrative agencies, such as Kurdish interpreter employment. It caused a lot of controversy when we took it out. The opportunity has been given to defend itself in the language that everyone can best express themselves. In the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in public, in schools, in universities, the headscarf is actually free; of course, it is an alliance of our Parliament. It has been made possible for our political parties to address them in different languages and dialects used by our citizens in their election work. The bans on the use of forbidden letters have been lifted, as well as obstacles in Kurdish correspondence and the use of Kurdish names have been removed. The settlements have been cleared to be given their former names again. In this framework, many of the settlements have been changed names. Through public television TRT, a Kurdish news site was established -- called TRT Şesh -- between the people. In 2010, the amendment to the 10th Amendment of our Constitution was imposed on the Constitution, where positive discrimination against women and martyrs, veteran families, will not be considered incompatible with equality. And the state security courts, which we all complain about for a period of time, have been dismissed this semester. Dear friends, of course, it's impossible to say that we've achieved perfection, but they were all done with great debates at the time that each of them was made, and they've now been implemented, accepted by the vast majority of our society. In the 23rd term, I remember how difficult we were when the 301st Amendment of the Turkish Penal Code was changed, how much arguments there were; the proposal, the signature was mine. All this is accomplished. Praise be to God. From now on, wherever there is a defect in the human rights field, wherever there is a flaw, it is the duty of the EC PARTY to carry out the work he wrote in his program when he was set up, it is our commitment to our nation, and we will fulfill them, by the will of God, and together. Our esteemed Congresswoman Senal has expressed that due to the extraordinary condition of the International Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights of the United Nations, we have been derogating certain substances and telling the truth. But let me put it this way: the European Convention on Human Rights requires the 15th article of the European Convention on Human Rights, which prohibits the 4th article of the International Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights, which allows us to reduce our obligations due to the State of Emergency. We can suspend all other issues for a period of time, but three is a matter that can never be suspended: 1) Torture and abuse; there's no need to say anything else. 2) Do not kill. 3) Anthrax, slavery. Even if we suspend the entire contract, the contract itself has already ruled that the contract itself cannot be suspended. So the issue of human rights is that we stand on, we form a human rights unit in our party, we set up a commission in our parliament, and we are very ambitious in this area, but I repeat: everything is not perfect, we will complete what we lack. Finally, on the matter of human rights, I would like to say that this Parliament, this Parliament, the representatives of this nation, the place of the nation's will, was bombed by our own fighter planes on July 15th. Our members of the group told us -- I was in Istanbul that night, so I wasn't in Ankara, I couldn't -- they made the right statements about what difficult conditions they wanted to get here. Tanks have entered our throat bridge, cannons have entered our General Staff. We've all been through this, we've all lived together, we've lived on the air. With all politics, political institutions, our nation and our president's determination, courage, the coolness and integrity of our Prime Minister, praise be to God, we have survived this. But let's face it, we can't make up for such a big event without the possibility of a quick and effective fight given to us by the state of emergency. We've always said that in extraordinary circumstances, our goal is never to declare a state of emergency to the nation; we've declared the state of emergency to the state, to the institutions of the state, and let the state never deviate from being a democratic state, that's the whole point. In Turkey, freedom of travel, freedom of trade, freedom of press, freedom of assembly and demonstrations, freedom of politics, whatever you may think of, these freedoms are used to the end, God be praised. But long imprisonment... of course, we need to fix it as a lengthy detention period, not long imprisonment. There are about 40,000 prisoners. Is it possible that during the four-day arrest period -- our fellow law enforcement officers -- this matter is being vetted, investigated, connected to an indictment? So, of course, there will be some applications. The state of emergency... has brought joy to an extraordinary situation... and, of course, some extraordinary measures will be taken. I'd also like to point out, after I've said that in the human rights field, that it's always been said, the Plan Budget Commission said, why didn't our Human Rights Agency spend its budget? Dear friends, there's only one reason why our Human Rights Agency hasn't spent the budget given to it, is that it's moving from a rented building to a public building. Our Human Rights and Equality Institution continues to receive complaints, even though there are no boards yet, the Vice President's job, the duty of the bureaucracy continues, and the relevant institutions through the Minister are being asked about violations in the field of human rights and the answers are being delivered to the concerned. Highly valued lawmakers, hopefully, will continue to perform the mission of the national human rights institution after the formation of our Human Rights and Equality Institution in the coming process, the task of the national prevention mechanism against torture and abuse, the fight against discrimination and equality institution. 150 staffed for our institution, the joint Human Rights Agency's staff doubled, and the number of employees of the institution has been strengthened. Therefore, we never need to paint a gloomy picture in this regard. Turkey has made major advances in human rights for 14 years and will continue to develop. Another one of our subsidiaries is the Foundation General Directorate. Of course, it's possible to add our Foundation General Directorate's work to four main topics: first, charity work, then good deeds, foundation work, then the current flow of the Foundation General Directorate, and then the audit of the work and operations of all the foundations. It's an institutionalized act of charity from past to present, the foundation. The concepts of goodness and charity have been moved to this day as a institutionalized structure, not as a personal virtue. Our foundation, founded hundreds of years ago and without a manager, is operating through the Foundation General Directorate of the Foundations, carrying out its objectives. Today, wheresoever there is need, there is our trust. In our country, there are 52,265 exclusions, 4,976 new and 167 parishes. The work and operations of these foundations, the control of these foundations, the maintenance, repair and survival of the cultural assets of economies, and the assessment of the foundation's foundations in the highest income-resulting way to achieve its foundations, are successfully carried out by our General Directorate of Foundations, which is a special budgetary institution. Between 2003-2016, projects and repairs of nearly 4,750 foundations were completed during the AK PARTY administrations, without division of province and district. We all come from various parts of Turkey, and we all know that. Medrese of Erzurum Double Minarese is our culture. The mosque of Tunceli Pertek Hakman, Hatay Habib-i Neccar Mosque, İstanbul Eminönu Egyptian Market, which is now being restored for the first time in three hundred and seventy-three years, the new mosque of Istanbul, which was taken to a comprehensive restoration, is a mosque that reopened a meeting a hundred and four years later, and for the first time in a hundred and four years, the Muslim Monastery Haydar Kadi Mosque rose again. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Gradiska Dervis Hanım Medresesi, the Kosovo Cakova Eunuch Süleyman Agha Library... is one of the largest synagogues in Europe, the Edirne Grand Synagogue of our minority foundations. Gaziantep Havra, Edirnekapı Ayazkaya Church and Diyarbakır Sur Armenian Church, some of which were finished and opened to worship as the synagogue in Edirne. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, our foundation also has charity. Our General Directorate of Foundations delivers dry food packets of 15 pencils each month to 20,315 needy people in 81 counties. Our General Directorate of the Foundations grants scholarships to middle education and higher education students, and one issue that the public does not know very well is that Turkey is offering $584 a monthly charity for all those with more than 40 per cent barriers, no social security, and no means to provide for themselves and their orphaned children. I don't think this matter is well known to our public in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0408par0247	How many?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0406par0248	The number we're reaching now is about 3,800, so I'm saying very little. So there will be no social security, no more than 40 per cent barriers, no assets. Very dear friends, of course, there are many other services that our foundation has done, that we have to tell you about, that there are artifacts. He has a lot of extensive work, not only on our immovable cultural assets, but also on the historical value of other cultural assets, and on the issues that will shed light on our culture, our history. Among these, I must say, all documents such as foundation, virtue, wisdom, decree, and the creation of the archive of our foundation civilization have been re-scanned, archived, and presented to the services of users. From the Foundation Museum, from the Carpet Museum, all of this -- indeed, my time is extremely limited, and we have two more institutions, but I can't help but say that our foundations will continue to possess all these artifacts, which are the relics of the glorious history of our profession, in this period, inside and abroad, because we also have important foundations in Balkan geography. I'd like to move on to the subject of the AFAD presidency, as highly valued lawmakers have told me some of the projects of the General Directorate of the Foundations. In fact, it's possible to sum up our AFAD presidency as a matter of preparation for disasters, post disaster rescue efforts, and refugees in Turkey after 2011. Dear MPs, Turkey's Disaster Response Plan in preparation for disasters; this plan is prepared, its regulations are prepared and published by the Council of Ministers' decision. In all Turkey, all cities are prepared for disaster intervention. Also under preparation and intervention, some projects, disaster management and decision-making support system, disaster temporary city management system, electronic aid distribution system, the spatial information system, the event command system, have also been prepared to co-ordinate the post-fact recovery stages. We've started creating an infrastructure that will provide uninterrupted and secure communications, cable, GSM and all kinds of communication, sound and data communications. We also have a very important study in this area, such as the AFAD Data Centre, Turkey's Disaster and Emergency Management Organization Center, which will be used at the time of the disaster. In the context of preparation and intervention, I must also state that AFAD is also prepared for threats and dangers that are shortened to chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear, as a result of reports from institutions that are our source, the Chief of Staff, or other relevant institutions. A total of 978 disasters and emergencies occurred in Turkey in 2016, including floods, storm, wounded evacuations, drowning, loss. 4,314 personnel involved, 3,832 of our people were saved alive from these disasters, and unfortunately 620 of our citizens were delivered to their families by reaching their funerals. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One ten minutes, Mr. Secretary, if I may.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0409par0256	Why don't you complete it?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0406par0257	Dear friends, now, I'm going to say this about this disaster, and I'm going to end it, and we've heard rightful criticism. Turkey is going to search and rescue after the disasters, and we are very successful and very less successful, and for the first time in Turkey without this discussion, we are working on a system that can be taken before disaster happens. In the framework we've been working for several months, we've taken what measures with our Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs, our State Water Affairs General Directorate, MTA, Highway Roads, without disasters; we've created the concrete result with a symposium with our Minister for Forestry and Water Affairs against the danger of floods and floods and landslides. From now on, our AFAD organization will determine places that would pose risks with relevant confederates, implement both the alarm systems of these locations, and if they can be eliminated from the risk before disaster happens, they will act on all of them. The very valuable MPs, of course, are related to refugees who have taken refuge in our country -- I said -- since 2011. We've heard a lot of criticism. First, we need to show that who sent these people from Syria? Who dropped bombs on these people, in their homes, in their cities, in their villages? There was a human drama, and Turkey saw it as a matter of humanity and carried out an open door policy. A door so open that we've never opened our doors without looking at anyone's race, language, religion, genus, Arab, Kurd, Turkmen, Ezidi, all of them. Two million, 753,000 in our Syrian lands. Yes, we have about 10 percent of this in our camps, but no one in the world can ever say that from the Syrians who live outside the camp, these are being treated with a humiliating treatment of human dignity. Do you ever remember the view of the Syrian in our streets, under the bridges, in the parks, or looking for bread from the garbage? Our nation has taken possession of these people with the knowledge of the Ensar. We've done nearly 21 million polyclinical examinations for refugees living outside our camps, over 900,000 surgical procedures, more than 180,000 Syrian children have opened their eyes to life on our land, over 900,000 children under training umbrellas this year. It's not us who should be thinking about it, it's the people who consider themselves representatives of the civilized world. We've seen the news recently, and we've seen reports of a new wall of shame between 160 refugees and them, in order to avoid ruining their own tastes in Germany, in order to make sure that a more wealthy people live in their neighborhood, that we see razored fences in various countries of Europe, that we see refugee women being thrown coins and pushed into push-ups, and the world should take two hands and think about it. Since World War II, there's been the greatest relocation in the world. 60 million people are far from home, from home, from home, from home. Since World War II, the largest refugee operation has been happening in the last four or five years. But I'd like to say that I don't like a lot of slogans, but in a nutshell, these people run from the war, the refugees run from death, they run from hunger, and the rich countries run from refugees. There are only 9,000 refugees in England, whose income is $45,000 per country, and more than 1 million refugees in Lebanon are from countries with the least income in the world. While New Zealand, with the largest geography in the world, has hundreds of refugees, there are 600,000 refugees in Jordan, and it is a shame to refer to 300 refugees in the modern world, the civilized world. In terms of refugees, we never negotiate with refugees, nor did we. You know, on March 18th, an agreement was reached with the European Union by our Prime Minister, Mr. Davutoglu. We were going to send one legal refugee to the unauthorized Greek islands against every 1 refugees crossing through Turkey to the West. We were going to take him back to Turkey. This plan still works, but this was three stages, as I said: the re-enactment agreement was visa-free travel for our citizens and negotiations with the European Union. They opened a chapter, as you know, but despite their promise, they blocked off the visa-free Europe, the free movement of our citizens in Europe. And, of course, there was a three-billion-dollar financial aid promise. There are no pauses and interruptions in 3 billion in financial aid. We have financial friends, financial representatives, lawmakers who know about this. This 3 billion-dollar aid has been determined in what sectors: strengthening the infrastructure of our education, health certificates and strengthening the institutional structures of our administrations, such as the Immigration Administration. If you'd asked 15 days ago, we haven't received a significant amount of money yet. I would have said that 90m euros have been released to our Ministry of National Education, 120m euros to our Ministry of Health, 12m euros to our Migration Administration and the latest through the World Food Programme, 262m euros to spend in the daily lives of refugees outside the camp. The contracts of other projects are currently under way, the process of project detection, but the European Union's biggest challenge on this issue is that the European Union wants to spend its money through its own NGOs. Our statement is that Turkey is not a tent state, but Turkey is a powerful state. Turkey is a state of its own institutions, and Turkey can afford to spend it. If you want to make some changes in our legislation, we're willing to negotiate. So, very valuable MPs, I'm afraid I've heard that saying, never refugees are a bargaining factor for us. How's that for a bargain? 1,200,000 women, I said, more than 900,000 children in the age of education, how can we negotiate them? This shames us from our humanity, and I assure you with all my strength that while we are fighting the DEASI, while we are fighting the most effective battle with DEASH in the world -- I'm talking about Operation Storm Shield -- we're being held by ISIS people in the camps, they're being taught. That would be a big slander, a big slander. The Republic of Turkey shows the only concrete challenge to the DEAS. Operation Firat Shield is over a hundred days old, as you know. With the explosion of a child in Gaziantep, wearing a live bomb vest before the Festival of Sacrifice, and unfortunately 56 people died, the operation, which we started behind him, was carried out by the Free Syrian Army with the support of the Turkish Armed Forces. Very valuable MPs, we have no eyes on anyone's land. We've got 786 thousand square kilometers of land enough for us. We want to live in our 786km of prosperous land, we want to live in a democratic country, we want to live in a country where human rights and freedoms are used to the end, but we need to accept that it was built from the land of Syria, which is the center of terrorism exports to Turkey, without ever being considered an invasion or an asylum.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0410par0268	Mr. Secretary, every conversation you have is causing our other Deputy Prime Minister to cut back time from his speech.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0406par0269	I'm finishing, sir. As a result of the 100-day operations, we are proud to say that there has been no unauthorized passage through Syria and no terrorist crossings. Operation Firat Shield must be on a very accurate plane. Of course, there's also TİKA among my organizations. In fact, to explain what TİKA (TİKA) is doing, I want to show you: these are the headlines of projects conducted by TİKA (TİKA) and Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency in 150 countries around the world in 2015. This is what they did in 2016, and this is what's still going on. Now, think about it, we're discussing the 2015 final account and the 2017 budget. I just think if I tried to read these, I'd have to talk for maybe 40 hours, not 40 minutes. Therefore, the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency is one of our country's hundred-flow organizations. He's flying our flag with honor all over the world. When we go to Uganda, I want you to see the love of the local people in Uganda, a country with our President -- the development program of TAKA. Wherever there is a need, wherever there is a need, wherever there is a need, Turkey will continue to be there with the AFAD, with the TICA, with the Turkish Redbear. I've overstepped my time, asking our esteemed Deputy Prime Minister for forgiveness, but it's really extensive. Hopefully, I'd like to answer these on a different basis, as well as the criticism, as well as the questions. I salute your entire delegation, our entire coven, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0411par0275	Thank you, Mr. Source.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0412par0276	Mr. President, I'd like a minute's promise in accordance with the Civil Code 60.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0411par0277	Wait a second... It's been forty-three minutes, Mr. Source -- let's make a note of that -- that leaves us with 37 minutes, Mr. Tuğrul Türkeshin. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0413par0280	I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0411par0281	Here, take your seat... Did you get into the system?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0413par0283	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0411par0284	Wait a minute, I promise you 60. Mr. Turkesh, wait a minute... Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0414par0289	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you mentioned minority foundations. Thank you for your services, very important, but the biggest problem of our minority foundation -- you know very well -- has been that minority foundations haven't been able to choose in six years. 167 expects to renew their foundation administration, but for six years, election regulations have been suspended and regulations have not been renewed. We've passed on our suggestions over and over to Mr. General Director Adnan Bey. Adnan Bey's statement is: "We are waiting for a sign of political will. " But why doesn't that sign come? We must quickly renew these choices. Our foundations don't work. Many of our foundations have come to the trustee stage due to lack of executives. We ask you to immediately declare this foundation election regulation and then take more macro steps. You know, in terms of the status of the foundations, we have problems in terms of the status of the patriarchate, and we'd like to ask you a quick step.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0411par0291	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0415par0292	I hope the elections are near. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0416par0329	Now, on behalf of the government, the Deputy Prime Minister Tuğrul Türkesh. Here you go, Mr. Turkesh. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The time you have left is thirty-seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0417par0333	Mr. President, I'd like to introduce you to my esteemed MPs, my Ministry and its affiliates, on the 2017 Budget Bill. I salute you all. As you all know, budget talks are both the planning of the next year and the accounting of a past year. I'd like to give you last year's information as I talk to my Ministry about its targets for next year. By the way, of course, I wish God's mercy to the heroic Turkish Armed Forces who were killed today in El Bab. By the way, the first edition of the original, the first edition of the Nutuk (the first edition of the Ottoman language, or ancient Turkish), was written as a prestigious book by the Institute for Ataturk Culture, Language and History; we present one to all group presidents.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0418par0337	Minister, one for all members.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0417par0338	Of course, I hope you know what's in the Latin alphabet and you do. I mean, there's probably Turkish for "Nutuk" today...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0419par0339	I do.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0417par0340	...and you've read it, but as a beautiful memory...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0419par0341	He's always here and Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0417par0342	Okay, that's great.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0419par0343	It's not here, it's ours, it's here.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0417par0344	It's supposed to be.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0420par0345	It's not enough there, it's gonna be here.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0417par0346	Now, very valuable MPs, as well as the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History under my Ministry, I also have other topics that, thanks to the fact that there are foreign Turks, a few of our friends have been referring to in between, a little bit of my posture, a little bit of physical production. I'd like to inform the House all over it if it's convenient. In my ministry, the Republic has the preparation and memorial programme for its 100th year, the Alliance of Civilities; the issue of Cyprus is within my Ministry of the Deputy Prime Minister, its economic programmes, its assistance; its investments; other than that, the issues in the budget you know. Of course, not to mention, I've been listening to the precious deputies who've been talking about these things all morning, and I think we should go from a general horizon tour to here. ▪ Our nation is a deep record of the past. This idea, of course, brings us back from the six hundred-year-old Ottoman Turk, the Seljukian Turks, and the Turkish states that were equal to each and every one of these times before that, said the late Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Now, I felt the need to remind our precious deputies who spoke about the Ataturk Language and History Foundation. Dear lawmakers, Turks are a nation that has existed throughout written history, so there is a history of 2,500 years under record, under every period of this, under different names that have been Turkish states; we have not defined ourselves as Turkish, but often the structures outside of us describe us as Turkish, but throughout history, we exist. The reason we say this is to understand the importance of the state of the Republic of Turkey today and to stress it. There are over 200 states, small and large, over 200. They became a great empire, a great state, and have lived over a hundred years. The critical threshold is 100 to 120 years in Turkish states. After that, they faced some misfortunes in the context of the conjunctives of that day. Turkish, our beautiful Turkish, a couple of our deputies have mentioned it, but it's the 5th language family in the world today; it's the first 10th, as one member of parliament said, but it's the 5th. So you have the right to communicate with over 300 million people across the world today, if you know Turkish correctly and beautifully. I think it's important to remind you that this language is such a precious language. And the reason I'm referring to the 200 states that have just been established in history is because today, when the 100th year of the republic's founding is seven years, why is it important for us to celebrate and remember 100th years, why do we care about the work and value it, to mention it? As part of my ministry's 100th year events, the most important item is the planning and coordination of events related to the 100th year of our republic. Our goal is to rethink, understand, and remember the events and factors of the republic's founding process. In doing so, we would like to first open new sources of our history to scientific research and encourage these studies. On the other hand, we're working to stimulate the consciousness of history, start local history studies, which are very late for our country, to allow local history museums to be implemented, to be recorded in the definition of our non-intangible cultural assets. So that we can create the history memory of each city, but on the other hand, we will try to instill a sense of history in the people who live in it. The Republic of Turkey, which we long to have forever, will complete a century in 2023. With that consciousness, we would like to take our citizens to our 100th year celebrations in a sense of history, to present a new century perspective to future generations. For this, we are at a more open time in terms of mental perception and a more convenient time to refresh our memories. So far, we've read in the history books of the republic's founding processes, the destruction of the Ottoman Empire by global political brokers, the occupations and the binding of the treaty. These readings were only within the scope of what was offered to us, but the communication and technology of today's world provides us with more information. Again, in today's world, what happened in Turkey offers us new insights to understand, to interpret events. Yes, because my deadline is limited, I'd like to say a lot more about it, but let me simply point out that in this new era... there was recently a time when our Turkish politics had been infertile debates -- we saw debates about the Tenth Year March. Dear MPs, the Tenth Year March is an extremely precious anthem, but it is called the Tenth Year March. When we reach the 100th year of the Republic, those who wish to sing this anthem will gladly sing it, even when we are in the midst of the environments where we are...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0421par0357	But the chief of il national education doesn't think like you do, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0417par0358	But what I'm trying to say is that we're not looking for an anthem in the 100th year of the Republic. The 21st century is a civilian century, and it's probably an enthusiastic song of the 100th anniversary of the republic, which will be held with contests that will be announced over time...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0422par0359	Mr. Secretary, you're lifting the anthems, why would you put a march on them? You're already lifting the starters.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0417par0360	...but I'm already giving you the good news of the 100th year that hopefully there won't be a anthem, they'll have songs. Now, in terms of effective use of time, the other issue is the Alliance of Civilities, which is what we call it. I know this doesn't occupy the agenda of our domestic policy very much, but I'd like to inform you that it's better to be known. I ask you not to confuse this with the matter of interfaith tolerance, because the interfaith tolerance that we've dealt with so far was a study that was generally limited to what we Muslims did or a group trying to do in the name of Muslims and inviting non-Muslims to our honor. Of course, it is no sin for us to have people of other faiths join our honors, our saints, our important days, but when we invite the priest and the rabbi who are not fasting to our honors, and in exchange for that in their holy days, as an extension of their interfaith tolerance initiative, we would expect the same gestures to be made against us Muslims, even if they were not the same, but we have never seen them before. It's another thing we don't see, but this Alliance of Civilities, from time to time, according to every political party, is a subject that everyone interprets differently from here on out. So I'm going to make this very brief. The Alliance of Civilisations was launched in 2005 by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Zapatero, who served as Prime Minister at the time, at the proposal of Spanish Prime Minister Zapatero. The initiative adopted by the United Nations aims to eliminate negatives, such as doubt, fear, polarization, between Muslim and Western communities, and prevent extreme abuse. The Alliance of Civilizations opposed radicalization through mutual respect between cultures. The initiative is based on the issue that all societies depend on each other in development, security, environment and prosperity, and is primarily aimed at creating a joint political will for the fight against prejudice, misunderstanding and polarisation. The initiative, which has been increasingly visible since its start, has now become a leading project in the context of cultural and inter-religious dialogue. In the context of the Alliance of Civilities today, the Friends Group, formed under the United Nations, has a number of members of the United Nations. This global interest is also a sign of the need for the Alliance of Civilisation initiative. The Forum of the Alliance of Civilisations, which began in Madrid in 2008, was held in Istanbul in 2009, followed by Rio, Doha, Vienna, Bali forums. In 2016, we joined a delegation of our forum presidents, ministers, and several deputies, held in Baku, the capital of our sister country, Azerbaijan. The 7th Global Forum has been a valuable opportunity to highlight the importance of South Caucasus and Central Asia. It was announced in early 2013, that the National Plan 2 was announced, including the steps taken by our country as part of the Alliance of Civilities. We're still working on this. The goal is to establish peace as a partnership in a system of mutual respect and equality around the world. Turkey, a crossroads between the East and the West, is doing its part as a meeting point for civilizations. Representatives of the 10 ministries by the Turkish Co-ordination Council of the Alliance of Civilisations, the Alliance of Civilisations has formed the Turkey Co-ordination Council, meeting at different times to determine and assess the work that is thought to be done throughout the country. From the beginning of civilisations, a documentary on the 12,000-year history of civilizations and the rich savings and contributions of our country, with over 20 civilisations, has been broadcast on TRT screens over the past five years and has been broadcast on TRT channels throughout 2016. The international version of the documentary, which consists of seven episodes per hour, was released on 42 world television so far, and in 2016 many countries, including the United States, Germany and Kazakhstan, continued broadcasting on television channels. In 2016, a new civilization documentary series on the Silk Road Civilties of Rome from China, co-ordinated with the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, was held as a joint production of Turkey and China, with draft text and script writing completed. The Farabi Co-operation Protocol has been signed and co-worked to work on the Middle Asian Turkish world, along with the University of Al-Farabi. An important portion of the documentary by the Turkish world's great Islamic thinker, Farabi, about the interesting life and the idea of civilization, was also filmed and moved into the post production phase. After all, valued lawmakers, this is not the closed name of a large or expanded Middle Eastern Project. The Alliance of Civilities, as you can see by its name, is an important initiative that Turkey has taken first in the multi-religious and multicultural world. On purpose, I don't know, from time to time, our dear friends here are trying to reason with us on these matters. I'm going to leave it in the House records, so you can open it up and talk about it. Yes, another issue in our country is the economic contribution to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. And I'm going to have a brief piece of information about that. Mr. President, it is our primary goal to ensure the presence of the Turkish Cypriot, law, freedom and future, to ensure peace, prosperity and security, to sustain development, and to integrate with the world. We support the ongoing negotiation process on the island and appreciate the constructive efforts of President Mustafa Akincı. In this delicate period, the motherland is important to be seen by everyone that Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus are acting in unity and unity as usual. The Turkish Republic's governments have maintained their strongest support for the Turkish Cypriots since the country's administration was excluded by the Greeks. Today we are determined to continue all financial, economic and social benefits to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, regardless of the ongoing negotiation process in Ada. Turkey aims to establish a sound state structure for a competitive and sustainable economic arrangement that is self-sufficient in the island with its economic, financial and social support for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. The main goal of economic programmes in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is to bring the Turkish Cypriot people to life with the reforms they need, to increase the efficiency and quality of public services, to create a strong and solid financial sector, and to create a private sector that can compete. With the pressure of the Greek Cypriots and the world ignoring legal, legitimate rights, we continued our support as the Republic of Turkey, despite the unjust isolation of Turkish Cypriots, and we will continue in 2017. As a motherland, we have provided about $10 billion in support for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus since 2002. These expenditures are not included in about 1.6 billion dollars in the Su Temin Project. In 2002, the total amount of assistance, which was $424m, was made in 2009, when the effects of the global economic crisis were felt -- I ask you to pay attention to this area -- by reaching the highest point, at $928 million. So the economic crisis in the world and Turkey's influence did not stop Turkey from contributing to the isolated Turkish Cypriot. So far, 730 million liras have been used for 2016. Turkey's support for the budget deficit is under way when the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus can't afford local revenues. In recent years, the success of the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus in fiscal discipline has reduced its demand for support for the budget deficit. In 2009, contributions to the 621m-dollar budget deficit remained at 220m liras in 2015. We aim to use our supports rather than funding budget deficits, infrastructure investments and support of the real sector. In 2009, 130 million liras were spent on these areas, while today's funding for these areas exceeds $300 million. The Turkish Cypriot Republic's political, economic, social, and cultural life, which faced fiscal isolation and embargos, was established in 1975 as Prime Ministerate Chief of Cyprus in order to regulate the planning and co-ordinating of these assistance. Co-ordinating aid to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is being carried out by the Prime Ministerial Cypriot Affairs Office, projects in the field are being monitored by the Office of Economic and Development Co-operation, and implementation of economic programmes is monitored by the technical delegation. Aids are carried out under three-year economic programmes, which add up to the international agreement, co-ordinating and managing an annual aid budget of around 1.5 billion euros. The public administration of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, public finance, financial sector and real sector are provided with technical and financial support, with around 300 projects being conducted. As part of the 2017 Financial Year Budget Law Bill, 1 billion 173m euros have been issued for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. With the grant envisioned to hand over from 2016, we will have about 1.5 billion dollars available for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus in 2017. Mr. President, I'd like to bring you up to speed on the peace talks that have been on the island for years and resuscitation in 2016, while the valued lawmakers once again stressing that the ongoing co-operation between Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus will continue uninterrupted. With the support of the 39th Government established in the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus, Mr. Akinci and Greek Cypriot representative Anastasiadis met within a year in the United States, then in Switzerland, and discussed the solution with support of UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon, who will end his term at the end of the year. In addition to Turkey's persistent demand for solutions and rightful demands, the Greek part's uncompromising stance -- I want friends in the opposition to pay attention to this part -- has caused another significant opportunity to be ignored.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0423par0380	We're listening.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0417par0381	We're not giving anyone anything. So many opposition MPs, respected politicians, maintain the claim that something was given from Cyprus and was overlooked.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0424par0382	That's what the news sounds like, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0417par0383	This is the true religion.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0425par0384	I hope so, I hope so!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0417par0385	Not just to the north, but to the entire island, which ignores the fact that Turkey is a garantist state with international agreements... It's the guarantor of all of the island, like Turkey, England, Greece.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0426par0386	That's what the contracts say, but we suspended those contracts, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0417par0387	So, dear MPs, we're not the only Turkish Cypriots who live there. The 1960 Agreement describes us as the garantizer of all the land and of all the inhabitants of the island, and this agreement has not changed.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0426par0388	Look, you put it on hold, you don't apply it, and those contracts made in 1967, Minister... for example, let me tell you something: we help African countries so much, none of them recognize Cyprus.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0417par0389	Make a separate Cyprus agenda, and I'm running out of time, if you'll excuse me. Let's make a separate Cyprus agenda, and we'll be happy to discuss it there.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0426par0390	Of course, but, for example, none of the countries you've helped recognize Cyprus, Turkey is the only country in the world that knows Cyprus.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0417par0391	Now, in Cyprus, of course, there's more to be said, but my time is limited. It's about the organizations...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0427par0393	Mr. Tanal, let's not interfere. Mr. Secretary, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0428par0395	I mean, we've come to a good point, Mr. President. That's why I'm saying it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0427par0396	We'll talk about that later.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0429par0397	He told us to listen well. So we listened.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0430par0398	First of all, there are things that have been asked and are very, very often on the agenda, so I'll answer them, and then if I have time, we'll take this new term for the High Institution and the Turks abroad...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0431par0399	I mean, we'll grant you an extension, if Mr. President agrees.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0430par0400	With pleasure... if the House agrees, I'm prepared to provide information, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0431par0401	Sure, as long as we get this straight.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0432par0402	We're okay with it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0430par0403	Now, this is a lot of information confusion about Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, about contributions from the Business Bank. This is the shares of Ataturk, which are not the shares of the Republican People's Party -- drawing gold -- and of its own shares -- the Rahmed Ataturk has ordered such a will in the terms of that day, and his will is in this direction -- he has bequeathed a certain amount to the Turkish Historical Institution and the Turkish Language Foundation, and has continued to work on this will so far. In order to protect the rights of this, the Business Bank has been envisioned to place a member of the Republican People's Party's Board of Directors.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0433par0405	In the representation, yes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0430par0406	Let me finish, and then you can tell me what you think, but it's important because it's all coming around, there's a mess of information. After making its annual profit, the Bank of Turkey allocates its share of profits to the Turkish Bank of Business, Turkish Historical Foundation and Turkish Language Institution, and then in March, April, May, whenever it comes -- so, of course, it doesn't come to us -- by computing an interest on how much it considers appropriate until then, adding it to the Turkish Institute of History and Turkish Language.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0434par0408	Is he coming to CHP, Mr. Secretary? Mr. Secretary, is he coming to the Republican People's Party?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0430par0409	Now, at this point, there are four members of the Republican People's Party's Board of Directors at the Business Bank. Of course, what they're doing, and whether they're working in accordance with the legacy of the Ataturk, or not, you respected MPs will let us know at an appropriate time.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0435par0410	Watch this!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0436par0411	Is that supposed to be a word? Is that what you're saying?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0430par0412	Now, what I want to talk about here is...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0436par0413	Let us know. What does that mean? What do you mean, word?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0437par0414	Let him speak.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0430par0415	Let's get to another point.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0436par0416	Words? Does that look good on the Deputy Prime Minister?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0437par0417	There's going to be a question-and-answer, you can ask questions.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0430par0418	You know, I don't.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0436par0419	Let him go. And you have the right to speak like that? Does it suit you? The Deputy Prime Minister?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0438par0421	You can ask in the QA, you don't have to interfere.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0439par0422	I'm the current...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0440par0423	Congressmans, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0439par0424	Anyway, let's not go in here now.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0441par0425	It's like an accusation. Don't blame it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0439par0426	Now, there is another note of information, however: The People's Party of the Republic concluded in favour of our institutions the case, which claimed that it was its own responsibility for the shares of the capital raised in 1966. Two: The Republican People's Party in 1973, in order to determine whether or not the will of the will of the will of Ataturk (Turkish Language Organization and Turkish Historical Society) in some ways such as the order, form, rights and obligations of the will of the will of the will of the will dated 5 September 1938 -- 1973, this is not in power, such as the EC PARTI or any other era -- and the case has been dismissed in favour of our institutions. The case has been dismissed. The trial was filed after the People's Party of the Republic insisted on not giving its income to institutions in 1977 and 1978, Ankara 4. It has been decided that the money must be given to the institutions by the original Court of Law 12/2/1980 and 979/660E, 980/56K. Four: The 21/4/1993 directive issued by CHP to the Turkish Business Bank continues to inform you that the income is not paid to institutions, that the constitutional and legal issues in this matter continue.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0442par0429	They're probably judges.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0439par0430	Now, what I'm trying to say here is that very valuable lawmakers: Ataturk has made a will, the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Society are still operating in accordance with his will. It has been in every period of power, but since 1966, your attempts to put on this have always been rejected.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0443par0431	What does that have to do with anything? Put what on? How do you put it?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0439par0432	Let's not have this deaf discussion. I mean, it doesn't suit the politics of the 21st century.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0443par0434	There's a will, there's a will. He also has a will for the Ataturk Forest Farm, and you can see what happened to the Ataturk Forest Farm.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0439par0435	Sir, the judge in 1966 is not the same...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0444par0436	Now, does it suit you? Didn't you say the guns didn't go to the Turkmen? Now you don't make any noise at all. Is that your consistency?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0439par0437	...the judge in 1973 is not the same; the judges in 1977, 1978 are not the same; neither is the judge in 1993. I'm just providing information based on the information I have.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0445par0438	The old Tuğrul Türkesh is not the same today.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0439par0439	My time is short.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0446par0440	I mean, where is Tuğrul Türkesh in the ranks of the mp, where is Tuğrul Türkesh in the ranks of the AKP? Which one is it?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0439par0441	It's the same person, don't hesitate. Relax, relax, it's the same person. Now, I'm going to finish my time by answering a few questions, and it's too short. Nuryat Altaca Kayşoglu Ma'am, CHP MP, has said that excavations are not supported by the Turkish Historical Society. Our agency supported 45 excavations and surface studies in 2014, 24 in 2015, 36 in 2016. Some of these go on like an Eskiyapar dig, like an ashtray. We'll get the information to the lady about this.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0447par0444	After 2014?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0439par0445	Utku Çakırözer Bey asks how many research and scientific activities have been conducted between 2015-2016 and directly linked to Ataturk? In the meantime, there was also a mention of the structure of the Turkish Historical Society of Mercidabak, and I began with this saying of the late Ataturk, about the Turkish history of Ataturk. A memorial ceremony of Ataturk is held on November 10th every year by institutions within the Supreme Institution and within it from 2015-2016, as part of the state ceremony. The ATAM broadcast activities have all been distributed for free, and many more studies are being carried out, including 51,154 books and continuous publications related to the republic's history and Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Yes, since it's been a short period of time, I won't be able to address any other matters, but Mr. Ziya Pir had some interesting questions, so I'll give him a written answer about them. Meanwhile, the final statement, Mr. Kadir Yıldırım, has offered to change the name of the Turkish Language Foundation, which is the will of Ataturk. Why don't you show your reaction to the AK PARTY to your neighbor, CHP people?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0448par0449	I have you as Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0449par0450	That's your job as minister.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0439par0451	No, I mean, if you own the heritage of Ataturk, do you hold back the only AK PARTY?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0449par0452	That's your job, you're responsible, I'm not responsible, you're responsible.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0450par0453	Who's in charge, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0439par0454	I salute you all with love and respect, and wish that the 2017 budget bring blessings to our country. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0451par0457	Well, you found the easy part, so you pass it on to us when you're supposed to answer.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0452par0458	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0453par0459	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0452par0460	Mr. Special, I promise you, but I have to make a brief statement here. Honorable lawmakers, former head of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, who had been in the political stage for many years, and who had also taken important roles with the quality of the stateman, were also former ministers of the Democratic Party of Turkey, Mr. Ismet Sezgin, who also served as President of the Democratic Party of Turkey, received the mercy of Hakkk, at the age of 88. I ask for God's mercy, my condolences to his relatives and to our nation. God rest his soul. Yes, Mr. Special, you have entered the system, and I promise you according to the Civil Code 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0454par0468	Thank you, Mr. President. We've just learned about this tragic news, and we remember him as an exemplary politician of his faith in democracy, even though he was not in line with the political views of the Republican People's Party in his Turkish political life. We cherish this precious person who has been the Speaker of Parliament, and we ask for patience for his relatives, and we pray for God's grace. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0455par0471	Thank you. Mr. Akçay, according to the Civil Charter, you are welcome.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0456par0474	Thank you, Mr. President. We, as the National Movement Party Group, today learned of his death with regret, ask the former President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, former ministers, to express my condolences to the late Ismet Sezgin, his family, and his relatives, who have done important service to our country, and who have also set an exemplary profile as a politician.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0455par0476	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0457par0478	Mr. President, I'd like to take a moment to answer.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0458par0479	I didn't.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0455par0480	Wait a second...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0457par0481	The name of the Turkish Language Foundation established by Ataturk...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0455par0482	Okay, you said your opinion, and the Minister said his opinion. There's no teasing.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0459par0483	Mr. Secretary picked on us, picked on CHP.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0457par0484	No, I'd like to verify a misinformation. I mean, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0455par0485	I'll give you my word according to 60. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0457par0488	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Turkesh said that with a little bit of an air like this, may I provoke the CHP people a little bit more, that the Turkish Language Foundation established by Ataturk was offered to change the name by me; but the name of the institution established by Ataturk, which was founded on 12 July 1932, is called the Turkish Language Society, not the Turkish Language Society. Besides, that name has already been changed. It's been changed once or changed ten times. So it makes no difference. The result is...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0460par0490	No deformities.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0461par0491	It's all about Turkish hostility, sir. I mean, there's the concept of Turk. It's a reaction from a grudge against him.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0457par0492	No, it's already been changed.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0460par0493	It's not deformed.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0462par0494	It's not deformed, it's the other way around, it says to make Turkey fit.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0457par0495	Mr. President, just two sentences.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0463par0496	It's over, sir. You've made your point. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0464par0497	Then they will not even tolerate the name of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0457par0498	I mean, it's already been changed. That is not the name of Ataturk.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0464par0499	We strongly deny it.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0465par0500	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0466par0501	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0465par0502	Mr. Minister has three counts of the Republican People's Party's Party and four members of the Republican People's Party's Business Bank's Board of Directors.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0466par0503	Here you go, Mr. Special. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Two minutes, I promise. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0467par0509	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we listened to the Minister very carefully. After a part of his speech, he entered a polymax that was not really a minister, that was trying to get himself accepted into the new neighborhood where he had just moved in, that made him forget the breaking of ties between him and his former neighborhood, where he was trying to establish new strong ties, and that could be described as politically weak. Let's answer your question first. There are four members of the board of directors appointed by the Republican People's Party. They are responsible for the management of the Ataturk shares. Not in banking decisions, but in decisions related to the management of Ataturk shares. The Ataturk shares are left entirely to the Turkish Language and Turkish Historical Institution in accordance with Ataturk's will. We don't get any blind money for our party. In this regard in the past and even today, these two distinguished institutions established by Ataturk, who were led by the coup d'états and some of the political rulers, were led astray from the founding purposes of the coups, such as, while you were away, one of the three founders of this party, the former President, ▪Atapourcism is fascistism. No one can allow me to become an Ataturkist. He appointed a man who called him, who was forced to resign because of the reactions.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0468par0512	Now he's under arrest from the organization.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0467par0513	You're saying that our mentality should be paid in the will of Ataturk. The Republican People's Party has always argued that the money to be paid today should be paid to the Turkish Language Association, not to the Turkish Language Association, but to the Turkish Language Association, if it remains loyal to the spirit of Ataturk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0469par0516	Yes, now...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0470par0517	Mr. President, there's teasing. It's about my previous party...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0469par0518	And I promise you two minutes and lots of it. Please, let's not afford another taunt, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0470par0522	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have provided information through the data to the High Council. I'm just here to make a concession about Mr. Special. It's my father's party that you refer to as the old party, and I'm not broken with it, they're my brothers.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0471par0526	Bones ache, bones!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0472par0527	You were there until yesterday, you were there until yesterday.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0473par0528	Let's not interfere, lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0474par0529	They're my brothers, but there are challenges to politics in a country like Turkey, and there are responsibilities to actually serve society, and there are risks, and there are risks, and I do politics by taking those risks. My respects.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0473par0532	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0475par0533	You're not used to it anyway.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0476par0534	Mr. President, for the record, I just want to remind Mr. Secretary that when you leave your father's party where you carry his last name, the officials of your party have decided never to address you by your last name again, they have called you "Turkish" and I remind you of that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0477par0537	What's it to you, what's it to you? Why is this any of your business?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0476par0538	It's your business, what's it to you?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0478par0539	Mr. Special, I don't think you should get too involved in other parties. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 In this regard, as the last speaker, I would like to call Istanbul MP Izzet Ulvi Yölter. Here you are, Mr. Yölter, the last speaker of the day and, therefore, of the evening, waiting for a decent speech, I hope. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0479par0580	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in the second round of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law and the 2015 Final Accounts Act. I hereby salute the High Council and its esteemed MPs. Here today, I would like to briefly share with you a victim that I received hundreds of messages over social media. Sixteen long years have passed since the State Department of National Defence issued its tender for the presidency, which was agreed by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2000, and was adopted by the Turkish Armed Forces' Contracted Officers and Petty Officers Act on Petty Officers. During this period, thousands of officers and petty officers have performed their duties as external sources, offering their lives in the Turkish Armed Forces. The laws issued after the coup attempt of camouflaged traitors linked to July 15 have been closed on the basis of the laws issued by the Harp Schools, and the students of the Military School have been cut off. In addition, the procedures of officers and staff cadets from civilian resources that no one has seen or ignored have been cancelled, as well as those of the officers and non-commissioned officers and non-military candidates who have not been provided by the military commanders in accordance with Article 675 of the Constitution issued on October 29, 2016. Foreign funding purchases by the Turkish Armed Forces to ensure the need of officers and petty officers have been halted and the rankings and procedures of these cadets have not been made. In this regard, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Ministry of National Defence or the Prime Minister does not make any arrangements. The second election in April 2016 and the final week of April of these students, the physical competency test and verbal interview, have also resulted in positive results in all phases. On May 29, 2016, the original rankings were set. In June, they received medical reports at the newly established hospital within the Army Academy. At the same time, they signed a pledge and handed it over to the Army Commander's Office of PERTEM. These brothers and sisters were to start training in February 2017. Thousands of cadets who have passed these phases by their own means have been informed that all transactions have been cancelled by Article 675 of the Law issued on October 29, 2016. Thousands of candidates express that they are suffering from psychological breakdowns, they are being victimized for this reason. In addition, these brothers and sisters also say that even though the procedures of experts who were interviewed in the same commissions a week later were continued, their transactions were annulled by a decree in accordance with the law. Their demands are very simple: All officers demand that a supplementary regulation of Petty Officers Classes 675 to be passed through a detailed security and archive investigation of all forces in the first round and remove the obstacle to being a petty officer. In addition, another problem with the messages that these brothers forward to our side is the request of the new officer to receive KPSS from the petty officers. The majority of these brothers, however, did not even enter the KPSS (KPSS) because they considered training to begin in February, and without KPSS, they cannot apply for new purchases. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is our greatest hope that our great Parliament will listen to the persecution of these brothers and end the victim's suffering with an arrangement in the Constitution 675. It is also our greatest desire to conduct rankings and procedures of those of our brothers who seem to have had a positive outcome of the security investigation and who do not seem to have any contact or relationship with ا. As I end my words here, I salute you all, and wish you a good budget. I pray that the budget of 2017 will be good for our nation, and that it will bring new hope from Almighty God. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0480par0590	Thank you. Thank God, so the second round of talk is complete. Now we're going to do 20 minutes of QA. Ten minutes of time is a question, ten minutes is an answer. I will take turns promising the MPs who entered the system earlier for questions in ten minutes. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0481par0595	Thank you. Mr. Turkesh, when I told you the archaeological excavations had stopped, you gave an example from 2014. Which means it's stopped for two years, since you haven't given me another example. Now I'm asking my questions. The first: you brought Mümtaz (Mumtaz)er Turkane (Turköne) from prison to the administration of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute in 2011. When will you appoint those who claim the authority of this institution and the republic, as I have stated in my speech, instead of this and so on? By the way, you've actually distorted my Mercidobak rhetoric. What I'm saying is, why does the Turkish Historical Foundation, which makes a symposium on the moon about Sultan Selim, not speak out against those who defame Ataturk, but why doesn't it own the Republic? My second question: when are you going to fulfill your promise to the subcontractor?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0482par0602	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0483par0603	Thank you, Mr. President. On 4/9/2016, Mr. Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım announced the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian incentive package covering 23 provinces. The incentive package amounted to $62 billion in state support and $140 billion in private sectors. However, Hatay, who took his place in the tax ranking in the first 20 percent each semester, was unfortunately never included in the incentive package, as he was never included in the announced incentive packs. It is of great importance that the city of the border, which started in Syria in 2011, is the most affected by the internal disturbances, is the addition of nearly 400,000 refugees to the package of encouragement of our Hatay, which has many problems, including the closing crossing gate and the heavy damage of road transit transport. Do you have any work on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0484par0607	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0485par0608	1) It has been announced that the contract will be repealed unilaterally by informing the tenants of 43 buildings owned by the Foundation in 1962. They want to know why there's going to be an evacuation of the tenants and tradesmen who were victims on winter day. Is it going to fall down, or is it going to be rented to the allies? What will become of the users over the years? 2) The new bath in Niğde Bor. It's stopped working for a year. They call it "the Burdener" who quit his job. The active bath is closed. When will the repairs be completed? 3) There is a magnificent monument from the Ilhans of the mosque of Sungurbey in Niğde. It was repaired after the fire in the 18th century. A double minaret hasn't been made in years. Plant and animal motifs are about to disappear. Cami is seriously awaiting proper repairs. Is it considered to be repaired? The rescue of the Sungurbey Mosque is also vital to Niğde. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0486par0612	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0487par0613	I'm asking the Prime Minister. In your power, we see that you're trying to cover up your past cooperation with the GERPs instead of fighting the GERPs. Now, I ask your authority: aren't you the one who feeds, raises, plagues the state and the nation? We gave them what they wanted. Aren't you the one who said? Don't you think you're the one who called out to Pennsylvania and said, "Come on, Hodja, let this longing be over?" You're the one who said, "You've given the Ankara to the parsels." Aren't you the one who praised Fetullah Smiley in the past? Isn't it you who called the July 15 coup a blessing from God? Ministers, don't bother, don't look for accomplices. The culprits are those who are among you. Clean yourselves up first. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0488par0616	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0489par0617	I'm asking the president of disaster and emergency management: the 11 counties are scheduled to establish disaster and emergency response centers through the Foundation for Religion of Turkey. The heads of disaster and emergency response centers will also be mufti, it is said. Have the mufti ever been educated in the seminary about disaster situations and health? Is it not more appropriate to have experts who have been trained for disaster and emergencies at the head of these centers? My second question to the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey: Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Agency has spent only 25 per cent of its budget in recent years. You gave a partial answer to that. Isn't there a problem with human rights in Turkey, a study that's not being spent? Or was this institution created just so you wouldn't lose prestige in the international arena? Even though you received an application until June 2, 2016, why haven't you formed the human rights board yet?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0488par0619	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0490par0620	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, an additional volume has been written in the Islamic Encyclopedia, published by the Dianet Foundation, but has not yet been distributed. Mr Murat Küpçı claims to have studied this additional volume, in which he is referred not as a terrorist organisation but as a political organisation. Is that true? If this claim is true, I demand that this additional skin be published after the necessary corrections have been made. Again, when will Turkey's Ahiska Turks be granted citizenship? Is it also true that the Hudayi Foundation opens imam-hating high schools in some countries? Who or whom does this foundation belong to? Is this foundation being given financial or spiritual support through the presidency of the TİKA or Turkish and Relative Community abroad? Again, are these and similar foundations being enough audited in terms of loyalty to the state in the absence of a new ▪? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0491par0625	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0492par0626	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in order to prevent environmental pollution due to the increase in quarry and break-in elimination facilities under Mining Law 3213, each unit, which is a source of dust, must be placed in a closed environment. If that's not possible, the irrigation system must be established. Sultangazi quarry, which has been active in Sultangazi district of Sultangazi province for more than 20 years, is not in the closed environment and does not exist. I went there, and I saw it in its place, and even though I was between homes and far away, my black vehicle turned white in ten minutes. In the middle of the neighborhood, why is this quarry, which is the neighborhood's nightmare, which prevents them from opening their windows even in the summer, not being inspected, and why is the existing regulation not implemented? The irrigation system must be switched to. I want to know if you'll solve this problem for our Sultangazi district, which is already in great difficulty with the problem of terrorism and drugs. The Sultangazis are waiting to hear from you on this matter.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0491par0628	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0493par0629	Thank you, Mr. President. Torture isn't just physical. As a physician, I say that the greatest torture is spiritual, psychological. At the moment, 10 of our representatives, including our co-chairs, are prisoners, held hostage, elected by 6 million voters in 81 counties. This is persecution and torture for those who love peace and freedom, who believe in the brotherhood of the people, their faith, their freedom, and pay the price for it. In these budget talks, the absence of our Group President, Mr. Idris Bauken, is also persecution and torture of Parliament. I blame this Parliament for not taking a stand against the coups on November 4th, and I wish our 2017 budget would bring peace and brotherhood to our peoples, our country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do you believe that our party members, especially our representatives, will be judged fairly in this environment, where there is 97 percent of distrust in the judiciary?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0494par0634	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0495par0635	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, we have two Deputy Prime Ministers. Are you both e-mailing e-mails, electronically, from your own private e-mails, or from the private e-mails of the ministry that you've been found? Question two: Regarding our citizens abroad, both TİKA and the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys abroad call on associations close to political power at meetings, while the other members do not invite our other citizens. Why is this discrimination being discriminated against? Third: Was any help or any money sent to the European Union of Turkish Democrats abroad in the election process, or was it sent from what source? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My fourth question: the tuition for the renewing of our citizens' passports abroad is very high. Do you have any work on this?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0496par0641	Finally, Mr. Star...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0497par0642	Thank you. Mr. Ismet Sezgin Hakk, our esteemed elder, who served as mayor of Aydın, who served as MP of Aydın, and who served as Minister of Parliament. May God have mercy on him, and his place will be in heaven. First, my condolences to his family, his loved ones, and all the Enlightenment. Father Ismet, we won't forget you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0496par0644	Mr. Pine, you're the last. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0498par0646	Mr. Secretary, how many foundations closed after July 15th? What's the status of the closing foundations? We're reading reports that some foundations are being given their goods, their properties, to Ensar and TORGEV. How true are they? And in part of your speech, you said that you served Syrian refugees with understanding. We'd like you to serve with a sense of Veysi Source, not in the sense of Ensar. Ensar's understanding is not a very prestigious and prestigious understanding. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0499par0649	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0500par0650	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0501par0651	Mr. President, it's very important.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0499par0652	Sir, it's okay. Now, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, who's going to use the response time first? Here you go, Mr. Turkesh. You have ten minutes of response time, so you can split it amongst yourselves.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0502par0656	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For one thing, there's not a lot of answers there because there's a lot of sentence, but in the question of our congressman friend, he just referred to which associations are based on foreign Turkish activities abroad. It's not being done, so in activities abroad, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys is considering all the project demands that have come to him. It also contributes to the budget of reasonable, reasonable ones. In studies abroad, I can't give you the details now, but in matters I know, there's also an attempt to communicate with all political parties abroad. But we also observe that you're not very enthusiastic, your friends with different political views in cooperation with the President of the Foreign Turks. In the meantime, there are a few questions that have been asked earlier, and I will mention them and then leave the word to Mr. Source. Mr. Ziya Pir mentioned a project that was alleged to have been removed from the Internet. I've had this looked at, and the website of the agency is being updated from time to time. However, the chapter on the project you mentioned has not been removed from the website and is still available for transport. The project was presented to the President of the Foreign Turks in 2013 and completed in the province of Berlin and North Rhine-Westphalia. As part of the project, Turkish children taken from families in Germany received instruction seminars on Turkish foster families in order to grow up alongside Turkish families. The topic of information is that in 2014, Zaman's newspaper tried to create a negative perception of our institution. It also has an announcement to the public on 15 November 2014. Gene, it doesn't mean to continue the conversation just now, but I'm about to present the names and locations of the digs here, sir, to Nuryat Altaca Kayşoğlu Ma'am. Yeah, there weren't many questions about our institutions. I thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0503par0663	The e-mail, the e-mail you used? You use your own e-mail in government correspondence?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0502par0664	No, I didn't, I didn't, sir. No, we're not doing that.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0504par0665	Thank you, Mr. Turkesh. Here you go, Mr. Source.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0505par0667	Dear President, before I begin the answers, I wish my condolences to Ismet Sezgin Sir, who is the key figure in Turkish politics. Now, our Hatay MP asked why Hatay did not exist in the incentive package we announced in 23 provinces in East and Southeast Anatolia.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0506par0669	We're waiting for Hatay, Deputy Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0505par0670	It's actually our Minister of Economy's work, but I'll tell you this: on the one hand, while fighting terrorism in the areas that have been fought against terrorism, he was willing to make the move to develop, which is why Hatay is not within the scope of it, as I know it is not Maras. But there's already a constant incentive system in Turkey, and I believe our Hatay entrepreneurs will benefit from that incentive system. In response to the question of our Nüğde MP Omar Fethi Bey, Niğde was taken into our investment programme to rebuild the Foundation Business Inn. We've issued notices to the tenants that there will be no contract for 2017. We'll get the project going as soon as possible. Again, we will make our Foundation Business in Niğde, both modern and solid. We know the importance of the mosque of Niğde Sungurbey, and we thank our MP. He's prepared the restoration projects of this mosque, our Foundation General Directorate. For the project approval of the Board of Protection...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0507par0673	But it's gone too far.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0505par0674	But the Protection Board, you know, it's a relatively autonomous organization.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0508par0675	It's very historic.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0505par0676	Exactly, that's why we're being sensitive. Once Projects are approved at the Protection Board, hopefully we'll be able to make it happen as soon as possible. As the Niğde Bor bath restoration continues, the revised project, due to the static problem, has been presented to the Board of Protection again, and we will continue the restoration post-approved.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0509par0679	Restoration is incomplete, Minister, that's false information.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0505par0680	Yes, the restoration is incomplete, and that's what I'm saying, because there's a static problem.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0509par0681	No, the contractor's gone.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0505par0682	No, no, we revised the project because there was a static problem.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0509par0683	The Minister is giving false information.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0505par0684	No, our knowledge is correct, my dear Congressman, that I would be ashamed and ashamed to give you false knowledge, false knowledge, and false knowledge in front of the House. Now, the question about ▪ was actually asked to Mr. Prime Minister, but perhaps I can say to answer the question of Mr. Musa Çaman. In fact, as you know, the State Control Board was activated after December 17th and 25th, and the work had already begun at that time. So how did you know these things in one day, in one week? That is an answer to the question. The work had already begun, and there had already been significant distances between personnel and formations in this struggle. In this fight, 123 foundations have been closed.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0509par0686	How many have been opened since 2002?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0505par0687	No, I mean, that's not...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0509par0688	No, no, just answer me.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0505par0689	The question of how many have been opened since 2002 is not related to this question, but I will also give you a written answer. 2.110 plot transfers to the General Directorate of the Foundations. In this 2,110 parcels, there are many different ways of moving from the chicken farm to the coffee shop, from the barn to the coffee shop, from the house to the workplace. The educational facilities that our public institutions need are dedicated to free of charge from the Ministry of National Education, according to a provision imposed under the law. The Ministry of National Education has been prioritized, and the institution of loans and dorms is the priority. Later, the request of the foundation working for the public has been assessed, and according to this request, our House of Foundations has decided to allocate it for a fee. In these foundations there are, yes, the foundation that you count. However, I must say, I take it as a joke the matter of Moses Bey against me. You know very well that in our faith it means another concept.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0510par0692	From Mecca to Medina.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0505par0693	The Prophet, the prophet of our religion, who we all believe in, has emigrated to Medina, the emigrants, and the guests. Even Eyüp Sultan, the eldest of the Ensar, is in Istanbul, in our homeland. Thus, I used the word "ensar" on purpose. There is no other nation in the world, like us, outside the camps, looking at more than 2.5 million refugees in our Turkey as refugees, sharing bread, vaccines, jobs with him. I've got a young businessman who's bored talking about it in Istanbul, who helps 300 people, including his rent and food. Now, sir, Mr. Gaytancioğlu, there is no work left to the Religious Foundation regarding the AFAD rescue centers. AFAD is implementing training centers, search and rescue centers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If there was, we could train the members of the religious community there. I want to answer other questions in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0511par0700	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0512par0701	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0511par0702	Mr. Demirel, please, I give you my word according to 60.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0512par0705	Thank you, Mr. President. There are a few points I'd like to get the Minister's attention. In particular, Turkey's Human Rights Committee for Human Rights and Equality has expressed its presence. Yes, there's this board, this board has created different subcommittees, but we don't have much information on how long this board works because it doesn't work. We've had a request to have a commission set up for the creation of the detention committee and to investigate rights violations of the prisons, especially to the elected and journalists, and to examine the situation in place, but we still haven't received any response to this demand. Secondly, Mr. Secretary, I've stated yesterday that all documents that our elected lawmakers and co-chairs have sent to us from prison or written about their legislative activities are being confiscated. Tell him to get out of here... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] President, I'm just going to finish my promise.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0513par0711	Please complete, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0512par0712	All the information sent by our co-Chair, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, is confiscated, and at the same time, the documents he sent for legal activities are not given by the administration. He even gave him a fax number, our agency's fax number, lawyers, and we know it wasn't given to him by the prison authorities. You have stated that the State of Emergency was actually done to the state, but we know very well that the entire society of Turkey has been affected by the State of Emergency; workers, artists, politicians, local rulers, poor people, workers, women, young people, the whole community has been affected. Perhaps we can share these details with you in the future. And you know it and you know it. As soon as the State of Emergency... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm saying that with the removal, life has to go back to the way it was. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0514par0717	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0515par0718	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0516par0719	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0514par0720	Dear friends, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0515par0721	I have a few things to ask you, to ask you a question.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0517par0722	He never spoke, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0515par0723	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0517par0724	Make positive discrimination.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0518par0725	Okay, for the last time. I'm making an exception to the ladies, to our ladies, to our MPs, to our women's deputies. For the last time, I give you my word according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0519par0729	Thank you. I entered the system to ask questions, and there wasn't enough time. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister, that most of the curfews in Cizre, Sur, Şırnak, Yüksekova, Nusaybin and İdil have been destroyed, as you know. Some media reports have reported that the payments of the insured dwellings and workplaces damaged in these conflicts have been cancelled by the Interior Ministry. Is this news true? If that's true, why were these insurance transactions canceled? If it's not, do you have a plan? The people of Şırnak, Nusaybin, İdil and Sur are waiting for an urgent answer.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0520par0732	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0521par0733	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0520par0734	Guys, we said last.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0522par0735	But we're waiting for an answer.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0521par0736	Mr. President, I was also in the system, according to 60, wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0520par0737	Now, look, there are so many lawmakers in the system, let's not be unfair.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0521par0738	For the first time in a long time, I want a say.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0523par0739	I'm waiting, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0524par0740	There's one here, too.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0525par0741	Look, there's a break-in, there's a break-in.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0526par0742	But this is the first time I've asked.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0525par0743	Sir, we're closing. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the second round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey will be transferred to the central management budget of 2017: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.61) THE RIGHTS AND ACTIVITY OF TURKEY 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 6.614,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 230,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 6.844,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Influences With Donations and Aids 6,799,000
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0527par0797	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0525par0798	Yeah, that's good news.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0528par0799	We've been waiting.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0529par0800	Good morning! The shop is open, good morning!
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0530par0801	They're running out of numbers, so we thought we'd take some time.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0531par0802	It's the only way we can get you to sit down, so you don't sit down.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0532par0803	Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Pir, Mr. Botan, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Atalan, Mr. Adıyaman, Mr. Todıyaman, Mr. Todığul, Mr. Önlü, Mr. Kadri Yıldırım, Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Capable, Mr. Özbüce Ertan, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Paylan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0533par0806	Mr. President, the system doesn't work.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit04spe0532par0807	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit05spe0532par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 33th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Agency had been held in a roll call before voting on the income scale. Now, we're doing the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We continue our talks with the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 The commission and the government are in place. I'm reading the draft of the Human Rights and Equality Association of Turkey (B): 04 Special Influences With Donations and Aids 6,799,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 45,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 6,844,000 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey was adopted into parts of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Human Rights Institution of 2015 will take part in the final account of central management: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 4.833,000.00 Budget Expenses 1,765,753,12 Canceled Fund 3,067,246,88 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 4,833,000,00 Collection 2,353,952,77 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Human Rights Institution of Turkey has been adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of Foundations will be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 40.18) THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 29.685,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 14,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 326,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 415,580.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 72,732,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 532,323.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Attempted and Property Influences 527,063,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 53,186,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Profits 116,380,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 696,629000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2015 shall be transferred to the chapters of the Foundation General Directorate: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 486,700,415,96 Budget Expenses 467.969.809.74 Canceled Fund 18,678,526,12 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 52.080,10 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 636.622,000.00 Collection 684.647.304.08 Ret and Returns 14.472.675,11 Net Collection 670.174.628.97 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The headquarters of the Foundations General Directorate of 2015 has been adopted into parts of its final account. I submit to your votes that the president of the disaster and emergency administration shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2017: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 07.96) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 10.233,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 159.827,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 45,903,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 3.728,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 1,023,010,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 1,248,151,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of the disaster and emergency administration were adopted in 2017. You've reached your vote that the president of disaster and emergency management shall be transferred to the final accounts of central management in 2015...
tbmm-2016-12-07sit05spe0534par0135	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit05spe0532par0136	There's a request for a roll call before the test. Now, we're meeting the roll call. Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Atalan, Mr. Todıyaman, Mr. Odıyaman, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Atash, Mr. Önlü, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Pir, Mr. Botan, Mr. Irmez, Mr. Capable, Mr. Özbuki Ertan, Mr. Bilgen. I'll give you one minute to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 I submit to your votes that the mayor of disaster and emergency management shall be transferred to the final accounts of central management in 2015: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Budget I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: Total allowance is 3,257,500,700,00 Budget Expenses 3.141.020.254.77 Emancipation Expenses 99,269,94 Canceled Fund 116,579,715,17 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairman of the disaster and emergency administration has been accepted as part of the final account of the central administration of 2015. The chairman of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2017, those who have not accepted... are accepted. 40.32) Turkish Employment and COORDINIASYON AJANSI Vice President 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 294,711.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 770,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 295,481.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 110,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 290,251000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 5,120,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 295,481.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2015 be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 382.710.909.44 Budget Expenses 221.417.805.95 The grant goes to 19,569.04 Canceled Fund 151,756,828,37 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 9.555-844,16 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 141,049.000.00 Collection 298.509.252,44 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President has been approved for the final account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the president of the international Turkish and related communities shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who have not accepted... those who have not accepted... have been accepted. 40.51) THE PRESIDENT OF THE YURTDISH ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTIONS 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 62,203,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 600,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 215,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 277.803,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 666,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 275,503,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 1,634,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 277.803,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The presidency of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the President of the Foreign Turks and Relatives Associations, the final account of the central administration of 2015, shall be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 248,748,214,72 Budget Expenses 228.922.816.44 Canceled Fund 19,825,398,28 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 223,896,000,00 Collection 215.651.823.84 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The President of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad has been granted a final account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History shall take part in the central management budget of 2017: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.02) THE ATATURK CLUB, LANGUAGE AND ARTIAL PRODUCTION 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 11.270,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 375,000
tbmm-2016-12-07sit05spe0535par0273	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit05spe0532par0274	We've got a roll call. We're going to do the roll call now. Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Atalan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Todıyaman, Mr. Adıyaman, Mr. Botan, Mr. Botan, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Atash, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Öcalan, Mr. Yilekli, Mr. Özbukçe Ertan, Mr. Başaran, Mr. Pir, Mr. Taşçier, Mr. Paylan. Yeah, I'll give you a minute to roll call, and I'll start the roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Human Rights Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2017 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account T) Turkish Employment and COORDINIAN AJANSI Vice President [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account ÜRK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Gen. TOPLAM 11.645,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 8,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 11633,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 11.645,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit05spe0536par0330	Mr. President, there is no Deputy Prime Minister Tuğrul Turkesh. We're talking about his budget, we're voting, but there's no Deputy Prime Minister here. There are so many MPs, waiting; the Deputy Prime Minister took his bag and left. Did he go to another party or what? Did he go to another party?
tbmm-2016-12-07sit05spe0537par0332	I'm here.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit05spe0532par0333	Mr. Pine, please... the representative of the government is here. The Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 11.053.803.58 Budget Expenses 9.707.071.75 Canceled Fund 1,346,731,83 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 10,613.00 Collection 9.329.994,38 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Research Centre will be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who have not accepted... are accepted. 40.03) ATATURK RESEARCH CENTER 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 5,113,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 5.113,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 5,013,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 5,113,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ataturk Research Centre was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. Ataturk Research Center, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Ataturk Research Center 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 4.818.295.00 Budget Expenses 4,731,829,68 Canceled Fund 86,465,32 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 4.299.00 Collection 4.451.025,17 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Ataturk Research Centre is considered part of the central management account in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Cultural Center will be transferred to the central budget of 2017: those who have not accepted... those who have not. 40.04) ATATURK CLUB CENTER 1) Ataturk Cultural Centre 2017 Central Management Budget 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4.220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 4.920.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 182,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 4,738,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 4.920.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ataturk Cultural Centre was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. Mr. Pine, you've just asked Mr. Turkesh. Mr. Turkesh, our Prime Minister is coming from abroad to meet him at the airport, as he is acting as minister to the Prime Minister. For your information, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit05spe0538par0397	It's not like he's moving on to another party.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit05spe0532par0398	Ataturk Cultural Center, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 5.748,000.00 Budget Expenses 5.105.223.25 Cancelled Grant 642,776,75 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 4,350,000.00 Collection 4.551.197.92 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Ataturk Cultural Centre is considered part of the central management account in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Language Foundation shall take part in the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.05) ENGLISH LANGUAGE 1) Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2017 03 Public Order and Security Services 393,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 15.385,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 15,778,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 100,034,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 301,250 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 59,733,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings 5,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 160,074.250 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Turkish Language Institution's central management budget were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Language Foundation's central management account of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 24.658,738,78 Budget Expenses 13.575.083.36 Canceled allowance 11.083.655.42 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 143,363,000,00 Collection 158.107.387.88 Ret and Returns 1,072,30 Net Collection 158.106.315.58 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Language Institution's central management account of 2015 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Historical Foundation shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who have not agreed... those who have not... have been accepted. 40.06) Turkish Tariq Kurd 1) Turkey's Historical Institution's Central Management Budget for 2017 03 Public Order and Security Services 657,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 10,059,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 10.716,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 104,561.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Funds and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 60,021.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 164.586,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Turkish historical institution's central management budget were adopted in 2017.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit05spe0539par0472	President, at least get them to raise their hands, 10 people raise their hands, so we see them here.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit05spe0532par0473	If there's ten of them, there's nine of them.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit05spe0539par0474	Not at all.
tbmm-2016-12-07sit05spe0532par0475	I submit to your votes that the Turkish Historical Institution of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters of its central management account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's historical institution for Central Management Final Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 167,204.255.00 Budget Expenses 162.882.076.08 Canceled Fund 4.322.178.92 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 111,000,000.00 Collection 145,798,729,41 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish historical institution's central management account of 2015 have been adopted. Yes, the budgets and certain accounts of the companies involved in the second round have been accepted, and I wish them well. Congressmans, the second round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. Thursday (December 8th 2016) to discuss the budgets and precise accounts of the institutions, respectively. I wish you good night, closing the assembly at 00. Closing Time. 22.13 (x) 433, 434 S. The Numbered Basmazes and Funding Cetves are added to the 31st Consistency Charter, dated 5:12.2016. (X) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the orator. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the orator. (x) In these chapters, non-English words were expressed by the orator.
