tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. On the night of July 15th, the first word is from Ankara MP Nevzat Ceylan, who asked for a statement about the martyrs in Kazan district of Ankara. Mr. Ceylan, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, I've invited the minister to the stand, and we're expecting a deep silence. Here you go, Mr. Ceylan. Please complete in five minutes, no extensions, all speakers.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0002par0013	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have fought an epic battle against the coup d'états all over the country in the attempted coup attempt on July 15th. I salute and cherish all the brothers and sisters of the political party who were one heart in all of Turkey, who we fought together to save democracy. All those who believed in democracy, opposed the coup, did not enter the streets with the call of the leader of every political party, especially our President. Our citizens and our heroic security forces have gathered at strategic points in front of military troops throughout the nation to prevent a coup attempt on the ground, shielding their chests against bullets, tanks. The traitorous coupgers had taken action under their higher mind, calculated everything, but could not think of our people's commitment to democracy. Our people, who stood before them fearlessly, turned the treacherous's account upside down. Everyone should be proud to be a citizen of this country because everyone has a story in which the coup is prevented, and they have memories to pass down from generation to generation, and as long as these memories live, no one will ever think of the coup. Dear MPs, as you all know, the coup centre is Ankara, the capital city of Ankara. When the coups took over the capital, they calculated they would take over the entire country. When the signs of the coup were received, our people in Ankara took action without a second in Ankara, as in all Turkey, when our President invited our people to the squares. Thousands of Ankarans are on their way in all our rural counties, mainly central districts. Our borough municipalities, our public institutions, have pulled all heavy machinery before military troops, preventing tanks and military vehicles from leaving their troops. Especially under the direction of our Ankara agencies, the most strategic points of the capital have been quickly launched. In every party, the love of democracy, from seven hundred percent anti-plotic children, women and citizens of all ages, at strategic points, put up a wall of flesh against the slugs of the coupters, tanks, planes, without fear of death, and fought heroically. In particular, he has challenged thousands of Ankara coupters in front of the Presidential Assembly, Turkey's Grand National Assembly, the Chief of Staff, the National Intelligence Agency, Pigeons, Black Aviation, TRT, Ankara Security Directorate and places such as Kızılay Square. The lakefront wrote a separate epic. In places like the Police Academy, Special Forces, TÜRKSAT, our agency, our mayor, has taught lessons that will not be forgotten against the coupgers, especially all the Lakeheads. In front of the military troops at Mamak, our organization, along with the Mamakites, our mayor, has told the coupkers their place. Etimesgut did not give way to thousands of Etimesgut and Sincan tanks in front of the Armored Forces. In Aldındağ, Goatören, Yenimahalle, Pursaks, again, our people wrote epics with our organization, with our mayor. The Poles, who have also prevented military vehicles from exiting the Polythian military force, must not be forgotten. Kalecık, Çukuk, Kızılcahamam, Çamlıdere, Ayash, Beypazarı, Güdül, Nallıhan, Akyurt, Elmağ, Bala, Haymana, Şallikokhisar, Our fellow citizens of the Universe quickly reached the places where the coupters tried to capture and teach the coupters. In this heroic resistance of our people, we have received martyrs from our executives, from our city council members, people who have been injured. But Kazan, the struggle of our people is a separate epic. Within the Kazan limits of which the coupists have chosen as their base, Raider 4. Leaving the main Jet Base to prevent the launch of the F16 planes that bombed Ankara, Parliament, the Presidential Chamber, thousands of Kazanlıs, children, young women, have fought irrationally to prevent the flights from taking off. With tractors and vehicles, hay bales, uncut wheat fields, unused tires, he tried to heroically prevent the planes from taking off. In this glorious resistance in Kazan....there were nine casualties....we have 84 gasses. Dear MPs, the most martyred in the coup attempt was in Ankara, where the most veterans are still in our capital. As it is known, Ankara began its fight in the Battle of Salvation to become the capital by hosting the Gazi Parliament, which ruled the Battle of Salvation. Ankara crowns its second war of salvation with victory, calling the coup d'etat with a renewed love of salvation. So, by shielding his chest against the treacherous blow, he's a hero to prevent the coup, the bullets, the tanks, the planes... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in the name of all the provinces of Ankara, who shielded his chest and gave the most martyrs, I call upon our great Assembly to give him the medal of heroism. Also, I think it would be appropriate for the city of Kazan, the most martyred and wounded in order to prevent the launch of planes in the direction of Ankara Air Base, where the coup was used as a base, to be given a heroic medal by our Grand Assembly on behalf of the districts fighting the coup in all Turkey again. I salute our High Council with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. Ceylan. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu, who asked for a statement on the re-establishment of social peace on July 15th. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0004par0029	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I begin my speech on July 15th with the respect, gratitude, mercy of people who are martyrs of democracy. These people have gone down in history, my dear friends, history will write: "There has been a bloody military coup attempt in Turkey, and the people have blocked it by standing up to the tanks. Dear lawmakers, how did this happen? What neglects, mistakes have prepared this?,, the soldiers, the civilians?, we will talk about these things, but now is not the time, and yet we must never forget that the coup was in the political and social polarization environment, which was created from the top, and that the reality, after that, is that politics, society, and the state should be rebuilt. Yes, the Fethullahist coupgers have taken the lead, that's the main color of the action, but there are many games in the game; there are many involved, there are actors; there are still new games being created. What's still breaking the game is that people from all sides, the power, the opposition, the media, all of our people, stop the coup by embracing it together. We thank everyone, but most of all, of course, our people who are standing in front of the tanks deserve it. Let's face it, dear lawmakers, in fact, the democracy that was about to slip away from us, the people gave it back with dozens of martyrs, and again, they entrusted it to us, to politics. Now, we have the opportunity to turn this disaster into an opportunity for social peace. Now, it's time to pay our debt to this community. We can only do this by rebuilding democracy with all its needs, by rebuilding it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we must pay attention to the following: First of all, we have to punish the coupgers by sticking to law, rights and freedoms, never, never, never burning with dry age; this should not turn into a hunt for a period of time, not in the form of a general liquidation. Two: One of the major reasons that prepares this coup is our problems with the state of law. Therefore, the reconstruction of the legal state is essential to rebuilding it with all its needs. My fellow lawmakers, of course, rule the country in democracy by the elected majority, but that majority governs within the law by sticking to the law. We are chosen, we have the national will, we can do anything. My dear friends, we have seen it once again during this attempt. Another important issue: the state will be rebuilt. We're really wasted, my dear friends. Four of the president's five aides are coupters, the Chief of Staff, that's not acceptable. While the state will be rebuilt and built, equal citizenship, righteousness must never be forgotten, never, never discriminated. My fellow lawmakers, one of the most important issues is the polarizing language from the top, which we must abandon. I'm telling everyone with his power and his opposition, but the most job falls to power, because power is responsible. We must tolerate the opposition. Different thoughts must be expressed. Opposition's ability to express itself must be opened, issues related to this matter must be resolved. Another important issue is justice, my dear friends. There's no way democracy can be protected or protected in a scheme where nine stamps are given to nine people, one stamp to one person. It's not a country ruled by poverty, it's a country where the social state stands up, and most importantly, religion, faith and identity must be stopped from being the subject of politics, my dear friends. It's what we call secularism. Dear lawmakers, we must now really consider this understanding of Islam, this belief, this understanding that has prepared this coup between our two hands. We must end up together, my dear friends, the principle of secularism, which has come from the deputy to this day, that religion should be used for politics, for trade, for means of transportation. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0005par0042	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen, who wants to talk about the July 15 coup attempt and the institutionalisation of democracy. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0006par0047	Mr. President, while the valued lawmakers question the relationship between democracy's institutionalisation and coups, I think the first thing to be put on the table is how the security sector, security bureaucracy and security perception are shaped. TV just gave me subtitles. In a statement on behalf of the Armed Forces, the total number of members of the armed forces involved in the group that has been taken into custody so far has been held between the total number and the total member of the armed forces, and the result has been shared with the public that it corresponds to 1.5 per cent. So we have two questions, very clear: either 1.5 per cent of us can manage, influence, not only 98.5, but make moves that can determine the future of the entire country, the fate of the entire country, or what we experienced that night was not just 1.5 per cent, others were involved. Dear lawmakers, the political will of armed forces all over the world is essential to democracy, but democracy is not just that. Democracy now requires civilian control of the world's security sector, security bureaucracy, parliamentary control. So, if all political decision-making mechanisms, which are very special and professional from the expenditures of the armed forces to the plans of operations, except for technical expertise, can be controlled by civil society and parliament, including their budgets, it is possible to talk about a real democracy there, but if the will to identify a part of society as a threat can be shaped by non-democratic, non-transparency mechanisms, there will always be a power, a will that is motivated to take power of state in that country, which can only be obtained by weapon. Here, after this, it is necessary to consider the immediate measures to avoid the next July 15th, especially the determination of security policies, the implementation of these security policies, including domestic security policies, should not only be transferred to the Armed Forces, and this decision should be brought to the table as to who it will be shared with. Otherwise, it's all about getting over the big boy on July 15th, which is not a healthy, holistic reading. If there really is a higher mind, then perhaps July 15th must have made plans as to what would happen in the event that the attempt that night would fail. If we're doing exactly what the coupgers want in the event of failure, or if what we're doing involves wrongs that will serve exactly the social tensions they desire, social conflict, new aberrations, then we, knowing or not, are actually in the way of other scenarios of the upper mind. Aliya Izetbegovic has a very valuable saying about the civil war in Yugoslavia, which says: "When you die, war ends when you look like an enemy." If torture is a method that the coupters will stoop to, we have to question whether or not to use these methods -- as we see in Egypt very concrete -- whether to use them or not to discuss them, even to question social expectations, social perception, even if it is known by the coupters. Dear lawmakers, we have to question in all its dimensions what relationships are involved in today's arrival, what blindings, what supports, what accounts and expectations. Up until now, as far as we can see, in bureaucracy, educational institutions, Diyanette, Armed Forces, the judiciary are conducting a temporary seizure and trial process for the links to this work, but if we don't take into account the initiative of the real decision-maker if we don't take into account what it's worth directly in the city, in Parliament. In particular, statements about the crash of the Russian plane and practices related to the cemetery make it necessary to be concerned about security as well as to deal with the threat of social peace more seriously. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0007par0056	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Now, according to the Interior Charter 60, I'm going to make the first 15 members of lawmakers who enter the system a minute for a minute. The first word belongs to Mr. Ozkan. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0008par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. The traitorous, treacherous coup plan of the terrorist organization was repelled on July 15th, when our nation, under the leadership of Mr. President, claimed its own will. The cost of that night alone is 80 billion euros, as calculated today. In addition, with the damage done to the inventory, public property, and private property, the cost is well over 100 billion euros. The coup attempt on July 15 was a constant experience of what would have happened if it had been a success. As it is known, in the 1960s, 1970s and 1990s, the economic crisis, the coming to the end of the trade, the embargo, the black market, the loss of brother's blood paid heavy prices. It is a duty on our nation and Parliament to go through this coup attempt, which has been repelled by our nation's upright stance, to ask the coupters for the cost of it and to make it pay for its costs. I hereby salute the High Council...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0009par0066	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0010par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. During each period of his history, our great nation, who have not hesitated for a moment to sacrifice its life for its homeland, has once again shown its stand upright against traitors, members of the Fethullahist terrorist organization who attempted a coup on July 15th. Our martyrs, our veterans and our nation made history all over our country that night. He gave the same answer to the attackers of this country on July 15th, a century ago in Çanakkale, Kutül Amare, Dumlupınar. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who, in a single sentence of our President, flows into the square, shielding himself in front of tanks, planes, helicopters, regardless of the bullets fired on him, no matter how much we thank these heroes who have saved his country's future and future, we can't work for them, no matter how hard we do it. Not only in Istanbul and Ankara, I congratulate all our citizens who have been on democracy watch all over Asia Minor, but I salute my Ottoman citizens who have stood up to us from the first moment of betrayal. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0011par0071	Mr. Kringle...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0012par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. On the night of July 15th, like so many times in his glorious history, he wrote a new epic, without hesitation, facing the heavy weapons of the traitors. 81 counties, 78 million citizens in unity and unity take their place in the squares every night after that day, continuing their democratic watch until dawn. On this occasion, I'd like to thank all my citizens, especially my citizens from Samsun, who are holding the democracy watch. I curse those who attempt a low blow, those who support, those who have a little sympathy.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0011par0076	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0013par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. And at the beginning of my words, once again, I strongly curse the attempt on the July 15 coup attempt. Once again, I honor the late Kamer Boy, the valiant MP of Tucson, who spoke out of this Parliamentary platform about those who caused this coup. In my speech yesterday in Parliament, nine of our young people, who were not guilty of this coup attempt, who were also concerned and concerned about the fact that age was burned along with it, are unfortunately under arrest on the night of the coup attempt. These, these nine young men, have yet to be liberated. I also told you in my speech yesterday that in any way these people had nothing to do with the coup attempt, they had nothing to do with changing constitutional order at gunpoint. Because of the climate at the time, they were deprived of their freedom as a result of a quick investigation by the prosecutor. It is the hope of the people of Artvin, and of Hopa, that these children will be free as soon as possible.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0014par0082	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0015par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. I condemn the coup against democracy on July 15th, and ask God's mercy for our fallen martyrs. My question is to the Minister of National Education. There's a lot of serious chaos going on with national education. There are suspended teachers, closed schools, dorms, contract teachers and, of course, students. Does the Ministry of National Education have a planned work to prevent our students from being affected by this chaos? In particular, what study is done about the gap in teaching staff? What method is followed in closed schools? What are the number of students in closed schools? What measures does the Ministry of National Education take when it is considered that these students will be divided into other schools?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0016par0087	Mr. Boyraz...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0017par0089	One of the most dramatic aspects of the coup attempt, July 15th, was to see how the people who were on the road were transformed into a generation that fired a bullet against the state and its nation. Instead of raising a generation of free minds, a conscience, a free state, and a nation, he put the community in front of a mankurtized gang. We have all seen those who say that our nation has set out to fulfill its dreams, how our nation has marketed its hopes, tomorrows to global forces, how it has been transformed into a generation of bullets against its commander-in-chief, its comrades, its nation. I can't find any words to make it possible to turn a bomb into a killer who bombed his own coven, drove tanks over his own nation, lost his mind, lost his conscience, rented his mind. The coup attempt by this treacherous generation with its global evil gangs and domestic collaborators has failed by local and national forces to bring down the concepts of the state and the nation. The unwavering will of our commander-in-chief, the love of the land of our beloved nation, the faith of democracy, and the plans of those who planned dark plans on our country with the help of God.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0016par0090	Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0018par0092	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I sincerely congratulate you on this great nation's efforts to achieve democracy in an unprecedented way in the history of the world. I ask God's mercy on our martyrs who have died for the country without blinking their eyes, and for the immediate healing of the wounded, so that I may not be patient with their relatives. I congratulate our heroic fighting people, our security forces, our special operations units, our judgment, and our valued commanders who have never paid the price for a low attempt. I have no doubt that the death demands expressed by our people in the squares of democracy will also be met by this great Parliament, and our people will be honored. I propose that the winter garden of our Parliament, exposed to the bombs of traitors, be transformed into a historic museum in the power and opposition lobby. May the Day of July 15th of Democracy be a blessing to our country, to our nation.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0019par0096	Mr. Ilican...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0020par0098	Thank you, Your Honor. Last Saturday was the 97th anniversary of Erzurum Congress. We've attended ceremonies as lawmakers. So I had a conversation with the world at the historic convention building, comparing that day to today. On that day, the people of Erzurum, and the brothers-in-law, and Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, took possession of the land; and they made a declaration of will against those who tried to divide it, and to tear it apart, and they started a national struggle. However, on July 15, 2016, so-called coupters bombed our parliament, martyred our civilians, and during that time, both the brothers-in-laws in Erzurum, as well as all the citizens in Turkey, in the democracy watch, our president, our government, our Parliament. This enthusiasm and enthusiasm were never lost, and it was shown by the will of God that these citizens of this democracy... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... Thanks to this, no one will ever make such an attempt again. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy for our martyrs. And to the veterans I've just visited, I wish you a speedy recovery.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0021par0103	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0022par0105	The July 15 coup attempt on our nation's life, the existence of our democracy, shows the state of the inner nature of the Fethullahist organization, which has been ignored by certain alliances, even though we have clearly warned it for years. Those who attempt a coup should face the harshest punishment in the face of justice, but those who are in power, who have led these coupgers to rise to such a degree in every state, should also be held accountable, learn from their mistakes, not turn democratic response into political opportunity. It is a fact that political will, which has not taken the necessary precautions in our country today, has avoided accountability of every mistake for years, and has continued to co-operate with the coupgers and protect them. Therefore, political power should listen to opposition for the principles of the rule of law, secularism and righteousness that it destroys, giving up street demonstrations every day, making sense in our country, giving up peace and trust. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0023par0108	Mr. Dish...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0024par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. On Friday, July 15th, the illegal, illegal coup attempt by traitors ended with the heroism of our beloved nation. Mr. President's upright stance from the very first moment of the incident, the administration of our Prime Minister's office, the anti-drug statements of our opposition party's presidents, all the plans of the parallel gang of betrayal have been disrupted. Now all political parties are obliged to act together in order to better explain the bloody action of the terrorist organization inland and abroad, because the only goal of coupters is the will of the nation, the sovereignty of the nation, the sacred trust our beloved nation has handed over to us. It's up to us, as the protagonist of the nation, to always, but, but without representation, to protect, to preserve, to greet the General Assembly with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0025par0113	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0026par0115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Attorney General of Giresun held a press conference yesterday. At this meeting, the prosecutor said the helicopter crash in Giresun's rural area would also be investigated. He also stated that there was a warrant for the arrest of Giresun Brigadier General Mustafa Right, who had lost his wife and daughter in the accident, who had been severely injured and who was still in intensive care in GIA. We don't know what information and documents the state has on the Brigadier General, where or how he obtained them. These will be considered under investigation. However, following these new developments, the helicopter crash, which resulted in seven deaths of military and military families, has become even more meaningful. And as I said before, it has increased doubt. Other possibilities are being discussed besides accidents. We expect a new statement from the Prime Minister and the concerned ministers. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0027par0118	Mr. Hero...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0028par0120	Mr. President, I'm afraid we're also witnessing eye-roasting practices as to the July 15 coup attempt. One of them was in the village of Becar in the district of Bagatlı, İzmir Province, Turkey. On the night of July 15th, a military send-off is held in the village. Most of these young people are drunk. On the occasion of entertainment, one of the young men went to the mosque and said, "What flood is this? Was it Sharia who began to argue with the imam, trying to understand what was happening when the discussion grew, and trying to calm the situation, the villagers began to gather at the mosque. After all, 7-8 villagers are currently under arrest for supporting the coup. These are not young people who work at a public institution, nor are they aware of the incident, but are also drunk, but have been arrested according to the testimony of the mosque imam. He points out this situation, and I call upon the government to act as a warning that such reckonings on innocent people will lead to new fronts. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0029par0123	Mr. Dursun...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0030par0125	Mr. President, I wish God's mercy to our brothers who were killed in the coup attempt of the 15th of July, to the wounded and to the veterans. Our people who owned this terrorist organization, the national will and democracy, who had become a toy of international forces, gave the best response to this terrorist organization, who had become its pawn, by jumping in front of tanks, by having the courage to intervene in airplanes, helicopters. The pawns of these international forces must know that this nation has always taken over the state, and it will come out after that. We've also seen that our society has gained a different spirit here, and has strengthened its culture of moving together and taking care of its homeland, its nation, its flag. I truly thank our President, our Prime Minister, our deputies, our political parties, all the parts. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Really, we showed you the time of unity. Let's hope this government lives on for the rest of its life.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0031par0130	Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0032par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. On the night of July 15th, our country was exposed to a coup attempt, and with our nation's total unity, these traitors were not given the opportunity to strike. Then there may be a new coup attempt, and with concerns, security measures have been taken in our important public institutions and institutions. However, some of these security measures have undermined the dignity of our Armed Forces in our country and among the number-one armies of the world. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is also unpleasant for the image of our army and our country, by closing the doors with the city buses, which we have long seen implementing, by pressing security measures against the doors of the municipalities' trucks, ladlings against the gates of our Armed Forces. Our request from the authorities is that such images be terminated immediately, that security should be provided through our more technological, scientific and intelligence units, not through primitive methods. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0033par0136	Mr. Illgezdi...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0034par0138	Thank you, Mayor. First of all, I condemn the coup on the 15th of July. I wish God's mercy on our fallen martyrs, and an immediate healing for the wounded. Only those who describe rape as sexual assault are considering preventing it by drafting a chemical castration law. But one thing is forgotten: rape is the result of the desire of the male dominant society to possess and possess. However, any violence against women is part of the social order based on women's inequality and persecution. So without equality, rape and violence are impossible to prevent. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court's revoking of all sexual behavior on children who have not reached the age of 15, including eight to fifteen years in prison will allow the defendants to be punished in all cases, as if the victims were adults. So he's going to give the defendants less punishment, which is going to make children vulnerable to all kinds of abuse and rape.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0035par0142	Finally, Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0036par0144	As a member of a council that was bombed on the evening of July 15th, knowing the public trauma of the coup attempt, I say there is no one who doesn't curse the coup, there is no one who doesn't oppose the coup. All the friends here know that the coups are trying to create an illegal sense of power in antidemocratic ways, and rightly, they're against whoever the blows come from. Democracys are shaped by a need for reconciliation and are driven through a culture of compromise. I have power, I will do anything without caring about other people who don't support me or vote for me. If you say so, the result is chaos, chaos, and impact mechanics. Whether it's public support behind you, whether it's the power of the law enforcement forces behind you, whether it's the power of sanction, whether it's a political organization, whether it's the support and power behind you, you make people who don't think like you are traitors. Tomorrow, people who possess another power can consider you a traitor in their own world, in their own minds, to make such illegal, illegal, inhuman attempts. The quickest way to break this mechanics is to make democracy work with all its institutions.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0035par0146	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having them read separately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As it is known, our country is on one of the world's most active earthquake belts. In our home, past earthquakes have been examined, showing great loss of life and property. If 95% of our country is at risk of earthquakes, the earthquake should be known to be the reality of our country, when 95% of our population is considered in danger of earthquakes. When the balance sheet of the November 12th earthquakes was examined in August of 1999, there were nearly 18,000 casualties, thousands of people were injured, and nearly 100,000 buildings were damaged at different levels. The economic, social, and psychological effects of life and property loss caused by earthquakes are also undeniable important. The earth's shapes, geological structures and climate properties are as important as the human factor is in causing disasters. The best example of the human factor is the damage between the two countries affected by the same violence. In countries where the loss of lives and goods is low, the measures taken against a possible earthquake are at the highest level and the increased earthquake consciousness is proportional to the lack of damage. It is their expert opinion that these losses are more human error than devastating impacts of the earthquake that occur in our country after every earthquake. Buildings that aren't done properly, the lack of controls, the lack of full awareness of earthquakes, invite the excess of casualties. As devastating earthquakes have occurred in our country in the past, it is a scientific fact that there will be life, property, and material damage in the future. The Bolu and Düzce region is located in the northern Anatolian fault zone, the first-degree earthquake zone. In an earthquake that may occur in our Bolu and Düzce provinces, I would like to ask that Parliament investigate the Constitution's 98th and Internal Charter 104th Articles and 105th Articles be opened in order to determine and determine how prepared our two provinces are for the earthquake and to determine the measures that need to be taken. [[Bolu]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] 9) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] 13. Haydar Akar [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] 15) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] 25) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey has an important place in the milk and dairy industry because of its geographical location and its climate belt. The industry is one of the major productions of our economy. Milk, as it is known, is the basis of healthy nutrition, especially when it contains 85 nutrients, such as protein, fat, vitamins (except vitamin C) and minerals (e.g. calcium and phosphorus). Investments in the milk industry, which has recently been a very large sector, are gaining speed and increasing production. Rather than traditional methods, demand for more health and long-lived dairy products in modern facilities is also increasing. With our productive land, our diversity of plants and our vast animal presence, we take advantage of the industry. However, abundant and easily consumed milk cannot be consumed consciously and efficiently in our country. Our consumption of dairy and dairy is very low for neighbouring countries. However, in our country, there is a particular need for modern milk production and processing facilities, and there is investment potential in this area. The industry, however, has to deal with many problems in general, as well as with these developments. Among the obstacles faced in the industry are the lack of infrastructure for non-hygienic milk production, the lack of health milk production, the lack of animal loss, the low efficiency of dairy animals due to lack of animal care under healthy conditions, the fact that very few parts of producers are organized under the union or co-operative roof, the lack of small family enterprises in the sector, the presence of street dairy, the lack of capacity in the dairy industry; the lack of resources for market problems, research and development, lack of resources, quality supply of raw materials, the lack of raw materials, and the lack of subsidiary power in the sector, the lack of business, for reasons for the lack of business. The key to the problems of the industry is a waved navigation watch of prices. Milk producers say they can't see ahead because the prices are seasonally playing, and they're damaged by the situation. There are also problems in the milk and dairy industry in Bolu Province. In particular, the low price in milk purchases in Mengen district has put the manufacturer in a difficult position. The cost of food in the region is also a major problem in our Mengen district, as in our entire country. In light of all this data, we propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the issues and proposals for solutions of the dairy and dairy products sector, particularly our Bolu Province Mengen district. [[Bolu]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] 9) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] 15) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] 25) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the problems of the families of our mine workers who died in the Zonguldak accident, we propose and investigate the opening of Parliamental research under the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98 of the Turkish Parliament's Interior Charter, 98 of the Turkish National Assembly, and to address the necessary measures. With all due respect. [[Zonguldak]] [[Isparta]] [[Malatya]] [[Denizli]] [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] [[Army]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] 15) 15) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] 16) 16) Tulip Carabinieri [[Scholarship]] 17) 17) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] 18) 18) Akin Ustüdağ [[Mughle]] 19) 19) Namik Havutça [[Balıkesir]] 20) 20) Erkan Aydın [[Scholarship]] Zonguldak is a city destined for coal. Zonguldak, known as "The Capital of Light," is a province in which more than 5,000 miners have been martyred, tens of thousands of miners have been crippled, hundreds of thousands of lives lost because of occupational diseases caused by stone and coal dust, in order to build and develop the industry of our country. For this reason, Zonguldak is a city that has paid a heavy price and suffered a great deal. Mining workers struggle for bread every day hundreds of metres below the ground. Miners with the most difficult profession in the world, working with the sweat of their foreheads, have been victims of populism by now. Our miners have become a group of professionals that were held in Ramadan, entered the new year together, and then abandoned to their fate. In Zonguldak's past, unfortunately, there are major mining accidents. The families of our miners who lost their lives in these accidents are waiting for the government to take care of them. These families have been organized to make their voices heard, expressed their demands and proposals, and tried to announce their voices in the 2014 bag of legislation, but were not successful. Recently, after losing 301 workers in Soma because of the disaster in Soma, it has hurt our people deeply that the rights given to our families were not recognised to the mining families in Zonguldak and other cities in Turkey. It has been a victim of making specific arrangements, limiting a specific time and location. Segregating between our workers who have lost their lives for the same or similar reasons is contrary to the Constitution's principle of equality, but it is not acceptable to consciences. Zonguldak, when we looked at the closest and most heavy balance sheet catastrophes, gave them 103 in Armutçuk in 1983, 263 in Kozlu in 1992, 263 in Karadon in 2010, 8 in Kozlu in 2013. The 1992 Kozlu coal mine disaster, mentioned above, is one of the greatest disasters in the history of stone coal mining, and the greatest disaster in the history of coal mining in Zonguldak. As a result of disaster, 263 of our miners were killed. The conditions of the miners' work are often forgotten and discussed when accidents occur, when deaths occur. Each accident leaves painful spouses, orphaned children, tearful parents. The problems of the families and relatives left behind by our mining workers, who have died because of the disasters that have befallen them, are not taken into account. The families of the mine workers who were with everyone when the mining accident happened are abandoned to their fate after they were laid to rest. The families of many of our dead mining workers are known to be in dire straits. It is unthinkable for our High Council to remain indifferent to this situation. Therefore, without delay, the necessary measures and measures must be taken to ensure the removal of the victim. For these reasons, we propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104, 104, and 105, in order to determine the problems of the families of our workers who lost their lives in Zonguldak, in order to address the problems, to address them, to take the necessary precautions. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0037par0326	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0035par0327	It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Baluken, you've entered the system.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0038par0330	I was just in the system, and I think there's a technical problem.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0035par0331	No, I just saw it. I promise you for a minute, according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0039par0336	Thank you. Mr. President, in the morning hours of this day, several major bombing attacks were launched by criminal gangs called ISIS in the city of Kamishli, Rojava. We regretfully learned that dozens of people were killed and hundreds of civilians were injured as a result of this vile attack. The death toll is not clear at the moment, but we are concerned and anxiously following the news that at least 30 people have lost their lives and the death toll could increase. We, the People's Democratic Party, condemn this attack with a great curse and anger. To all the citizens of Rojava who have lost their lives, we pray for God's mercy and immediate healing for the wounded. We offer our condolences to all the peoples of Rojava. This attack on Hamishlı, these ISIS gangs... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0040par0340	Complete, please. Let's add a minute.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0039par0342	He once again demonstrated how these gangs actually pose danger to all mankind and how they threaten all mankind. In this context, we warn all the forces, all the governments, all the states that have ever supported ISIS indirectly or directly. It is very important not to be a party to these crimes against humanity, but to quickly develop active attitudes with these violent gangs, to be in solidarity with forces fighting against ISIS at local and global levels. We're repeating this call. As the People's Democratic Party, the Democratic Syrian Assembly representing the political will of the people of Rojava, representing the political will of the People's Democratic Party, I want to express our solidarity with the Democratic Syrian Forces and once again our condolences. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0041par0345	Thank you. Mr. Akçay, you're in the system. I'll give you a minute... Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0042par0350	Thank you, Mr. President. The painting, which emerged after the coup attempt on July 15th, was clearly seen to surround the state as if it were a ur. After the coup attempt, more than 13,000 public personnel were taken into custody and nearly 50,000 personnel were suspended. We support the removal of members of this terrorist organization that infiltrated the state's staff. We also welcome the establishment of a co-ordination committee for these transactions. On the other hand, we are very sensitively monitoring the public removal procedures for ا. Retributions must be based on solid information and documents. Otherwise, there will be new violations and sacrifices that will undermine the rights of our innocent citizens. As lawmakers, we all get complaints about it.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0043par0354	Please complete your speech.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0042par0355	The fact that our citizens serving in the same category as a terrorist organization in love with the country and the nation is a condition that can lead to lawlessness and persecution, should not be caused. The measures must be taken at once to address anxiety and unrest in every part of society. The concern that July 15 betrayal has unleashed on our society should not be clouded by dismissals and unlawful detentions, especially the common emotion and agreement of our nation after July 15th. While the terrorist organization is being wiped out, mechanisms to separate the guilty from the innocent must be operated immediately. It is also within the scope of this extraordinary situation and should not be discriminated against by terrorist organisations. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Public personnel who are members of the PKK and ISIS must not be kept out of focus. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0044par0359	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0045par0360	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0044par0361	I didn't notice, Mr. Incescuz. Here you go, and I promise you for a minute.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0045par0364	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I would like to begin by condemning and condemning all previous coups, but the coup attempt on the evening of July 15th has two distinct characteristics of all other coup attempts. One: We're talking about a terrorist organization that's been leaking for 50 years, including all the planes, helicopters, tanks, etcetera that's been delivered to our nation. The fact that this terrorist organization has taken part in various levels within the state within 50 years also shows our difficulty at the point of fighting this organisation today. Today, from the nearest of the Chief of Staff to the nearest of our President, the members of this organization...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0044par0366	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0045par0367	...shows how difficult it is to fight this organization. If there was a terrorist organization that appeared before this, the fight would be a lot easier at this point. With this aspect of the coup attempt on the evening of July 15th, the challenge to combat this terrorist organization is clear. So we have to ask patience at this point when the fight with 79 million of our citizens, with this terrorist organization, is so dangerous, so sneaky, so treacherous, and that they will not hesitate to turn all the resources they have to protect the country, the nation, all the resources they've been given, to threaten it, to try to kill it. Because it has to be removed from within, from within these institutions, so that our state and democracy can have a much more stable, healthy, effective result in the next structure. At that point, such an explanation was required. This should not be considered as a witch hunt, and patience is required here. In the end, they are members of a terrorist organization that has camouflaged themselves within institutions for years, and they are being investigated in many ways.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0044par0368	Thank you. There is a summary of the extension of the Commission's mandate of Parliamentary Research Commission No. 10/123, 124, 125 and 126, which is based on Investigating Every Kind of Instigation for Children: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our Commission, which began on 21/04/2016, decided on 14/07/2016 to ask for an additional month's notice, which is valid on 22/07/2016, in reference to the second joke of Article 105/1. With all due respect, I do. The commission, which failed to complete its investigation within three months, is given a month's notice. The Commission has been given an additional month according to the decree. Now, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the part of the law bill and proposals and other tasks from the Commission. We will resume the discussions of the International Labor Law Bill and the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. The Commission and the Government? Here. According to Article 91 of the Civil Code on July 20, 2016, talks and answers on the first chapter of the Law Bill 403, which is considered the main law of Article 91, have been completed. Members of parliament, as you know, the first joke of Article 28 (a) was me (b) and the first joke of Article 1 through 28 (c) me. Now, let's move on to the motion process on the matter and those materials in section one. There are two motions on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the terms of the International Labor Law Bill 403, which will be issued after the declaration. Spiritual Ersoy Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Open your mind Mustafa Kalaycı Erhan Usta I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0046par0397	Mr. President, we're withdrawing our motion.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0044par0398	You're rolling. Does the Commission agree with the reading motion? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0047par0402	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0044par0403	Heromarash MP Fahrettin Oğuz Tor who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tor. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0048par0407	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the MHP on our motion on Article 1 of the International Labor Bill 403. I hereby salute you and our great nation who follow us. Dear MPs, many talks in the Vezi Parliament yesterday and in the days before have condemned and cursed the coup attempt on July 15th. And once again, I curse the coup attempt. He's telling us to send a bomb to our people, the terrorists who've been shooting bullets, and I don't doubt it'll be necessary. Meanwhile, almost every day members of the PKK's terrorist organization continue their treacherous attacks and martyr our security forces. Yesterday, in Diyarbakir and Van. One was a petty officer, the other was a corporal, and two of our soldiers were martyred. For those who are martyrs in these attacks, I pray for mercy from God, and for our wounded, and for immediate healing. Another wish is that the July 15 coup attempt does not interfere with the fight against the other terrorist organization. Dear lawmakers, Mr. President State Bahçeli made a key statement yesterday at the group meeting regarding the July 15 coup attempt. I'd like to repeat here a very important issue in his statements. Mr. President, first and foremost, it is essential to rely on solid evidence and documents while mass dismissals are being made in the military and civil bureaucracy. All elements of parallel state construction must be identified, analyzed in every way, and all must be brought to justice. It is as dangerous as the cruelty of a terrorist organization to seize the rights of the innocent, to victimize our innocent, innocent people. The intense complaints and criticism we receive are that our brothers, who know their country and their nation as saints, are also treated in the same category as the PKK's terrorist organization; it does not seem true or righteous. With such dignity, administrative and legal savings should not be attached to the oppressed, their rights and human dignity should not be violated, in order and speed. Every part of society is anxious and restless. The July 15th betrayal has already created enough fear. What I expect from the government is that the criminal and the innocent should not be confused while the terrorist organization is being eradicated. Our president's proposal is very important, his statement is very important. In other words, Mr. Group Vice President has just referred to the same issues. Yes, today's environment is extremely sensitive and tense; it shouldn't create new tensions and victims. Dear lawmakers, look, I'd like to say a few concrete examples that we've encountered here: because he took a mortgage from a bank -- he doesn't have initiative; the contractor has agreed with that bank; I don't give the bank's name here, but you know -- our officer friend is suspended today. Or our friend, who was suspended from office because he took out a car loan, had a deposit account, had a gold account, opened a gold account, or paid his kid's tuition, for reasons like this, even got his HGS bridge pass card from that bank. It's unfair to put people with no ties or ties to the terrorist organization in the same bag. It's also a weirdo when it's not done the same way. I'm not saying it randomly, I'm saying it on purpose. Madam Secretary, it is important that everyone here know that the (A) person has taken a loan from the (A) bank, is suspended, but at the general manager level, officers at the head of the review board are not suspended. This discrimination is shameful, sinful, unconscionable. When the same procedure should be implemented, it is indeed wrong not to suspend a number of people. I strongly condemn discrimination even in such a matter. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0049par0416	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. The motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the International Labor Law Bill 403 is removed from the text in the first joke of Article 2 of Article 2 of the Common Labor Law. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Ruhi Ersoy Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Open his mind, Erhan Master Mustafa Kalaycı The Republican People's Party is drawing its motion; we're not reading it. Does the commission agree with the reading motion? Sir, we can't participate. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0050par0429	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0049par0430	Anthalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul who wants to speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0051par0433	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the bill that will allow foreigners to work in our country, while the citizens of the law, the honorable citizens, are out of our jobs. I would like to point out that the number of foreigners working in our country has increased by 260 per cent in the past year, and the number of employees has reached 64 thousand. After 14 years of AKP's power, our country today has been unable to find qualified workers in some majors and has had to provide the need abroad. Therefore, the government must immediately meet with the Ministry of National Education, the NGO and universities and take the necessary measures to educate our citizens in areas that our country needs. The AKP's government must now listen to the opposition's warnings, or the Turkish nation will suffer again. After nearly 600 martyrs in the war against terrorism over the last year, 246 more of our brothers and sisters are unfortunately not among us today after the night of July 15th. We curse the terrorists who attempted this coup. It is the principle of democracy to have elected governments change hands with the election, so the answer to those responsible should be given in the chest. But that doesn't mean that everything is a chest; free press, freedom of expression, transparency, accountability and law are essential to democracy. Some of the rulings in the period, despite the Turkish nation, were involved in antidemocratic practices, but our country and our nation eventually knew how to get rid of these anomalies. Therefore, the Turkish nation resisted the coup attempt in the management of the parallel structure which only occurred a few days ago, and the coup attempt was not accepted by the democracy. Now is the time to take fundamental rights and freedoms further than ever before; time is the time to stand up to the anti-government biat culture; time is the time to create a land lover, a nationalist generation equipped with free thought. We have to reach the level of complex civilizations, without evading anyone else and creating views like the Middle East that don't suit the Turk. We have to be primitive and stand as high-priority Turks in our country in the face of those who carry ugly Sharq cunning. Today, you've finally asked for a return to the United States of America for the person we cursed and caused this nation impossible to describe. In addition, according to the statement of Minister Noble. In July, you finally stopped that person's salary from our government. We have nothing more to say. We say good morning. Another detail about the coup is that the intelligence regarding the coup was received by the MIT that day, but the President and the Prime Minister were released at 20 p.m. It is by means of his brother-in-law and bodyguards. I simply can't make it clear that the president's highly trusted Undersecretary of the MIT, Hakan Fidan....didn't report the coup to the President and the Prime Minister. Therefore, an urgent arrangement must be made, and threats to the state and the nation, immediately spread to the state nervous system, must be taken as quickly as possible, because the victim of this coup attempt is one and he is the great Turkish nation. Therefore, now everyone, especially the President, must continue to use the language of unity, unity, and strengthen our parliamentary system with lessons from the wrong. Furthermore, the construction of a parallel state should not be brought to justice, while innocent, innocent, and innocent people should not be victimized. Another important point is that we must not involve the honorable Turkish soldier and the terrorist group of the Turkish Armed Forces who infiltrated the Prophet's stove. As I end my speech, I salute the great Turkish nation and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0052par0443	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. The motion is not accepted. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 3 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 3 (h) of the International Labor Law Bill, 403, be removed from the text of the article (i) and change the jokes (i) in the following manner. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş "Others: non-Turkish citizens are foreigners according to Turkish law." The authority is the institution: the institution or institution, which is authorized by the General Manager under a tender of 4734 People's Contracts Act, which is set under the regulation of its qualifications and task framework." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0053par0458	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0052par0459	Mersin MP Aytüğ Atı who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0054par0462	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the motion we made regarding Article 3 of the International Labor Law. And I salute all the lawmakers who have earned their wages and have not exploited their sweats. Dear friends, with this bill, new regulations are being made in the international workforce area. With regard to these provisions, we have tried to overcome the very serious problems in the first form of the law under a compromise. Of course, it's not a perfect and perfect bill of law, but as a result, we see it as a bill that will strengthen the international workforce for our country and benefit our country, after the arrangements we've made. In short, if we remember the bill, what did it bring us? An international labour force is being established as a general manager, so the international labour force is becoming a general manager who can do business on its own. In this regard, the general administration would collect the necessary data; much more importantly, the development of various policies that could prevent and prevent non-registered work for foreigners was very important here. Again, in this bill, there are a variety of substances that not only come as a walk-in for qualified foreigners, but also regulate the introduction of qualified foreigners to the labour market, to the labor market. That's exactly what our motion on Article 3 is about here. Here he describes the foreigner. He says that he is a foreigner, who is not a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. We too are much simpler -- because it is a vague definition that people can sense citizenship with the Republic of Turkey; he is a citizen in the past; he is a nobleman; he feels connected to the Republic of Turkey; he is a citizen of Turkey -- we say: he is a foreigner who is not a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. It's a simple arrangement, an arrangement that will actually make everyone feel better. Why did we arrange this substance like this, what was our concern about this substance? It was: Clearly, three million Syrians from Syria who came to our country, claiming to have been invited, and thus I feel a sense of citizenship with the Republic of Turkey. But we say that these Syrians are foreigners, not citizens of the Republic of Turkey. If the Republic of Turkey is granted citizenship, then it will be our citizen. What we particularly want to point out here, my friends, is that because of the very serious civil war in Syria, there are guests who come to our country, there are refugees, there are people who sell their homes, there are people who come, there are people who come, there are sons. Now, we say to these people, no matter what they seek from us, let us do our human duty. Let us feed them, clothe them, feed them, give them food, drink them, perform all sorts of human acts, and most important of all, send them safely home. What do you mean, safe? In Syria, the confusion will end, and we will contribute to the end of the civil war in Syria, and after the end of the civil war in Syria, these people will return to their homes and their homelands. That's what we propose, that's what we want, if that's possible. However, I want to stay in Turkey, I have qualified labour, I have a good brain, I have a profession, I have money to invest. If there is a Syrian who says, we can separate them, they can stay in our country if they want, but we don't think it's right to give citizenship to the other 3 million Syrians, and we want them to return safely to their country. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0055par0471	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 4 that I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 4 of the International Labor Law Act 403 be changed in the following way, adding the following joke to come after the fourth joke, and dictating the following jokes accordingly. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Ali Cumhur Taşkın Ahmet Tan "The International Labour Policy Advisory Council, Undersecretary of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, is comprised of ministers of the European Union, Foreign Affairs, Economy, Internal Affairs, Development, Culture and Tourism Ministry and the General Manager of the International Labor Force." According to the agenda of the meeting, public institutions are invited to meet as members of the board as representatives of the labour and employer confederation represented by the public institution and the Economic and Social Council." The Republican People's Party has drawn up its motion. He did an MHP. They jointly signed their motion to the Justice and Development Party motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change in Article 4 of Law Bill 403, which is being discussed in the following way. "4. Under the head of the International Ministry of Labour Policy Solidarity, Labour and Social Security, it consists of a representative of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Ministry, the European Union, Foreign Affairs, Economics, Internal Affairs, Development, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and a representative of the International Employment Directorate and the confederacy of workers and employers, and a representative of professional rooms established by law. According to the agenda of the meeting, the ministry is called and voted on by national and international institutions and trade institutions and trade unions and NGOs." İdris Baluken Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Berdan Özturk Meral Danış Beştaş
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0056par0491	We're withdrawing our motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0055par0492	Yes, the People's Democratic Party Group is also withdrawing its motion. I'm re-reading the motion that turned into a joint proposal. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of the International Labor Law Bill 403 be changed in the following way, adding the following joke after the fourth joke, and dictating the following jokes accordingly. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Ali Cumhur Taşkın Ahmet Tan Murat Gökturk Aytüğ Ater Necip Shield The International Labour Policy Advisory Council, Undersecretary of Labour and Social Security, is composed of the Minister of the Ministry, the European Union, Foreign Affairs, Economics, Interior, Development, Culture and Tourism Ministry and the Director General of the International Labor Force. According to the agenda of the meeting, public institutions are invited to meet as board members of the labour and employer's confederations represented by public institutional institutions and the Economic and Social Council. Does the commission agree with the motion? Sir, we're leaving it up to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0057par0508	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0055par0509	I'm reading the reason: Under the board's agenda, NGOs could be invited to the meeting in the formation of the International Employment Advisory Board. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 4th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5 of the Law Bill 403 be changed in the following way. I'm going to take a look at this. The ministry can ask for information and documents from foreign and foreign employment and trade organisations and trade unions, which are of the nature of the public institutions and institutions and public institution, regarding other issues under the Law, to remain hidden issues related to public safety. Çağlar Demirel İdris Bauken Sibel Yiğitalp Berdan Özturk Meral Danış Behtaş Behçet Yıldırım Now I'm going to read the most anti-matter motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the change in Article 5 of the 403 rows of the International Labor Law Bill, which is being discussed in the following way. With all due respect. Jakup Akkaya Aytüğ Ater Tur Yıldız Bıçer Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Çetin Arık "The ministry can ask for information and documents from real and legal persons with the public institutions and occupational rooms as to the need for public safety, foreign employment and other issues within the scope of this Law." "The procedure and the basis for sharing information are determined by the Ministry by the opinions of relevant institutions and institutions and occupational rooms." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0058par0535	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0055par0536	He's going to talk about the motion, Tur Star Biçer, Manisa MP. Here you go, Mr. Biceter.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0059par0539	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding the International Labor Law bill. In business and work, the government's most important duty is to provide employment and to protect its own citizens. The goal, of course, is to create policies in favor of society and society. As the Middle East struggles with the problem of war and war, with refugees, asylum seekers, and war, it is a pity that ever since July 15th, the dose of darkness has been increasing, almost as if it were in a dark zone. Congressmans, if this fascist coup had happened, journalists would have been arrested, lynching cases would have started, society would have been torn apart over the current polarisation, academics would have been thrown into prisons, false organization schematics would have been served against you, our young, our children would have been killed on the streets by law enforcement forces of security. So, I'd like to ask you, does this painting look familiar to you? Shouldn't a sense of self-criticism be used for doing so already? Isn't it time we realized that not just by holding the chest head that you're a Democrat, that you're a democracy against exactly what I'm saying? Congressmans, look, I have $1.00 with no Ataturk on it. This Ataturk is one of the Turkish liras printed in 2012 in memory of the Turkish Olympics organised by the congregation. In 2013, they will not be able to build a fire between the Cemaat and the AK PARTY. Mr. Secretary, we didn't believe in the opposition about the situation, and after December 17th, they didn't believe in us. So, I'd like to ask you: has there been any trial on December 17th? Did the facts come out in front of the court? Remember, this longing, come now. It's only been four years since you said it. What about before? We didn't give you what you wanted before. It's in the sentence. They asked for the diet. They wanted TRT, they wanted RTÜK, they wanted TUK, you gave it to them. They've asked for the Deputy Secretary of Treasury, our universities, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Prime Minister's office. You've requested the Ministry of Interior, the National Education, the Finance, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Family Development, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Transport. They asked for judgment, the police, you gave them. They wanted the MiT, you gave it to them. They wanted the army, you gave it to them. You gave one out of every three generals, and they struck today. Now, you must not simply avoid the fact that you have come to the point where you have been sent from the United States to ask for a minister, because he is a traitor. Now I want to ask you: If you go in this manner as a result of the slander, you will not find a country or a republic to rule, which says, "Don't you feel guilty about causing the death of Colonel Ali Tatar. Why don't you bow down before his memory?" We're for democracy; we won't let the coupgers take you down, we'll beat you in the polls. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0060par0550	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5 of the Law Bill 403 be changed in the following way. "2. The ministry can request information and documentation from foreign and foreign employment needs to remain hidden in matters related to public safety and trade organisations and trade unions, which are the subject of public institutions and institutions and public institutional institutions under the Law," he said. Çağlar Demirel (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0061par0559	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0060par0560	Adıyaman MP Behçet Yıldırım demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0062par0563	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on Article 5 of the Law Bill 403. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President's attack was a blessing from God. He said, "No one stood on it, but it was important." I speak to the President here that it is best not to regard the coup as a blessing, but to consider it a disaster that must be damned. If we want to make a blessing out of this disaster, I'm going to put it this way: 1) In order for you to give up the one-man mentality that you've never let go of, 2) Please look at the recent date, to remind you that Turkey's biggest problem, the Kurdish problem, cannot be solved with guns, war, shooting, breaking, breaking, 3) For a constitution that will hold the universal values of Turkey, which will embrace every people, every belief, every region, 4) To remind you that there are parties besides the AKP and that these parties have a say in this country, 5) To be open to criticism, 6) So that you don't despise academics, journalists, scientists, people who don't think like you, 7) In order to make universities a home of science, 8) To build a fully democratic Turkey, 9) In order to establish a neutral, reliable, fair justice system, 10) And most importantly, it's a blessing for you to see that polarizing rhetoric creates a public disturbance, but becomes whole against impacts, which is a blessing to you. You've got to see this. I've arranged for you to see that all of our people are acting together against all of the blows, becoming one. Again, I can list dozens of items like these, but the answer to all of them is Congress. You say the will of the people, the will of the people, but in practice, we don't see it in Congress. There's a political will that comes with 6 million votes, the laws you're trying to bring to Parliament by removing their immunity, bringing immunity to the military, the police, law enforcement forces, with about 80 percent of the vote, to appoint trustees to the municipalities elected by the people, are not solved; on the contrary, they grow, they become gangrene. Now, about the bill. Again, we face an untrustworthy environment of Turkey, a problem of democracy. What foolish investor would come to invest in a country that has a fragile economy and democracy -- I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry -- a country that has quarrelled with its neighbours, or in lemonic relations, in a country that can't achieve inner peace? Eight, nine years later, Beşiktas became the champion. Behold, Sosa, who had a share in the championship of Besiktas, and Gomez, abandoned our Besiktas because there was no secure environment. We can't even bring a football player we're offering millions of dollars to Turkey, how will foreign capital come? Investors don't come to a country with such a fragile economy with no confidence; democracy first seeks a reliable environment. As for the qualified labor force, I swear, in my country, there are so many qualified labor forces. I'm afraid there's no work. If you're looking for people who've finished two colleges and are looking for jobs, do you think they're college graduates, looking for a minimum wage job, looking for people who pay bribes to get a job? Most of them you have witnessed, just as I have. I repeat, he has qualified labor, but no qualified work, work. As long as we create employment, there are millions of people in our country who will work. Don't take the occupational organizations, their rooms against you, take their opinion. It is imperative in the Constitution that the state, which is responsible for improving its citizens' working life, protecting employees and unemployed, supporting work and creating an economic environment that is suitable for preventing unemployment, has the authority to limit the work of foreign persons in accordance with international law and in this context the basis for allowing foreigners to be employed. In contrast, it provides privileged rules for working foreign nationals within Turkey's borders, according to its own citizens. It is not possible to associate this with constitutional rules and public good, public order. It is a bill that gives priority to a citizen, not a citizen, but a stranger, who does not want the conditions he calls for his citizen; who does not seek academic and professional competence in engineering, architecture, medicine and so forth; who does not want to see the graduates of universities whose unemployment is high in our country; who allow the employment of engineers, architects and architects who are not controlled, who don't even know that they are city planners; who allow them to pay taxes; who don't want to pay taxes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's a bill that allows foreigners to serve our country from a distance without need, and I say this law must be completely withdrawn. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0063par0586	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 6th article, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide and propose the change of Article 6 of Law Bill 403, which is currently in session, in the following way. In other laws, a work permit is not seen to be contrary to the law. According to the article, international labour policy and the legislation of trade organisations are based on the ministry." İdris Baluken Sibel Yiğılalp Behçet Yıldırım Now I'm going to read the most anti-matter motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change of Article 6 of the International Labor Law Bill 403, which is currently in session, in the following way. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Çetin Arik Kazım lion "One) The work permit is granted by the Ministry on the basis of the international labour policy established according to Article 4 unless otherwise envisioned in other laws." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0064par0609	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0063par0610	It's Denizli MP Kazim Arlen who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0065par0613	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute all of you with love. I have made a commitment to the amendment to Article 6 of the International Labor Law Bill 403. My dear friends, in fact, beyond the import of workers today, we need to talk about how we can better accommodate our current workers, better live, see where their social rights are missing, and what we can do to complete them. But unfortunately, in our country, where there is so much unemployment, we have to make this arrangement for some foreign workers who are importing workers in this field, who we want to work in the country where teachers are unemployed, where agriculture engineers, veterinarians, architects, engineers are idle. My dear friends, first home, first citizen. If we're talking about this law in a country that has so many unemployed, has an unemployed army, we're really, really missing it for me. My dear friends, with the arrival of strangers... it's also a fact that there are about 5 million foreigners in our country today... and they're working in different places, in different ways, illegally. Now, by ignoring these, by bringing in more foreigners from abroad, I would like to say that if we did this, if we did this, this work that would increase chaos in the country, and if we did this, we would certainly have put it in a position that would harm our working life rather than contribute to the economy in this field. Now, with the arrival of strangers, illegal labor will increase, my dear friends. Fugitive labor means lower wages. Running illegal labor means collecting less than taxes. Running illegal labor means reducing social security premiums, which means it's impossible to say that our country actually benefits both as a state and as a nation, my dear friends. My dear friends, our country needs information and technology imports, not labor imports. In fact, I would like to point out that we need this Assembly today to evaluate, edit these areas, to make efforts to increase investment in the information and technology brought to our country, and to allow the work life to spread to a wider extent, and to allow Turkey to grow faster. My dear friends, today our country really needs investment, production, employment and exports, not workers. We need to get away from imports, imports of workers, imports of goods. At a time when our foreign trade deficit is so high, I would like to point out that if we're importing workers, instead of reducing our imports, instead of expanding our exports, if we're spending our time and energy in different areas, it's not going to be in our country's best interest. For him, new regulations for working life are needed, union rights are needed, social rights are needed for employees; this citizen, these workers, the producers, needs to live in a more prosperous, more peaceful country. We were supposed to make arrangements for these. That's how I finish my words. Thank you all for listening to me. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0066par0624	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide and propose the change of Article 6 of Law Bill 403, which is currently in session, in the following way. In other laws, a work permit is not seen to be contrary to the law. According to the article, international labour policy and the legislation of trade organisations are based on the ministry." İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0067par0634	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0066par0635	Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0068par0638	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. As the People's Democratic Party, I have taken a pledge on the 6th Amendment of Bill 403. Here's what we're looking at in the current situation: we've got a good reason why any work permit should work for how long... because there's no control mechanism on it. This is actually about the lack of a control mechanism over all the dynamics that are happening in Turkey right now. As we look at the current politics, we are going through a period of time in which everyone is making a statement over democracy, but in business, in working conditions, in all living areas, we see the level of reality in practice, unfortunately very little. Now, if we don't make a improvement in working life, we have to make sure that not only our own citizens, but the asylum seekers who can come and the asylum seekers who exist work together, work under humanitarian conditions. When this is the current situation, when you look at the draft bill, there is no control mechanism for how it will work, working hours and working conditions. Thus, sub-stair studies provide an illegal, antidemocratic working ground through the exploitation of the human labor force and entirely through the employer and the worker. So I'm expressing our argument that this work ground should be based on the control mechanism; that the working time should be determined and that it should be within a legal framework. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0069par0644	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 7th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 7th article of the International Labor Law Bill (5) shall be changed in the following manner. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Çetin Arık Orhan Sarıbal According to the workaholic and quality of the ministry's application, the opinion of public institutions and public institutional institutions is taken into account. I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 7th amendment of the Law Bill, 403 rows in question, shall be changed in the following way. The opinion of the institution concerned with the institution and its occupation and the NGOs is taken into consideration according to the nature of the workforce of the ministry's application. İdris Baluken Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Berdan Özturk Meral Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0070par0667	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0069par0668	Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul is demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0071par0671	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have received a pledge on my group's motion on the International Labor Law bill. Dear lawmakers, by this law, number 403, you give priority to strangers, not citizens in the service presentation. By this law, you don't ask a stranger for the conditions needed for a citizen. Again, you're not looking for academic and professional competence in engineering, architecture, medicine and so forth. With this law, instead of seeing college graduates with a high unemployment rate in our country, you allow the employment of engineers, architects and architects based on declarations, who we don't even know are engineers, architects, city planners. Again, with this law, you allow foreigners to serve from a distance, without paying taxes. Again, by this law, you create an unfair competition against our own citizens, allowing foreigners to serve their own names and reputations easily as a freelancer. Again, you don't even seek employment or residence permit, regardless of the properties of this substance, strangers, you give them immunity. Again, you give foreigners the right to work in charities and tax exemptions for public benefit without the permit to work. Again, with this bill, you're drafting a law that provides special provisions for the RD and the free zones. The law clause I have promised on it says that the opinion of relevant public institutions and NGOs is taken in cases that are necessary. Dear friends, what do you mean by "need to be seen"? These conditions must be clearly defined and in which case the view should be made clear. No matter what species or scale, the ministry must have the opinion of relevant vocational rooms and NGOs. It must be guaranteed that the rating system, which was planned for the evaluation and selection of qualified labour force, is compatible with objective criteria. These criteria must be prepared in a transparent and participatory manner. Dear MPs, in particular, on the July 15 coup, I say once again that I have cursed the coup for the first time. I'm afraid you've ignored our warnings about these matters before, and you haven't heeded them. You're now stepping forward in public to clean up the gang, but here we have to give our warnings again. In particular, it is being turned into a witch hunt during the cleanup of these gangs in the locals, especially local executives, relevant property management, and unfortunately some of the parts of them that they think are rivals or aren't wanted in this sense, are actually watering the work. Look, when you're suspending people at the University of the 100th Year, you're including those who don't want war in this country and signed for it, and you're trying to do the same thing at the University of Tunceli. It's extremely dangerous, and it'll bring you watering down your work, and you'll reach different ports tomorrow rather than where you really want to get to tomorrow. So you don't have to turn this into a witch hunt; you have to do it right, and you have to do it in front of the law, based on the law. We're dealing with the gang. You're saying that you've been throwing the executives in this bag who have struggled with the government for years. We're looking, again, you're taking KESK executives, KESK employees into this bag. We do our duty of warning on this matter. If this road is not abandoned, it will be watered down, and really, like I said, you can't get to the point where you want to go, so you can't stop the gang. More importantly, I say we all have to find ways and methods that are based on merit, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0072par0686	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 7th article of the International Labor Law Bill (5) shall be changed in the following manner. With all due respect. Orhan Sarıbal (Bursa) and his friends According to the workaholic and quality of the ministry's application, the opinion of public institutions and public institutional institutions is taken into account. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0073par0696	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0072par0697	It's Bursa MP Orhan Sarıbal who wants a word on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0074par0700	Mr. President, I'd like to share with you some information regarding the transfer of the international labour force to 403 rows. First, in the relevant section of Article 5, a study based on these needs to be taken from vocational rooms. It is simply necessary to make it clear that the Ministry's taking on such responsibility will put us face to face with some problems. Again, there is an institution referred to as the institution of the authority to apply for a work permit, which includes private employment offices. They come out with a similar understanding of private employment offices, which must and must be removed from this structure. This is a serious problem. The working conditions for foreign engineers, architects and city planners in our country have been set in accordance with the Law on Foreign Permissions No. 4817 since 2003. This law regulates the work permits and conditions of foreign engineers, architects and city planners who will work in our country. TMMOB's relevant law - Law No.6235 - clearly foresees this. So, TMMOB has predicted foreign engineers, architects, city planners working in this country, there are certain criteria for that, and there is no objection to that, which is obvious here. The AKP continues to make legal arrangements for promoting power for capital. The International Labor Law Bill on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey includes many negatives against our country, along with many academic profession disciplines, local engineers, architects, city planners. First of all, this arrangement is primarily intended to provide a cheaper labour force for capital. The bill only considers the demands of foreign capital, ignoring the interests of our people and our country. The bill envisions redesigning the powers of TMMOB and its assigned rooms to our country and engineering, architecture and urban planning against our savings. Besides, where are you going to put the engineers who grew up in tens of colleges abroad after the coup a few days ago? How are you going to choose in this system of discipline? In addition to increasing unemployment and deepening insecurity, this bill is of great interest to engineers, architects, city planners. If it becomes legal, unemployment will be found as longer hours, lowering wages and un unionisation. In the event of the bill's legalisation, it is clear that our engineers, architects, city planners will be reduced to refugees and cheap labor in their own country. The unemployment between our colleagues will increase even more. Foreign workers who do not prove academic and professional competency, who are not sought for degree equality, will be considered qualified labor, while our citizens who have proved it will be reduced to interpersonal. The draft law strives to make a qualified labour force of a stranger who does not prove his academic and professional competency an interim member of a country that proves it. The bill, which allows a foreigner to work independently, will take away the right of a country citizen to work freely and make him a low-paying employee with foreigners. Foreign workers will be eligible to work from a distance and without paying taxes before coming to our country, while those who come to the country will be exempted from taking a work and residence permit. This bill is based on cheap labor, cheap labor, and cheap labor. In order for foreign capital to come to Turkey, unemployed people, poor people in this country are ignored, foreigners are expected to find jobs in this country, but on the other hand, labor has been cheapened and laboured and foreign capital has been moved to this country. In this context, we predict and say that this country does not need or need a labor force, as it did in the 1970s, in the 1980s. At the same time, the engineer of this country, the worker of this country, and the unemployed of this country are qualified. The best example of this is our poor peasant citizens who went to Germany in the 1950s, 1940s, and were part of that huge economy. In this sense, it is necessary to make it very clear that this bill cannot bring gains to this country and to the working class; on the contrary, it will open new exploitation fields. Long live TMMOB! Long live democracy!
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0075par0710	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the articles of Article 8 of the International Labor Law Act 403, which is being discussed, be taken out of the text of the article (1), (2), (3), and (3), of the other jokes to be identified according to this. Spiritual Ersoy Open Mind Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mustafa Kalaycı Baki Simsek Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the International Labor Law Bill 403 be removed from the text (3) of the article (3) and added to the following (3) joke, (4) change the third joke in the following manner. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Thrower Ali Yigit Şenal Sarıhan Ünal Demirtaş Çetin Arık The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the Ministry of Forestry and Water, the Ministry of Forestry and Water, in areas related to forest and water, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, in areas related to mines and, of course, our resources, the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, is authorized to grant pre-empts to foreigners who will operate in the field of shipping and shipping, and the professions that need to be allowed to be considered by the Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministers. The ministry also has to get a preview of relevant vocational rooms for applications related to professional professions, architects and engineers. The ministry also appeals to the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' views on the application for a work permit, according to the country's security and international agreements. In accordance with Article 34 of Higher Education Law No. 4/11/1981, foreign national professors will be granted a work permit by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and will be granted a prerequisite on the basis of their positive opinion within a month. The application for the work permit of foreign professors who will work on a pre-existing permit does not apply with the fourth, fifth and sixth jokes of the 7th Article of the Law (f), (g) and (g) dams of the 9th Amendment to remain hidden. The last motion I'm going to read is the most in violation of the clause and I'm going to process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the Law Bill 403 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel İdris Bauken Sibel Yiğitalp Berdan Özturk Meral Danış Beştaş Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0076par0741	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0075par0742	Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0077par0745	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're talking about an important law, but what's really important is that right now Turkey has come out of chaotic and really manageable levels. It's been a pleasant, unmanageable state for a long time, but when you look at the final process, only 12 days ago, this Parliament was bombed, it was bombed with F16. A few places in Turkey were bombed, a number of civilian people lost their lives, and I remember them with mercy, and I salute those who actually had the will of Congress on that day and on behalf of democracy. Now, we've come here, and right now everyone's talking about national unity and unity, there's a lot of activity going on through national unity and unity, and people are being called out to the streets, and that's for the sake of the House to own the will, to uphold the legitimacy of the people; it's a very legitimate and legitimate demand. This is a very legitimate and righteous request, and when we look east of Fırat, we have to look at the Kurdistan and see it there. It's just that when you're bombed here with the F16, the elements that come in there aren't bad. The political authority, which feeds these elements, gives them immunity armor, motivates them to clean houses, clean neighborhoods. Sadly, today, it is the basis for the bombing of this place with F16. Look, there are still curfews going on in Şırnak, Nusaybin, Tyre, and in winter, a month from now, winter will come, and how will thousands of people return to their homes, their habitats, completely destroyed, and how will they live? There's got to be a sentence here from this. But if we ignore the Kurdistan geography, the people who live there, just by calling it the national unity and unity, we'll be able to recreate the impact mechanism, create a new ground. As we were going through such a difficult period, this country was to be talked about: With everyone's difference, with everyone's change, with the will that everyone represents themselves, it really needed to come together, and it really needed to nullify this impact mechanics. Now, Mr. President says it's a blessing from Allah. Yes, it's a blessing from Allah, but how will you turn it into grace? You're just going to call at the shaking point of your own power? But will you still receive this legitimacy with tanks and cannons against the legitimate and honorable demands of the people living in Amed, Diyarbakır, Şırnak, Nusaybin, Mardin, Mardin? Let us not forget: the sole cause and ground of all the massacres there, I insist, stressing: if this place was bombed on July 15th, it's an epiphany of bombings. What happened there that day was a hero, but what happened here today was a traitor. If the will of the people who live there is still unable to form a sentence on the floor of speech, how true is it that we are talking about national will and partnership today? If we're really talking about democracy, if we can only make a statement about the destruction of our own power here without seeing the other side, how real a democracy is that? The one and only condition for us to really get out of this chaos right now is the Democratic Republic. To unite the democratic republic, all parties must come together and start the process of solutions and negotiations. This is how we can solve this problem by sitting down and really getting together in the right mind, first through the heavy isolation conditions of Mr. Abdullah Ocalan, the removal of the curfews, the end of the massacres... This problem is a political problem, this problem cannot be explained by terrorism, this problem cannot be explained by public safety. If it had been done, these 70,000 people would not have lost their lives for 40 years. We've really come to our senses and this is the last time that thousands of people have lost their lives, hundreds of thousands of parents have lost their children, thousands of people have lost their homes, their homes, their homes, friends. Look, Nusaybin has been destroyed, Sur has been destroyed; if we don't see the truth from here, if this place doesn't see the truth, we'll never, ever have the chance to resist a new blow that could happen, and believe me, we won't get off so cheaply. If democracy is really to be brought into this country, we need to see that the Kurdish problem is a political problem, and we need to resolve it by arguing on a real political platform by giving up security policies. Or is there a point in this place every day that people may read mercy to each other, curse the coup every day, and if there is no solution, then there is no solution? Isn't that why this House is here? Isn't the will of this House built here by the will of the people? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Then why don't we respect that will, friends? I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0078par0755	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the International Labor Law Bill 403 be removed from the text of the article (3) and added to the following third joke (4) as follows. In areas related to forest and water, the Ministry of Forestry and Water, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, in areas related to mines and, of course, our resources, the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, is authorized to grant pre-empts to foreigners who will be operating in the field of shipping and shipping, and the professions that need to be pre-approved are determined by the Ministry of Ministry of Ministers. The ministry also has to get a preview of relevant vocational rooms for applications related to professional professions, architects and engineers. The ministry also appeals to the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' views on the application for a work permit, according to the country's security and international agreements. In accordance with Article 34 of Higher Education Law No. 4/11/1981, foreign national professors will be granted a work permit by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and will be granted a prerequisite on the basis of their positive opinion within a month. The application for the work permit of foreign professors who will work on a pre-existing permit does not apply with the fourth, fifth and sixth jokes of the 7th Article of the Law (f), (g) and (g) dams to remain hidden. Senal Sarıhan (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0079par0765	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0078par0766	Ankara MP Senal Sarıhan has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0080par0769	Thank you. Dear President, my dear fellow clerks, my fellow deputies, my fellow writers and all the workers of our Parliament, of course we're talking about an important law and we've just been read our amendment motion. The point to underline in our amendment proposal is the subject of pre-signs. The issue of preliminary permits is, in fact, both because of the views of those ministries and because of the value of the views of their vocational rooms. The fact that security is a problem because security is a problem because it is important for the Ministry of Internal Affairs to conduct security studies through the Ministry of Interior channel, and for improvements in education and education, if they were to work at a university of higher education, the application of their vocational rooms, the application of their pre-existing views, and the OSK, the institute of higher education, especially if they were to work at foundation universities. However, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to try to offer you a few evaluations of today's circumstances in this very short period of time. Work is a right, my friends. The right to work is both a right from international contracts and a right from our Constitution. Articles 48, 49 and 50 guarantee the right to work. When the Constitutions guarantee this right, they essentially guarantee the right of the citizen. I mean, first of all, it's citizens who need to be protected by governments. The permit for foreigners is, of course, a human phenomenon, but if you can't provide enough jobs in your own country, that's a serious problem for you. Now, I would like to draw your attention from this point, behind this heavy coup attempt today, behind this bloody coup attempt, to an important mission to the state. A significant number of our friends who were here suffered several blows, and in particular the 1980 coup created a group called the 1402-alarms, which ended their duties without subjecting them to any legal or administrative investigations of the group, the people working in the public field. There was no claim, no claim that they were members of a terrorist organization, as they were members of a terrorist organization; most of them were public officials who were known to have either left or right opinions. Now, the point that we have today, especially after the defeat of a coup -- of course, we're at a delicate point -- is that we have a responsibility to make legitimate and democratic practices that do not eliminate the right to resist, no matter how legitimate it is. If we let the people we let go of their jobs at random, we'd be violating their right to work first. The right to work, you know, is the subject of all rights. Because the person who can work has the right to health, the person who can work has the right to live, the person who can work has the right to speak. Therefore, we all know, I know, my fellow AKP MPs, you get a lot of calls coming to you, especially from those whose duties have been terminated under the circumstances today -- both in the judiciary and in all public areas -- all of us. These people have nothing to do with this alleged organization, how can you do this wrong? Or I have been wronged. They are calling in the form of this organization. Therefore, we need to make this call to the government right now: To be fair, to be just, to be legitimate is the most important tool. When we destroy a coup, when we resist that blow, as a supporter of the coup against a whole community, if we violate the rights of innocent people in particular to work, at that point we become guilty and troubled, and we fail to establish legitimacy. In a previous speech, I also wanted to point out that it was a human rights violation, particularly by pointing out that the abuse of people during the interrogation period, the torture of others, would make their punishments shaded. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to present this information today about this right to work. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0081par0779	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the articles of Article 8 of the International Labor Law Act 403, which is being discussed, be taken out of the text of the article (1), (2), (3), and (3), of the other jokes to be identified according to this. Baki Simsek (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0082par0788	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0081par0789	Mersin MP Baki Simsek who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0083par0792	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the motion issued on Article 8 of the International Labor Law Bill 403. I salute the nation of St. Turk and the Grand Assembly. Dear lawmakers, when we examine the bill, we see that the absence of professional qualifications and tax conditions for foreigners is in the interests of foreigners and against our own citizens. We don't think it's right for a country with so many unemployed engineers to have an understanding of how to employ foreign personnel. If we've got so many colleges, so many graduates, where's the trouble? Why don't we consider these graduates? Why don't we take care of our own people? We object to this practice as content. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I strongly condemn again the vile attempt against the will of the great Turkish nation to be a disgrace to our history of democracy on July 15th. The tank, which is taxed by this nation, will not forgive the Turkish nation and Turkish history the terrorists who bombed their own people by plane. We see that this coup attempt has three breaking points. One of them, and most importantly, to us, is that in the first moments when the planes were flying low and the news of the coup was reported, the leader of a political movement that suffered the most damage from impacts and tortures, our President-General Dr. State Gardenli, came to our headquarters to our headquarters, opened the party's lights, held a meeting with his staff, and stated that the government and Prime Minister were behind him and the coupists had broken their hopes. The second is that the First Army Commander invites Mr. President to Istanbul. The third and most important breaking point is that the Prime Minister and Mr. President want democracy to be claimed by inviting all of our political parties and citizens to the streets. Turkish people have claimed total democracy. As a result of the coup attempt, do not bring in the commanders of the General Staff during the raid. We ask God's mercy on our martyrs who lay in front of the tanks, along with our heroic Petty Officer Omar Halisdemir, who carried out his order. Dear lawmakers, Turkish nationalists have never questioned anything when it comes to the country. At the time before September 12th, when every population complained about Turkey's Human Rights Court and foreign countries, the country's biggest victim was the biggest torturer, the country's largest torturers never complained about the state of the Republic of Turkey. For years, the brilliant nationalist, archipelago, patriots have been excluded from bureaucracy, subjected to torture and accusations. What we expect from the state is that Turkish nationalists, who have been disinherited from state staffs for years, will be reinstated, their reputation restored. Of course, we demand that all of the coupkers be punished as severely as possible. In addition, we expect them not to be victimized or evacuated if they have committed one-on-one crime, all of them, two three months in custody and arrested today, only following their commander's instructions to serve the country, the nation. As Mr. President-in-Chief stated, first and foremost, military and civil bureaucracy and collective dismissals are expected to be based on solid evidence and documents. While these interrogations are being conducted, it's as dangerous as the cruelty of the terrorist organization to seize the rights of the innocent, to victimize innocent, innocent people. Another victim is the issue of public officials who are currently on the pilgrimage. Many of our citizens are looking for us. For those who want to go on a pilgrimage as a civil servant, the uncertainty remains. We expect this to be cleared up immediately and the immediate removal of this victimhood of the pilgrimage, a statement from the Ministry of Religious Affairs on this matter. Also, we are very happy to hear that the song "I'm dead" on television screens is sung by our people who have democracy in the squares. Concerning that, we expect the embargo on television to be removed. Yes, dear lawmakers, we will live as brothers and we will respect each other and we will keep tolerance and reconciliation alive. With these thoughts and feelings, I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0084par0806	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 9 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to add (i) bendi (i) to come after Article 9 (h) of the current Law Bill 403 rows (i). "there are those who do not comply with the rules of the occupational organisation concerned with other legislation concerning the 6235 Law. İdris Baluken Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Berdan Özturk Meral Danış Beştaş Ayhan Bilgen Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the nineth article (g) of the International Labor Law Bill 403 is changed in the following way and that the joke (i) be added after the (h) joke. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atıcı Ünal Demirtaş İstanbul Mersin Zonguldak ..."of the 7th and 9th Law of 6485" Turkey under its Articles It's about foreigners who have a problem with their work." "also given a negative opinion by the occupational organisation in accordance with the 6235 Law and other relevant legislation" Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0085par0829	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0084par0830	İstanbul MP Yakup Akkaya has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0086par0833	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the 9th article, titled rejection of the International Labor Law's application for employment. I salute you all with love and respect. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as a result of the July 15 coup attempt, I ask God's mercy once again for those who have lost their lives in the struggle for democracy, for their families, for our country, for our patience, for our condolences. I also salute all our citizens who have been on a democracy watch from that day forward. In addition, on July 24th, I salute the Republic and its achievements and democracy in the field of labor and freedom, and 1 million 200,000 citizens from here, from this Parliament once again. This shows that in every corner of our home, no matter what thought, no matter what view, we see in common, in common, in common, in terms of democracy, how our citizens, our nation, are bound together with each other. Millions of workers cried out in the area of division: "We did not win this country easily, but we will, of course, protect this country and the achievements of the republic together. " Dear lawmakers, we're discussing the International Labor Law Bill, and we've discussed it on the commissions. Of course, the economic crisis continues to increase, especially today, when economists say that the crisis will deepen as a result of the negative events that have taken place, especially during this process of unemployment, young unemployment, and the growing unemployment of university graduates, the discussion of the draft law on the work of foreigners and facilitating the work permits of the work will also burden the working life of Turkey. Of course, it may be beneficial for us to work in the country for those who are foreign, qualified, and who are contributing to the country, but it is not facilitating, it is best for qualified workers or occupations to work in this country. The amendments brought in with this bill state in this article the basis for the rejection of the application for a work permit. This arrangement includes different arrangements for the work permits of foreigners, which differ from the provisions of Article 14 of the Law. The most important change here is the ex-laws of the Turkish citizen's protective (b) joke. The country's entry into the work was arranged for the same person within four weeks, whose sentence (a) was lifted, not in accordance with the international labour force policy. This arrangement is not a protective arrangement for our unemployed and qualified citizens in Turkey. The heart would want to build a model in this country that is considered by our unemployed people who have applied to Turkey's Business Institution, but it hasn't been done. Again, the terms mentioned in this clause's (g) joke are very abstract concepts. The concepts of public order and public health are rather vague concepts. Under the principles of international resuscitation and equality regarding the work of foreigners, it would be more appropriate to replace these abstract and vague statements by the International Protection Act 6458, to cancel residence permits and regulations concerning visa procedures, in line with matter. Again, the new joke proposed by this article has not been arranged for foreigners who apply for either a work permit or an independent work permit -- within their own public law -- to have negative views of the engineering and architect's rooms. The new arrangement we propose here has also been arranged for the rejection of the application for a work permit. I mean, when we look at this bill from the outside, there's an arrangement on what conditions the permit will be cancelled, but here the vocational rooms are out of the scope of this law, and that's what's missing from us. Essentially, it would be best if qualified personnel' permissions of qualified employees were approved from their professional rooms. Once again, I offer the House their support on this matter, my love and respect to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0087par0843	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to add (i) bendi (i) to come after Article 9 (h) of the current Law Bill 403 rows (i). Those who do not abide by the rules of the occupational organisation concerned with other legislation related to the 6235 Law. Ayhan Bilgen (Kars) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0088par0853	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0087par0854	Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen is demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0089par0857	Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the 9th article, as the previous clerk made very clear, reveals a new framework for the rejection of the application for a work permit. We, of course, may need a new balance by clarifying the two ends. One of the two ends is the crisis of global capital and the attitude Turkey will take on this issue, its expectations. The second end, I think, is not to be hostile to strangers, but to look at the universal right to work, to create a balance that somehow maintains the protection of labor, especially on the basis of social benefits, by taking the axis. What is the motivation for this legal arrangement, for this new arrangement? So, there is a lack of qualified labor in Turkey, is it that we need a stretch to complete it, a stretch to fix it, or is there some barriers to the introduction of foreign capital to Turkey in particular, to overcome the challenges and to provide them with a facilitating basis? Of course, we know that the economy of Turkey -- let's make it a little more general -- that the Achilles heel of economies like Turkey is a hot entry of money, which means that the need for finance is especially encouraged by creating attractive conditions. How much work and how much work will we observe, how much will we protect, how much will we take into account the need in Turkey? I think this is where we split up. If we view labor as one of the elements of cost, and we see that the way for capital to make more money, and therefore to invest in one place, is to reduce its profit for other costs, so if we see it in cheap labor, we see that labor is more objectively addressed in competition -- as a subject -- yes, the logic of this law is very understandable, very persuasive. But if you're looking at life with more capital-based, more capitalist development, not in terms of human-based, human-based, sweat, labor, values, social benefit, you have to look at some of the brake mechanisms. When you look at the world's truly fingered developmental countries, especially when they were destroyed in World War II, but now I think the world's most competitive, but the working conditions are more human, you can see very clearly: there's a model. So, there's talk of a Japanese development model, a German development model. I'm putting aside other extreme development models, so I'm putting aside more state-of-the-art or more ultra liberal models. Do we have a model like that? First of all, for a model to have, I think you need to have a consistent, as little populist, realistic, practical perspective as possible. Now, on the one hand, we're making arrangements, facilitating arrangements to encourage global capital, but on the other hand -- we've watched it last night, we've watched it for a couple of days, and they're probably going to be some political representatives on television today -- we're dealing with an international relationship, international commitments, agreements, a challenge that's ready to be suspended at any moment, so we can get out of the Council of Europe, and it doesn't matter. Now, if you're performing in politics, if you're performing in a country that's so unpredictable in politics, so unpredictable in tomorrow, if you're carrying that in political language, then we can't manage to draw capital with such regulations and so on. Dear friends, I think the biggest risk in politics, the biggest danger, is getting to the right point between these populist approaches, which is convincing the public and being realistic and being responsible. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0090par0863	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 10 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the International Labor Law Bill, 403 rows in question, shall be changed in (1), (6) and (7) as follows. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş In the event of positive assessment of the application, the foreigner will be granted a valid work permit for the first application for a year, provided that he does not exceed the deadline of the contract of employment or service, the real or legal person, except for the public institution or its institutions, or at a specific workplace or at the same workplace. "It is possible for professional foreigners to be allowed to work independently as long as the specific conditions specified in other laws are provided and the relevant vocational room has a positive view." "7) In the assessment of independent labour permits in accordance with international labour policy, the foreign residence in Turkey for at least five years is legal and uninterrupted; the level of education, professional experience, contribution to science and technology, the impact of its activity in Turkey or investment in the country's economy and employment impact, while the foreign company partner is the capital share of the International Business Policy Council and other issues that will be determined by the Ministry, provided it is limited to its recommendations and its employment." Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the current Law Bill 403 be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Sibel Yiğılalp Behçet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Berdan Özturk Osman Baydemir Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0091par0886	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0090par0887	Şanlıurfa MP Osman Baydemir wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0092par0890	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I remember and cherish and honor all my fellow citizens, all my brothers, who died after the junta initiative. They have a great and precious legacy that they have left to this country and this country's future, and there is no doubt that it has a responsibility, a responsibility, a responsibility to be worthy of it. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to draw your attention once again, not too much, but a year before that. So, in that one-year period, when we addressed you on this bench in Parliament, we tried to express to you that illegal organizations within the state, the resources of the state within the state, the position of those in possession of the individual, are in some places, and sometimes they abuse it, they abuse it. To be honest, either we couldn't explain it or we couldn't make our voices heard. Surely good things can come from an affliction. In addition to this possibility, we have a responsibility to make a great deal of good out of this great plague. And with that dignity, let's remember all the civilians, all the innocents, all the people who have died of state violence in the last year of time, and let's say that if we don't have democracy all the time, there could be risks like this. So I think it's time to face reality, it's place, it's place. In this minival, in addition to the language we've used so far, we all have this responsibility to produce a new language, a new style. Thank God the coup was eliminated, but the risk remains. We are now dealing with perhaps the greatest internal provocations in our history. The coup and coup mechanism first and foremost breed on the antidemocratic floor, the coup and coup mechanisms breed and grow in the atmosphere of conflict. So the first and most urgent step in fighting coup d'etat, the coup mechanism, is to build a non-combat country, a non-conflict society. In the last year period, each political party, including us, has to review its stance, which must implement a new reading. With common sense, if we can build peace inside and out, as a whole, we'll have the ability to deal with impact mentality, impact mechanics. Respected lawmakers, there's one other thing we should not miss when we're dealing with the coup and coup mechanism, which is accusing an innocent person of blunt force. Before I came here, I visited Dicle Fırat College in Diyarbakır. One of the first to be taken into custody and the first to be tortured was confiscated if he had suffered a blow all his life. The school has been handed over to the National Education Directorate. Therefore, we will not be able to produce democracy from a system where age and drought will burn. With that dignity, while fighting a coup, we must not resort to any illegal methods, not to turn it into a drag hunt or a witch hunt. That's one of the things democracy has ordered us to do. I see it and I am pleased to discuss it with you now that Congress is listening to each other, political parties listening to each other, preachers listening to each other. Here's how it's going to be permanent, that it's going to become a democratic culture, that it's going to be a citizen's behavior, that we have to build social peace, we have to face our problems, we have to face our attitudes, and we have to bequeath a bright future to society. And the people did their duty, and stood before the tank, and stood against the ball, and did their duty, and stood up against the violence. He is now in Parliament, now in political parties, and is now in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with opposition to the mandate. My deepest regards.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0093par0898	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the International Labor Law Bill, 403 rows in question, shall be changed in (1), (6) and (7) as follows. With all due respect. In the event of positive assessment of the application, the foreigner will be granted a valid work permit for the first year's application, provided that he does not exceed the deadline of the employment or service contract, with the exception of a real or legal institution or institutions, at a specific workplace of his or her own, or at a job in the same workplace." "It is possible for professional foreigners to be allowed to work independently as long as the specific conditions specified in other laws are provided and the relevant vocational room has a positive view." "7) In the assessment of independent labour permits in accordance with international labour policy, the foreign residence in Turkey for at least five years is legal and uninterrupted; the level of education, professional experience, contribution to science and technology, the impact of its operation in Turkey or investor's country economy and employment impact, while the foreign company partner is a share of capital and other issues shall be considered by the Ministry on condition that it is limited by sectors and business council proposals." The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we disagree. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0094par0911	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0093par0912	On the motion, Mr. Aytuğ Thrower, MP of Mersin, will speak. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0095par0915	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a pledge on the 10th Amendment of the International Labor Law. I salute the lawmakers who do not push others forward to avoid political responsibility, who do not seek the word games to hide their former actions, and who do not seek the word games, whether they are soldiers or civilians, and who do the coup, no matter who it comes from. Dear friends, now our concerns about the 10th article will be made clear. What does the government bring in Article 10? It says: "If a stranger comes to my country, I can employ this stranger in public institutions for less than a year. Note that I can work in public institutions for a year." Well, the fourth article of the same bill says that if I have trusted enough to grant a permanent work permit, I will block the right to enter public service this time, and they will not serve. Now, there's a very serious contradiction here and a disrespect to our citizens. We say to a person who comes in for a year, who comes in for a temporary job, who we don't know better: "Come, work anywhere in the government office." We also say to a person whom we've looked at enough to give him a permanent work permit, who we trust enough to give him an indefinitely working permit, we say: "You can't enter the state." So, what do we say? We say we want respect for our own citizens. First of all, we want our own citizens to be placed in government offices, temporary, permanent. Of course, our desire is their constant work, but if it's even temporary, we don't want strangers, we want our children to come in here. Well, that's what our motion brings. I don't know how you're going to say no to him now. We say no foreigners in public institutions should be employed, but if they're citizens, I can't tell them anything. But if you're going to hire someone somewhere, we're going to say in item six, you're going to get a room view. So take a room view to see if this person can actually do the job and show our respect for our citizens together. So, we don't show enough respect for our citizens here; do we show respect for this coup attempt and the extraordinary decision prepared behind it? No, we're not. Dear friends, yes, we've all condemned the coup attempt, but we've struggled to avoid a state of emergency. All the opposition parties all said together, let's do whatever you want with the coup, because we know the state of emergency. We know that the state of emergency isn't a good thing. We know that your extraordinary state brings us pain, grief, tears, and grief. That's why we defied the extraordinary with all our might, and you didn't listen. From the moment the state of emergency came to pass, we began to mourn. We've given up our beard reactively, and every person who sees us, no, why do you have a beard? Why do you have a beard? We're reacting, we're grieving, we're holding it up in advance. And unfortunately, we're right. Now, I see they're rounding up the teachers. Friends, let's gather the members of the terrorist organization together, but why gather the poor? Why in God's name would you round up academics without question? Every day we face the cries of many people. My cousin's a teacher, you took away the boy I raised with my bare hands. Friends, a little wisdom, a little conscience. If you do not know the difference between the right and the wrong, We will separate them from each other. We have to separate the curve from the right. If we don't do this, the plague of this is too great. Finally, at the end of your 14 years of power, you could see that the coups were coming one step at a time. You finally understood the coups to destroy the patriarch, secular, democratic Republic of Turkey. Only the Ataturkers didn't deceive you, they didn't deceive you. Please perceive this and we'll stop this slaughter together. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0096par0924	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 10 has been accepted. There's a motion on Article 11 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following jokes be added to Article 11 of the International Labor Law Bill 403, which is currently in session. First Light Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Aytuğ Thrower İdris Bauken Mehmet Doğan Kubat Tülay Kaynarca In the application of Turkuaz Cards, those who have internationally accepted studies in academic areas and those who have stepped up in a field considered strategic in science, industry and technology, or those who have contributed importantly to the national economy as exports, employment or investment capacity. (6) These clause provisions do not apply to foreigners provided temporary protection." Is the commission in? Sir, we're leaving it up to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0097par0941	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0096par0942	I'm reading the reason: Under the change, Turkuaz Card was enabled to clarify its description of the quality of the foreigners to be used, and to avoid the use of turquoise card for qualified foreigners who are under temporary protection. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 11th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article has been accepted. There's a motion on Article 12 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th article of the International Labor Law Bill, 403 rows in question, shall be changed to (3) the following way. First Light Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Aytuğ Thrower Tülay Kaynarca Mehmet Doğan Kubat İdris Baluken "The rights provided by Turkey with bilateral or multilateral agreements can be limited by the condition of remaining hidden and the principle of reciprocity, the situation in the business market and the improvements in working life, the sectoral and economic conjunctural conditions of employment, for a certain period of time, as well as by agriculture, industry or service sectors, a particular profession, business or property and geographical area." Does the commission agree with the motion? Sir, we're leaving it up to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0098par0960	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0096par0961	I'm reading the reason: Protection of its current state has been assessed due to the need for the authority of the Council of Ministers specified in the Law on Foreign Affairs Permissions of No. 4817. I submit to your votes the joint motion of the groups: those who accept... those who refuse... are unanimous. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 12th article has been accepted. There are three motions on Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article (3) of Article 13 of the International Labor Law Bill 403, which is currently in session, be identified according to the text. Spiritual Ersoy Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Open his Mind Osmaniye Antalya Sakarya Mustafa Kalajcı Erhan Usta İsmail Aksu To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 13 (7) of Law Bill 403 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel İdris Bauken Sibel Yiğitalp Berdan Özturk Meral Danış Beştaş Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13 of the International Labor Law Bill 403 be changed in (1) and (7) in the following way. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş "One) Strangers who are listed in the shafts below and are covered by a work permit exemption can work on the condition that they receive a work permit exemption. The provisions set in the special laws remain hidden and that the foreign and the employer meet their obligations due to other laws; a) those who are exempted from working permit with bilateral or multilateral agreements that Turkey is a party to, B) The permanent residences of foreigners who will be abroad for less than a month for scientific, cultural and artistic activities, with less than four months to come to Turkey for sporty activities, C) The assembly of the machine and equipment imported to Turkey, maintenance and repair, training for its use, or delivering the equipment, or repair the vehicles that have been malfunctioned in Turkey; a total of three months from the date of entry to Turkey, if necessary to prove the situation within a year, ) In the interest of education in the use of goods or services imported to Turkey from Turkey, the people in Turkey will not exceed three months in a year's time of entry to Turkey and will be able to prove this with documents that they will declare, D) The exhibition and circuses, which will operate outside the borders of documented tourism enterprises, under the condition of six months from the date of entry to Turkey, and to prove the situation, e) By proving his condition with documents not to exceed the two years of education, and by proving that he is in a position to extend his knowledge and manners to universities and public institutions, f) In a period of no more than six months on socio-cultural and technological fields and education, the authorities have reported that they can provide important services and contributions to Turkey, G) During the programme of future foreigners, as part of programmes run by the European Union Centre for Education and Youth Programmes (National Agents), Ü) The Ministry, the Ministry, the Ministry of Interior and Foreign Affairs and foreign students will be interned under international student programmes agreed upon by the Office of Higher Education and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. H) The tour operator's representative who has arrived in Turkey in less than eight months, I) During the contracts of foreign football players and other athletes, whose demands are appropriate by the Turkish Football Federation or the National Directorate for Youth and Sports, According to the International Convention on the Education, Documentation and Shift Standards of the ship's men, under the rules of the International Contract I/10, the two-procedural protocols have been carried out by the relevant administration to the Turkish International Ship's Register, which has received the "Act of Appliance of Compliance" "J) Foreign experts assigned to projects conducted under the European Union's Financial Co-operation Programmes do not need to be allowed to work during their duties." "7) The cross-border service server, whose activities in Turkey have not exceeded 90 days in less than a hundred and eighty days, are considered under the immunity of work permits." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0099par1006	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0096par1007	Izmir MP Ali Yiğit asking for a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Hero.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0100par1010	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 13 of the International Labor Law. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we are going through a very important process because there are deep concerns, fears, and concerns in the hearts of every conscientious citizen about the future of our country. In fact, our country has survived one of the harshest, most dire threats in its history. However, the threat and danger have yet to pass because the main body is still in place. No doubt, there have been great tribulations in the past. But these problems, these problems, they don't make any sense in the face of the deep break that we're living in and out of today. Of course, the 14-year AKP administration has no responsibility alone, and the policies followed after the 1980 coup have a major impact. We, as a party, have tried to draw attention to it for years, but unfortunately it has always been ignored, and institutions and organizations have been wiped out by fabricated scenarios; many patriots who have seen the painting, especially military and judicial members, have been removed from duty, have been sent to prisons, and at the very last point, 15-16 July coup attempt. Now, happily, this danger has been eliminated, and everyone's talking about self-criticism. Yeah, it's time for self-criticism. In the beginning, all parties, including the AKP, must put their hats in front of it and think, "Where did we go wrong?" I'm not saying this to make it polemic, I'm saying this so it doesn't happen again. In this regard, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey also has great responsibilities and duties. The parliamentary research commission, established yesterday with the initiative of four parties, is a very valid and meaningful step in this direction. However, it should not be satisfied, if necessary, in a closed session, the July 15th coup attempt should be discussed with all its connections and extensions. Everyone must shed the stones at their feet, question the background of the coup attempt. The Veteran Parliament, which has bravely resisted this attempt, must act actively in the process outside a joint declaration, taking responsibility for a new road map. Because there are many points of enlightenment that remain in the dark about this coup attempt. On the other hand, after this coup attempt on history as a black mark, the government has declared its coup attempt on its own, as if it belongs to them alone. This is a violation of the will of the Veteran Assembly to stand up to the coup. It's also political rudeness to parties that stick together around democracy. What is it that the government wants to do right now and can't? Is Parliament, the only body in the face of the coup, incapable of producing solutions, which is weak? As the threat continues, while traumas continue, the most important agenda should be democracy, while we are here discussing the Bill of the Labor Law. And for him, I don't think the assessment of the bill should be on today's agenda. But I'm still going to try to convey my views on the bill that was brought to us as a compromise. Dear lawmakers, in the past, at some point, I started a company abroad, and I tried so hard just to get a visa from that company, but I couldn't get a residence permit, so I couldn't get a work permit. I could only get a visa by forcing it. We provide all kinds of opportunities here. So we're saying you're immune to almost anything, let alone visas, like our citizen. They shouldn't be in and out of this country so easily, not acting like citizens of this country. Imagine that an anonymous company has hundreds of partners. So if you provide all sorts of freedoms, including seating and work permits for all hundreds of partners, that's not true, this could turn into even bigger abuses, problems. Clearly, there is a need for restrictive provisions. With these thoughts, I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0101par1020	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13 (7) of Law Bill 403 be removed from the draft text. Berdan Ozturk and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0102par1028	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0101par1029	Ağrı MP Berdan Ozturk who wants a word on the motion...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0103par1030	Özcan Bey was born with light on his face.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0104par1031	Ezcan Bey is lighting the light. He says Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0101par1032	Mr. Ozcan is lighting up our coven with his light. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0105par1035	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the removal of Article 13 (7) of Law Bill 403, which is being discussed from the bill. I salute the General Assembly. The relevant joke allows an individual to receive a work permit before coming to Turkey with the exemption given to foreign partners by anonymous companies established in Turkey. This right, given unfair initiative, is contrary to the principle of equality, but violates the spirit of the law. The technical staff and engineers of other countries will operate in our country without any supervision or control. Moreover, those who come to Turkey can work from afar and without paying taxes, while those who come to the country will be exempted from taking a work permit and residence permit. Each year, 51,000 people in our country graduate from engineering, architect and urban planning. Over 100,000 engineers, architects and city planners are unemployed. Therefore, I would like to stress that it is necessary to remove this clause from the draft text. Mr. President, it would be a great injustice not to mention Nusaybin on the stand. This ancient city, one of the oldest cities in Mesopotamia, where the world's first university was founded, is now in ruins. As of today, the blockade has entered its 135th day in Nusaybin, where the government destroyed six neighborhoods with its tank. This city, where the ban is partially lifted, is surrounded by fences. The inside of Nusaybin, which is already surrounded by barbed wire on three sides, is surrounded by six feet of steel fences. It is insincerely insincere to say that those who cry to Gaza do not mind the images that lead Gaza to mercy. Surround a county for a hundred and thirty-five days; it's not enough; it's also an enemy law, surrounded by fences. Six neighborhoods from 15 neighborhoods are banned from entering with high fences. The 6 neighborhoods in question are nearly half of Nusaybin. Before the blockade, he knows that about 40,000 people lived in these neighborhoods and left the city because of the blockade. All of these people have migrated to other villages, including Kızıltepe, Midyat and Mardin. They've been treated like refugees on their own land. How will you bear this shame? People who want to return can't return because their neighborhoods are banned and there is no rental home in Nusaybin. The number of dwellings in Nusaybin does not have the means to meet the current situation, and the governor's office does not allow setting up tents. In the 6 off-limits neighborhoods, business machines are now working hard for destruction. Who handles debris removal in burned-down neighborhoods? What companies were the tenders given to? Why are solid homes being destroyed, and most importantly, when do you plan to open the neighborhoods you surround with fences? It is estimated that about 9,000 families are now homeless in Nusaybin. The tradesmen's shops are in ruins. We also know that when we calculated the workplaces between the fenced neighborhoods, most of the Nusaybin's businesses had lost their jobs. We ask the government, "What do you intend to do for our tradesmen?" At the point of bringing containers to our fellow MPs who are there, to find a temporary solution to the situation of the people living in fenced neighborhoods in Nusaybin, they had talks with the governor, and he said that he was willing to give it to the governor. Containers will be a temporary solution for our people living in six restricted neighborhoods in the first place. In this matter, I call upon the government immediately, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0106par1046	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article (3) of Article 13 of the International Labor Law Bill 403, which is currently in session, be identified according to the text. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0107par1054	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0106par1055	İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0108par1058	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 13 of the International Labor Law Bill. I salute the General Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. At the beginning of my speech, I curse the coup attempt on the night of July 15th. I wish God's mercy on our fallen martyrs, and an urgent healing for the wounded. On the night of July 15th, democracy was asked for shackles and coups, and the nation's will was apparently attacked and assassinated. The Turkish nation was stabbed in the heart with the intention of our country's kneeling and total destruction of the national entity. The bombing of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a terrible and terrifying betrayal, a bloody terrorist attack. This asshole is undoubtedly targeting the entire Turkish nation. Democracy is overturned, the black spot that wants to be driven to national will is again blocked by the determination and determination of the nation. At the last moment, the Turkish Nation ripped apart the shroud of its existence. In our opinion, no excuse can be based on the failure of democracy, armed intervention, and the longing for an intermediary. As a matter of fact, the National Movement Party and its leader, State Gardenian, from the first time it became as dull and odorless as water, declared that a possible attempt was unacceptable, that we were opposed to any non-democratic search, that those who attempted the coup should surrender immediately to the law, without saying, "But," without saying, "Would it benefit us, would something fall into our stock?" This attitude is a manifestation of an unwavering principle, a stance, and a leadership that represents commitment to national will and democracy. This attitude is the result of the politics of the nationalist movement based on the standing of the Turkish nation and Turkish state, democracy, human rights and rule of law. The National Movement Party argues that democracy should be run not only as a political regime but also as a way of life as a guarantee of the rule of law, human dignity, opinion, initiative, religion and conscience, but also by all institutions and rules of democracy in social and political relations. He believes that sovereignty in parliamentary democracies is the nation, that the legitimacy of political powers is based on national will, that the place where the national will is established is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, that all interference in democratic regimes and constitutional powers is illegitimate and unacceptable, no matter what reason or reason. On the other hand, it is necessary for authorities to be sensitive about preventing new attempts to create polarisations from this treacherous attempt, which would lead to the complete investigation of the Turkish Armed Forces and the disproportionation of Mehmetdjik (Kedchik) in the process, and not to be confused between the oppressed and the traitor in the state of emergency, not to be confused by rights and justice. In the process, it is imperative that Turkey be exposed first, first the Turkish nation, first the Turkish nation, first the Turkish nation. Those who do not say "Turkish country" should be exposed. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that although the high-qualified labour force migration towards our country has made it necessary to make new arrangements for foreign work permits, the issue is not in line with the facts of such optimism. With the bill, essentially, our country's employment space will be opened to foreigners indefinitely, while some conditions for Turkish citizens will not be required from foreigners. This is an injustice to hundreds of thousands of unemployed Turkish youth, Turkish citizens. In this case, the state's priority should be to develop additional employment opportunities for its citizens, to take effective measures to combat unemployment and poverty; to implement the chain of investment, production and employment in a healthy way. As a matter of fact, the youth unemployment rate is still more than 16 per cent in our country. There are thousands of trained, educated, appointed labor forces in our country. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0109par1069	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Mr. Gürer, I'll give you a minute according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0110par1076	Thank you, Mr. President. In Bor district of Niğde, six of our workers died as a result of a train hit by a van carrying our workers. My condolences to their families, I share their pain. I would like to stress the need for solutions, as well as problems of road and carelessness, to prevent such accidents from happening in our country. Again, I share the pain of all our workers. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0111par1081	Thank you. We also offer our condolences. May God have mercy on all our brothers and sisters who have lost their lives. We offer our condolences to your relatives. Yeah, the sun lit it up again, the 15th of July. Let's hope we all come out of this together and we'll all come out of it as a blessing. Now, there's a joint motion on Article 14 that I'm going to read, I'm going to process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the International Labor Law Bill 403 be removed from the draft text. First Eyünür Eyçütüç Öğtücı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor İdris Bauken Murat Alparslan Ramazan Can Does the commission agree with the motion? Sir, we're leaving it up to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0112par1101	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit01spe0111par1102	I'm reading the reason: The evaluation of the majority of the bill has been assessed that it is not mandatory for the application to be applied for a work permit on the basis of voluntary application in the current situation. Yes, I submit to your votes the joint motion that I have given the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... are unanimous. The 14th article was removed from the text in accordance with the adopted motion. Yes, I'm going to interrupt the merger for the first time since yesterday at the request of our groups. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0111par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 403 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Members of the Council of Ministers, the 14th Article has been removed from the Commission's text in accordance with the motion adopted on the 14th Article. We continue to discuss the current clauses of the Commission's text so as not to cause any confusion. Article numbers will be identified during the writing of the law. Again, the clauses of the bill, which will be discussed later, will be corrected during the drafting of the law. Mr. Commission, do you have anything to say? Here you go. Mr. President, you have to redact the reference of the bill under the 14th article, which has just been issued from the draft text under the joint motion. I present to you your knowledge and your appreciation. Thank you. This will be considered during the written law. We're moving on to item 15. There are two motions on the 15th article, and I'm having them read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the decimal be removed from the draft text following the declaration of "work permit" (b) of the 15th article of the current 403 rows. İdris Bauken Behcet Yıldırım Osman Baydemir Now I'm going to read the most anti-matter motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of Article 15 of the 403 International Labor Law Bill, which is being discussed, shall be changed as follows. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytüğ Atı Burcu Koksal Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Çetin Arık In accordance with the principle of reciprocity, the diplomatic and intellectual representations of foreign countries in Turkey;" Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0113par0031	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0111par0032	Afyonkarahisar MP Burcu Koksal wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0114par0035	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 15th Amendment of the Law Bill 403. Firstly, because I took my first pledge on the parliamentary stand after July 15th, I curse the coup attempt by the Å terrorist organization, those who attempted this coup, those who aided and abetted. I salute all political parties, our people, the police force and the soldiers of Mustafa Kemal, who stand firm in the face of this initiative, inside and outside the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I wish God's mercy to our citizens who lost their lives during the coup attempt, and an immediate healing to the wounded. We're talking about this bill that legalises the import of labor power in our country, where unregistered teachers, paramedics, college graduates, unemployed teenagers live. The government's duty is to present the best working and living conditions to its citizens. Today, when our own citizens are unemployed, especially when the number of refugees from Syria is over 3 million, it makes sense to discuss foreign employment on this council bench. The government's job is to solve the unemployment problem in our country, provide jobs for our citizens. Instead of solving this problem, however, it is wrong to open the door to foreign employment and create unfair competition for unemployed people in Turkey. For God's sake, first give our unemployed people in Turkey a job. Let's give social security and rights to our workers who work without insurance, under-the-stairs, without any social security. Tens of people from my constituency, Afyonkarahisar, call me for work every day, and unfortunately, they can't get a job at public institutions because they don't have enough pull. In recruitment, it should be based on merit rather than on criteria such as the daughter of an uncle, the son of an uncle, the member of my congregation, and our foundation. If there is no integrity in the state, terrorist organizations, such as the virus, will go down to the capillaries of the state and attempt to spread and destroy the republic at its most critical points. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We know that many of our citizens have had merit, but unfortunately they have not been hired in public institutions and institutions because of their opinion. Because of the inhuman practices of our military schools, our young people have been forced to say goodbye to their favorite schools, including their victims. Please, let's be objective in hiring, let's give the job to the competent. We don't want to pay the price as a country very heavily. There's a community we know of, and that's the community of the people without a political party to look out for. So from now on, let no congregation, foundation, cult, society, and association be given any more concessions except the mosque congregation, and let no man be favoured. For what it's worth, this Veterans Assembly was falling on our heads because of the congregation that was once compromised. We don't want to go through this again. So we're saying that if there's no integrity in the state, there'll be terrorist organizations like Å. In any criteria we take from now on, let the hiring be based on merit. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0115par0045	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the decimal be removed from the draft text following the declaration of "work permit" (b) of the 15th article of the current 403 rows. Behcet Yıldırım (Adıyaman) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Sir, we're leaving it up to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0116par0053	We'll take it.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0115par0054	The motion is accepted, there is no need to speak, Mr. Behcet. The government and the Commission agree with your motion.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0117par0055	Let's get him to read the motive.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0115par0056	I'm reading the reason: With this change, the material text is intended to be more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is unanimous. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 15th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 16th article of the International Labor Law Bill (b) of 403 rows in question be removed (h) from the text of matter and (c) and (g) be replaced in the following way. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Çetin Arik Hüseyin Çayak The end of his work legally (also known as the end of his work) ▪ Statement of the judicial decision issued by public institutions and organisations concerned that public order, public safety or public health may be a problem for working in Turkey, has been reported to the ministry as part of the application. I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that Article 16 of the current Law Bill 403 be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel İdris Bauken Sibel Yiğitalp Berdan Özturk Meral Danış Beştaş Aycan İrmez Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we disagree. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0118par0081	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0115par0082	Şırnak MP Aycan İrmez has asked for a statement on the proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0119par0085	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group to discuss Article 16 of the Common Law Bill 403. I salute the General Assembly. With this clause, the validity of a work permit exemption is completely isolated. A foreigner who has received a work permit exemption can be revoked without a valid reason. With this arrangement, the ability of foreigners to work will be subject to arbitrary practices in the interests of political power. Unfortunately, with the recent war in our country, especially in the Kurdistan region, on July 24, 2015, the current government's coup attempt, the TSK members have shown us that the state continues to have a political crisis in this direction. Today, the curfew of Şırnak province has entered its 135th day. I observed there for a hundred and twenty-six days. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to contact any authorities there. For a hundred and twenty-six days there, our people, the people of Şırnak, suffered many sacrifices. The people of Şırnak have a population of up to 70,000, but unfortunately the practices and attacks were so brutal and barbaric that the people couldn't accommodate themselves in their own homeland. We have found that, unfortunately, when it comes to Kurds, state practices have nothing to do with the 1990s... with the mentality of Turkey today in the 1990s, with the same practices and mentalitys of Turkey 2016, with which this ban is being continued in the province of Şırnak is much more victimised by our people. We've been screaming here many times, shouting in the streets over and over again. Today the city, the tanks, the cannons, the obuses -- we saw it the other day -- was turned into a public attack on the West as well. But with the public's initiative there, the prevention of the coup attempt... Yeah, you always said democracy won, it's true. But this democracy shouldn't just be for the western people. This democracy, this justice, this equality should be for the Kurds, for the Kurds and for the Kurdish people. One hundred twenty-six days in Şırnak, really, as I said, those violent and barbaric practices... I mean, imagine if there was a city in the West or a coup attempt -- that coup -- God knows what we'd be going through right now, and we'd know. We are now in the Kurdistan region witnessing this kind of war on our own. Our people have been victimized there, but one day the ruling party has come to Şırnak and has not heard or considered the problems of the people living in the tents, in the tents, in the tents, in the trellises, in the parliament.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0120par0093	I'm home. You're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0119par0094	We didn't see you. Where did you go?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0120par0095	It's the first time I've seen you, too.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0119par0096	Have you come to the tents? Have you come to the Kumcat?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0120par0097	I've come to Kumcat.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0119par0098	Have you ever seen what our people were going through, what the children were going through, what the women were going through? No.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0120par0099	Yes, we know very well what the PKK did.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0119par0100	We're fed up with this kind of stuff.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0120par0101	This is the first time I've seen you.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0119par0102	It's not the first time you've seen me.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0120par0103	Have you been to the House before?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0119par0105	I've always been here, I've always been in the area, among my people.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0121par0106	You look here.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0120par0107	I was among my people. I'm with my brothers from Şırnak.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0122par0108	Please, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0123par0109	His problems are one-on-one.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0120par0110	I was there, I know. Tell me the truth.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0124par0111	Let's not interfere, Mr. Kavakci, please.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0123par0112	Yes, Mr. President, it would be much better if you told me. To end immediately the practices that have been introduced in Şırnak against law, morality and human values for months...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0125par0114	What Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) did in Şırnak...
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0123par0115	In addition, Ahmet Çakırsüt Brigade Commander Ali Osman Gürcan and Şırnak Commander Abdullah Baysar of the 23rd Border Division are currently in Şırnak Type T Closed Ceeza house on charges of coup attempt. We hope we can once again emphasize that these individuals, the coupgers, have to be tried because of these inhumane accusations against Şırnak. We'd like to make a separate statement to the government. We'd like to make a request. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We demand that the curfew of Şırnak be lifted as soon as possible and end the people's persecution.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0126par0120	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 16th article of the International Labor Law Bill (b) of 403 rows in question be removed (h) from the text of matter and (c) and (g) be replaced in the following way. With all due respect. Hussain Pineak (Mersin) and his friends The end of his work legally (also known as the end of his work) ▪ Statement of the judicial decision issued by public institutions and organisations concerned that public order, public safety or public health may be a problem for working in Turkey, has been reported to the ministry as part of the application. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0127par0131	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0126par0132	Mersin MP Hüseyin Çanaak will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Pineak.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0128par0135	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the International Labor Law Bill, 403 rows. I hereby salute the members of the House, the media workers, the citizens who follow us, and the Grand Assembly. When we look at this bill, it turns out that the structure of important trade organisations such as the engineering and architect's room is based on the demands of foreign capital. Before making such radical changes to the institutional code of these units, it is a great flaw to ignore the objections of the relevant rooms in the commission phase, and to ignore their views. This bill clearly and clearly gives foreign engineers and architects the advantage of architects and engineers in our country. With this bill, there will be no control or rules for foreigners to serve or work in our country. Engineering, architecture services will again pay the price for the catastrophes and destructions that can be caused by people who have no control, no control, no adequate training, and no professional experience. On the other hand, this is not just about the state of the current professional experts; it is about the future of 435,000 students who have graduated on average 51,000 years and already studied engineering, architecture. In the event of legislation, millions of our citizens, engineers, architects, city planners, our friends will face the danger of current employment problems, major exploitation, unemployment, professional shortfall. It also ignores the risk of the quality of production and of human life that foreign workers are considered a qualified labour force based on a simple statement, which does not prove academic or professional competency, which is not sought for a degree equivalency. When we look at the critical clauses in this bill, the principle of reciprocity in international law seems to be ignored, an unfair competition in favour of foreign capital and foreign employees. In our country, labor exploitation will be concentrated, and our country's dependency will be increased by this practice, which will make our local engineers, architects, city planners in its own country into a second-class, cheap labor force. Congressmans, democracy is the focus of all of this. It's been understood from the recent events of democracy in our country. Closing the democracy gap should be our first priority. Democracy is about establishing social peace. It is possible to manage, to maintain order, without respect for someone else's freedom, the opinion of the different one, but it is impossible to achieve social peace in this way. True democracy aims to avoid any kind of custody, especially military custody. What has happened since July 15th has opened a door for social peace and democracy to come forward, and hopefully this door will not be closed by power and will lead to a great awakening. So far, the opposition has given a good test, and the ruling community has given the impression that it is beginning to move away from the first angry response. I hope this doesn't lead to a major regime of detention and oppression, and I hope the State of Emergency doesn't turn out to be normal. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0129par0142	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 17th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 17 of the International Labor Law Bill 403, which is currently in session, be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Çetin Arık Serdal Külcuoğlu "Aligners whose work permit can be given as an exception MADDE 17- Unless the two-sided or multilateral agreements where Turkey sided otherwise; A) Married to a Turkish citizen and living in a marriage union with his wife in Turkey or the marriage union ended after at least three years, but the foreigners settled in Turkey and their Turkish citizen's children, B) Under Articles 19, 27 and 28 of Turkish Citizenship Act 5901, those who have lost Turkish citizenship and the füruuna of them, C) To foreigners born in Turkey, born or without their national law, who have come to Turkey without the age of ignominy according to Turkish legislation, and who have graduated from vocational school, higher school or university, D) According to House Law 2510, to foreigners considered as immigrants, refugees or nomads, e) European Union member states citizens and their spouses and children who are not citizens of European Union member states, f) A diplomat in the Turkish embassies and consulates of foreign states and representatives of international institutions, and the spouses and children of foreign and administrative and technical staff who have been assigned to Turkish embassies, consulates and representatives of international organisations and to the spouses and children of their spouses and technical staff, who have been assigned to Turkey to serve under the principle of reciprocity and to remain within the scope of the mandate. g) To foreigners who will temporarily come to Turkey over a month for scientific and cultural activities and over four months for sporty activities, H) To key staffed foreigners who will be employed in the work of law-sanctioned ministries and public institutions, contracting or contracting services in the form of contracts or tenders, making a business or running a facility, I) to foreign and homeless persons who have applied for international protection and who have been granted conditional refugee status by the Ministry of the Interior, j) To qualified foreigners who will contribute to our country's development in science, technology, RD, innovation and design, This Law can be granted a work permit without the mandate." I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 17 of the Law Bill 403 be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Berdan Özturk Meral Danış Beştaş Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0130par0176	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0129par0177	Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0131par0180	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on the 17th Amendment of the 403 rows we are discussing. When we look at this, there's a law that refers to a soy family, and it's in the spirit of this time, and it's still in this period of time, to highlight an ethnic identity, to provide working conditions, or to provide citizenship through an ethnic identity, in the spirit of the present, that's not appropriate because people are neither superior nor superior because of what they're born with. So the race that he's brought in, the gene that he lives in, the gene that he carries doesn't make a difference, it doesn't create an advantage, it doesn't become a reward, it doesn't become another. But when you look at it, there's only one soy reference, one law against other nations, other beliefs, or different ethnic identity. We, as a party based on the life of every individual at equal distance, every faith, every difference, every ethnic identity, are not legally, ethically, morally, and humanly correct. Because no human being has a superior quality, and I insist on repeating it over and over again, because these ethnic differences are now becoming a language of superiority and superiority policy. This policy of superiority is now the basis of the nation's state. That's why Şırnak, Nusaybin, Sur are still being bombarded with tanks, cannons. Our friend just told us that our Şırnak MP has been there for four months, telling the truth about what they've been going through for four months -- it can never be expressed. A policy is implemented through a very heavy, very inhuman, extremely ethnic language, through an ethnic definition. If we're still creating a law on ethnic emphasis in such chaotic environments right now, then we haven't really learned from July 15th. The fact that we don't learn from this July 15th will lead us to a greater chaos, a greater depression, and perhaps the days we'll be looking for. Now, it's important to say that being a citizen of Turkey here is enough. It's just an ethnic language that we, as a party, reject the fact that only one ethnic belonging has been expressed, and we believe that all ethnic differences should be accepted as citizens of the Republic of Turkey and should be a reference to it, and that's why we put it in our hands. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0132par0186	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 17 of the International Labor Law Act 403, which is being discussed in the following way. With all due respect. Serdal Külcuoğlu (Mersin) and his friends ▪ Strangers whose work permit can be extradited MADDE 17- Unless the two-sided or multilateral agreements where Turkey sided otherwise; A) Married to a Turkish citizen and living in a marriage union with his wife in Turkey or the marriage union ended after at least three years, but the foreigners settled in Turkey and their Turkish citizen's children, B) Under Articles 19, 27 and 28 of Turkish Citizenship Act 5901, those who have lost Turkish citizenship and the füruuna of them, C) To foreigners born in Turkey, born in Turkey, or without their own national law, who have come to Turkey without the age of ignominy under Turkish legislation and have graduated from vocational school, higher school or university, D) According to House Law 2510, to foreigners considered as immigrants, refugees or nomads, e) European Union member states citizens and their spouses and children who are not citizens of European Union member states, f) The diplomat who serves at foreign countries' embassies in Turkey and their consulates and representatives of international organisations, and the spouses and children of the administrative and technical staff, who are in Turkey to be within the framework of the principle of reciprocity and to be limited to the mandate of their ambassadorships, consulates and international organisations, and the spouses and technical staff who have been assigned to their spouses and children, g) To foreigners who will temporarily come to Turkey over a month for scientific and cultural activities and over four months for sporty activities, H) To key staffed foreigners who will be employed in the work of law-sanctioned ministries and public institutions, contracting or contracting services in the form of contracts or tenders, making a business or running a facility, I) to foreign and homeless persons who have applied for international protection and who have been granted conditional refugee status by the Ministry of the Interior, j) To qualified foreigners who will contribute to our country's development in science, technology, RD, innovation and design, The appointed times of this Law can be granted a work permit without exception. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0133par0209	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0132par0210	Mersin MP Serdal Külcuoğlu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Wellercuoglu.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0134par0213	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 17 of the International Labor Law Bill 403. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, our country is going through a delicate phase. After the coups of Turkey, 1960, 1971 and 1980, in 1962 and 1963, Talat Aydemir was faced with coup attempt on July 15, 2016. The coup attempt was made against democracy and Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The coup attempt failed because there was no social support and opposition. The coupters have infiltrated the chiefs of staff until they've infiltrated the aides. It's funny how the President learned about the coup from his brother-in-law. The question is, where was the intelligence? Everyone stands aside as a question mark. The country needs to be normalized, everything has to be in law, not witch hunting. The McCarthy era must not happen, the reputation of the army must be protected. Privates and privates must be taken care of -- including the violent -- must be done within human rights and law. The declaration of the State of Emergency and the suspension of democracy and law will cause even greater problems. There's a concern for the business community, academics, lawyers, government officials. True, baseless reports are causing problems, daily reports of judicial and unjust practices are received. Disgrace is unacceptable to members of the army who are not certain to share in the coup attempt. City vehicles and buses put in front of public and military facilities are ugly and military offensive. Criminals must be caught and punished, but while they are being done, institutions should not be worn down, people should be careful of rights and law. Dear MPs, there are over 500,000 engineers and architects in Turkey that I am currently involved with. Again, there are over 400,000 students studying engineering, architecture, and tens of thousands of students graduate each year, and many of them join the unemployed army. Today, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey also has around 85 of our friends, engineers and architects. The bill concerns all professions based on licensing training. This law is against the citizen of the Republic of Turkey, engineer, architect and city planner. Engineering will pay the price for the problems that can be caused by the hands of foreigners who lack adequate training and professional experience, without control and control of architecture services. Regardless of the equivalence of the schools they graduated from, foreign employees based on the declaration will be considered qualified labor, while our citizens with professional qualifications will become intermediaries. Foreign engineers and architects need to get jobs and discipline from graduates instead of opening the way for easy work in our country. In this regard, the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures needs professional organisations to participate more in professional matters. Instead of a large number of engineering, architecture departments and facultys, I think it would be better to improve the quality of education, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0135par0220	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There is a motion on the 18th article. I read it and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the subsidiary of Article 18 of the International Labor Law Bill 403 be replaced by.12 months in the first joke of Article 18 of the current 403 rows. Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Open Mind Erhan Master Mustafa Kalaycı Ruhi Ersoy Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0136par0233	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0135par0234	The Ottoman MP Ruhi Ersoy has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0137par0237	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're having a hard time. All of you, we've all been there and we've been there. We're all going to come out of these challenges with a culture of solidarity, but we've also experienced a number of actions that have been attempted with good intentions in the past experience as we evaluate this culture of solidarity. What were those? It was a matter of accepting everyone connected to the state of the Republic of Turkey as the main element of the Turkish nation. As we look at the squares as of today, the Republic of Turkey felt its citizenship as a tribute to all the saintly Turkish nation, who can read the Istiklal anthem in the field under the Turkish flag and together. But by not feeling this enthusiasm with the same emotion, we've experienced how much trouble it is to be involved in the government, with ethnic identities or ideologies or parallel structures, with organizations such as Å organisation, with a sense of belonging outside the civil law. When we look ahead, it means that Shivan Perwers, accompanied by confetti in the squares, does not solve the problems of collecting people, it is necessary to tell Mustafa Starborns in the field. As we went beyond that, we saw another truth that we had seen when we took steps with my name, decisively, with nationalism, with nationalism that could bring people together in such extraordinary situations, with nationalism, with nationalism free of ethnic identity and the sum of sociological abandonment. But as we saw it, the same mistake began to turn into a series of meaningless credits, such as the public spot, under the name "I am happy Kurd" and "I am not happy" and "I am not happy" and "I am not happy" and "I am not Armenian." He's had a lot of reactions. Fortunately, we've heard that he's finally come to an end and he's being interfered with. We've seen how important it is not to make these kinds of mistakes and to act with common spirit, collective consciousness. Second: In what we do next, we need to view the state of law, the rule of law as a need to be a state. As we supported individual rights and freedoms to the end, as we opened the way for the rights, we saw that while the state of law was taking place, it was necessary to end up in the minds of those who felt their belonging elsewhere, if necessary, to punish them in the highest degree with law. We saw something else, and that's a fact. It's important to remind that today, in the squares, the enthusiastic crowds will continue in this manner when bread and ideal are side by side. The late Peyami Safa has a saying: if the bread and the ideal are together, it will be meaningful, and without bread, it will not be ideal, and if you remove the ideal from man, there will be mud left. We don't want to be in the mud, we want the ideal to be in the best places. But I also think it is necessary to see the Turkish state and the government's path as quickly as possible in the coming days, and to open the way for the risks that could push Turkey towards economic difficulties, with international networks. As of today's press, go to our citizens who have performed pro-government in Austria, who have hung flags on their homes, and if you are a Turkish citizen, live in your country. There is news that they will be punished as they did in Austria. I don't know right or wrong, but there's something else I do know, especially Germany, that is, seriously, the anti-Turkey lobby is at work. I don't think we should stand idly by as Congress. We think that we should work together with our arguments that can express our rights to the international public, especially to inter-accession groups, especially the Foreign Office, including the terrorist organization we've been exposed to. While these facts are ahead of us, we say that labor, sweat, law, democracy, a teaching that can produce economics and question, and that a national national state, the state of Turkey and the Turkish nation, which emerges from all of this, is a future guarantee, and with these reminders, we hope that our labour law law law should be a source of good. He says we should always open the way for bread to bring the ideal together. We salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0138par0243	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second joke of Article 20 of the International Labor Law Bill 403, which is currently in session, we propose and propose that the pre-license and licensing of the contract be replaced as, and that its second sentence be removed from the text. Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Open Mind Erhan Usta Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 20 of the Law Bill 403 be changed in the following way. Those who are studying at a pre-license and license level from foreign students can apply for a work permit after the first year of their studies is completed. They can work for a partial period of 24 hours a week, according to Business Law No. 4857, dated 22/5/2003. This limitation does not apply to undergraduate students registered in ducking programs. Çağlar Demirel İdris Bauken Sibel Yiğitalp Berdan Özturk Merkel Danış Beştaş Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 20 of the International Labor Law Act 403 be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Those studying at a pre-license and license level from foreign students can apply for a work permit after the completion of the first year of their studies and work for a partial period of 24 hours a week under the Law of Work, dated 22/5/2003 and 4857. These restrictions do not apply to undergraduate students registered in ducking programs. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0139par0273	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0138par0274	Izmir MP Ali Yiğit asking for a word on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0140par0277	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 20 of the International Labor Law. Before I begin, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, not much, but as many of you as a year ago, as a new MP, the first thing I saw when I came under this roof was the word of the unregistered, unconditional nation. Of course, I'm very excited about it. Over the course of time, I've seen that no matter how hard we try under the weight of that word, nothing changes. No matter how hard we worked, our thoughts, our proposals were ignored, the absolute sovereignty of the majority was considered a democracy. Last week, however, after a failed coup attempt at history as a black mark, parliament has once again made a note of its right to be the Veteran Assembly, where sovereignty and opposition and sovereignty belong to the unconditional, unconditional nation. What has happened has once again revealed the fact that democracy is our greatest denominator. The Supreme Assembly, first of all, is obliged to investigate this coup attempt on democracy with all its dimensions and take the necessary measures to ensure it never happens again. But it shouldn't be enough. From the past to the present, to the coup stage, those who ignore the process, those who create the ground, and those who remain indifferent must answer to this nation. For this reason, all political parties, especially in power, must act on their responsibilities and avoid areas that will weaken democratic politics, not to save the day, but to negotiate future policies in agreement and understanding in parliament. Dear MPs, during the commission talks on the bill we discussed, there were explosions at the airport in Istanbul; 47 of our people died, hundreds of people were injured. In the process, the withdrawal of the bill, the attempts to delay the talks, unfortunately, were inconclusive. Now, after a coup attempt, this bill began to be discussed before the trauma was recovered. Now, I'm naturally curious and I'm asking: what problem will this bill, which they're meeting in the General Assembly, quickly resolve, as a threat of an ongoing attack and coup attempt on constitutional order continues while bombs go off in the country? What needs are born of this bill, and which of these needs is more important than the regime and the security issue we face now? I'm really curious, and I'm waiting for your answer from the Minister. Instead of carrying out a very important self-criticism process for our country's future, the bill that we are negotiating today is a bill designed to adapt our national legislation to international legislation, but it has been rushed. We call it the European Union, we call it international agreements, we try to look like them in many areas, but we ignore the laws of the European Union and international agreements in matters such as human rights, law, justice, equality, democracy, social rights of the media, independence of the individual, freedom of income distribution, inequality of the European Union, and we do not see the same sensitivity and sensitivity. The many challenges we face today have a profound effect on the origins of many problems, on those values that are the basis of democracy and its will to live together. For him, we need to first internalize these values, to dominate all aspects of life, free of segregated policy speech, compromiser, fair and tolerant understanding. The 20th article of the bill allows foreign students to work longer. Given the grounds for the bill, there is a proposal for a change in which their partial working rights should be increased in 30 hours to ensure that they continue their education, and the Ministry of Interior's powers are being revoked. While in our country, where youth unemployment is high, foreign students should not be allowed to work, increasing permits given by other laws as a period of time, and facilitating them is incompatible with young anti-employment policies. For this reason, it would be more appropriate to withdraw and renegotiate the matter. With these thoughts, I salute our great Council, saying once again that it is better for our country. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0141par0286	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 20 of the Law Bill 403 be changed in the following way. Those who are studying at a pre-license and license level from foreign students can apply for a work permit after the first year of their studies is completed. They can work for a partial period of 24 hours a week, according to Business Law No. 4857, dated 22/5/2003. This limitation does not apply to undergraduate students registered in ducking programs. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0142par0295	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0141par0296	İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0143par0299	Thank you. Mr. President, I have stated that after the coup attempt on July 15th, there is an opportunity for a democracy that we can actually take from here to freedom, to more democracy. However, later applications show that, unfortunately, we do not seem to have had the opportunity, especially the State of Emergency. But we really believe that it still needs to be called, though, to fight for it. Now, you said 30 days of extraordinary detention. Thirty days of detention is a long, long, unacceptable practice, my friends. There are reports of torture coming from a lot of places, tortures coming from, we see people's scattered faces in the press, various places, televisions. Now, how do I really say these people... respect these human rights, the human rights settlement... they're always, always what we stand for in this country. We've always stood up for the coups, too. Perhaps it is not for us to be reminded that journalists who have been bombing in Kurdish provinces for years, months, and who are now being detained on suspicion of a coup, should not be tortured or looked at in any way in the face of us or that they should not be tortured, that they are just journalists, that we should be the only ones to defend, that we should all do it together. What we call "extreme state of law" does not mean that everything can be done in a state of emergency; some things that are limited can mean that some measures can be taken in this extraordinary situation. We don't want to live in a culture of revenge. Vengeance culture won't do any of us any good, it won't do any of us any good. If you were in custody one day in the same way, maybe you wouldn't do that for us, but I assure you, as human rights advocates, we have to give you the same support because we can't all continue to live together in a culture of revenge unless human rights law and human rights culture are established in this country. What is being defended today, for example, that the mayor of Istanbul, what I don't want to believe in, could be acceptable, friends? You're religious people. How can an ideological cemetery be created, something called the graveyard of traitors? If Kadir Topbaş wants to do something very useful, let him open the shelters of women who have suffered violence over the years. In Istanbul, let him support women who have suffered violence, and let the traitors not open the cemetery. It's also punishment for what's left behind. Such a culture is not acceptable in any human being, in any law. Yes, for example, I would like Mr. Kavakçı, who had just been there for a hundred and thirty days -- who had really observed all kinds of violations, who had observed all kinds of injustice to the Kurds, who had detected all kinds of injustices to the Kurds -- to look at Mr. Kavakçı, who had intervened, and who had brought his sister here one day, and to see whether Nazlı Ilıcak was really, Nazlı Ilcak journalist or not? Because that's what we should be doing today, about the academics, especially about the academics. We need to look at everyone with suspicion, and we need to defend everyone being tried in accordance with the law, in accordance with human rights, without violating their rights. It's one thing to be against blows, but it's another to be one type of person. We don't have to sing the same song together, just like another hack just said. We all decide which song to sing in the context of democracy, in the pluralistic sense. The opposite is singing Deutschland, Deutschland uber alles. Like in Hitler's Nazizmi. My respects.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0144par0308	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second joke of Article 20 of the International Labor Law Bill 403, which is currently in session, we propose and propose that the pre-license and licensing of the contract be replaced as, and that its second sentence be removed from the text. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0145par0316	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0144par0317	Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu will speak on the motion. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0146par0320	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 20th article of the International Labor Law Bill 403 on behalf of the National Movement Party, with respect to the Veteran Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. In Article 20 of the bill, the esteemed lawmakers have stated that they can work on the registration of foreign students registered at a higher education institution in Turkey, that they will work part-time after the first year, that the procedures and fundamentals of foreign students' work will be determined in accordance with the views of the Ministry of Interior, as well as the applications will be assessed by the International Employment Policy Council. Dear lawmakers, the basis for this bill is said to be the prevention of non-registered employees who are foreign nationals in our country and who work but are said not to be registered. It is also stated that there are significant increases in the number of qualified technical staff in our country, that regulations must be made on this issue, and that this bill must be adopted in harmony with the European Union integration process. Dear lawmakers, this bill allows foreign capital to work under the guise of affordable labor in a small way, offering jobs to foreigners in our country, where young unemployment is busy. Given that there are millions of unemployed people, and 19 to 20 percent of them are educated young people, it is unfortunately the greatest injustice to Turkish people. According to the needs of the country, around 450 000 engineers and architects who will study at the existing higher education institutions are being blocked in the future of graduates, technical staff, in their upbringing, and in their workforce. As a result, what we call the brain migration will occur, causing the young people who have given up hope from their own country to look for hope outside, and their sense of belonging to their country, to their nation, to weaken. As a result of the incidents in Syria, Hatay, my own constituency, also heads the cities with the most immigration and populations, with the most asylum seekers. With a figure of 19 to 20 percent, unemployment is the main problem in our city where unemployment is the busiest. I leave a sense of government that has not been able to solve the unemployment problem of its own citizen, that has not been able to provide employment in the investments he told them he had done, and especially to the appreciation of our people and especially my qualified, unqualified young unemployed brothers. Dear lawmakers, our country faced a great deal on July 15th. Fortunately, our nation's faith and devotion to democracy, the sense of ownership of republican values, has been a major factor in preventing this treacherous attempt. Those who betray the will and future of the Turkish nation will surely answer for Turkish justice and give the ultimate punishment. But I also want to make it very clear here that in this troubled and fuzzy environment, our people who have grown in love for our country and nation should not be victimized by the principle of the rule of rule of law, act fairly and impartially, and the fears and concerns of our nation must be eliminated. In recent years, the principle of neutrality and integrity in public officials' appointments, promotions and promotions was sadly abandoned by the influence of parallel structures, knowing or not. The lack of the righted official in public institutions prevented working peace, unity, and solidarity. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, while the terrorist organization is being destroyed, I ask that no more injustices be done, I salute the High Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0147par0329	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The 21st article has a common motion, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st article of the International Labor Law Bill, 403 rows, which are being discussed, should be changed in the following way. First Light Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Aytuğ Thrower Tülay Kaynarca Murat Alparslan İdris Bauken According to this Law, foreigners who completed their studies at engineering and architecture schools of a higher education institution in Turkey or at a well-known institute of higher education and higher education in the country concerned abroad and have received the title of engineers and architects, can perform engineering and architecture professions based on project and temporary time." Does the commission agree with the motion? We're going to leave it up to recognition. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0148par0344	We accept, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0147par0345	I'm reading the reason: Foreign national engineers and architects who complete their studies in the engineering and architecture schools of a higher education institution in Turkey or abroad at a well-known institute of higher education and higher education are intended to apply for a work permit without looking for academic equality, based on project-based and temporary work. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... It's unanimous. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 21st article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 22 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of the International Labor Law Bill, 403, which is currently in session, be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Şenal Sarıhan Ünal Demirtaş Ali Yiğit Çetin Arık "One) The application for a work permit or a work permit is rejected and the cancellation of the documents filed by the employer who operates foreign or an independent worker's permit, and the employment permit for a foreign person is issued according to the provisions dated 11/2/1959 and Article 7201." Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0149par0362	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0147par0363	Mersin MP Aytuğ Thrower will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0150par0366	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article 22 of the International Labor Law, which we are discussing. I salute your High Council. Dear friends, we propose a very simple thing about this substance, and we say, "Let everything be based on merit." So, if you're going to get a work permit or a work permit exemption, you should also get the opinion of the relevant occupational agency, so let's try to give it to the person who's doing the job properly. I mean, technical elements within governments, of course, of course, could be, but one professional man knows his fellow profession much better than any of us, politicians. Now, we can all see that if you don't do the job according to this merit, it's really going to get to the trouble. Where do we see it if it's not based on merit? We see it in colleges in the first place. Even though we've said so many times about the Fethullah Gulen construction of universities, all of our rhetoric has been thrown back into the background and jet professors have been invented, you remember. Now, since we're on top of this, we're gonna have to work together on these jet professors. If these professors, these academics, these professors, were brought to these points when they were not worthy, they should be investigated. We've already told you, who's going to investigate them? Of course the NGO will investigate. For the rulers of the CEC know very well who is doing what. Now, since we've been talking, you've been picking up what's ahead of you. We say, "Oh, don't eat the right, separate the curve from the right." Now you're doing this to academics at universities; all innocent people gather. He's packing, but who's gonna stop him? The Chancellor will be in the way. He can't say that this man is not a fethullahist. He has serious concerns that he will be investigated the moment he says this because he has just been investigated by the Justice Department because a judge has released an indictee. Yeah, brother, the judge thought it wasn't guilty, so he let it go. What's it to you? Why are you investigating him? Likewise, the presidents of universities were unable to defend their own staff. Now, we ask you to cooperate: Let us, in some way, gather people who have come to various levels because they have been a conquestist in the past, and let us help you, but it is not enough. If these people have taken their title unfairly, then their titles must be taken back. It's a very vivid example: just two weeks ago, with a motion, we proved that an emergency medical expert serving at Şanliurfa was a doctor of false documents, and this person went to America and ended two residencys in three years. He graduates as a practitioner, does mandatory service here for a year, then goes to the U.S., where he comes to the children's residency and the children's emergency upper secondary school. Aren't you going to go after these people? What we ask of you is that these things must be dealt with decisively, and that they must be cooperated. Now, we've cooperated with this bill, and we've changed some of the clauses, and you said, OK. In the previous bill, we also cooperated with you on extracting the black money-laundering material, but we learned that before his ink dried up, you accepted a much more disgusting substance that laundered black money in the Plan and Budget Commission today. Guys, don't test our faith in you because we don't really trust you very much. And if you're gonna pull out the Troubled Matters here tomorrow, I don't give you my blessing. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0151par0376	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Matter accepted. There are three motions on Article 23 that I read and process. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the release of a work permit or a work permit in Article 23 of Law Bill 403, which is discussed, shall be changed in the form of a work permit and a work permit exemption. Sibel Yiğitalp Aycan İrmez Meral Danış Beştaş Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the International Labor Law Bill 403 is changed on the 13th day of work, on the 15th day of the workday, in the article (1) of Article 23 of the International Labor Law. Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Open mind Antalya Kahramanmaraş Sakarya Erhan Master Mustafa Kalaycı Deniz Depboylu Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of the International Labor Law Bill 403 be changed in (1) the following way. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Aytuğ Atı Ünal Demirtaş Other employers who employ foreigners are obliged to report to the Ministry within fifteen days of the start of the work day before the start of work or the start of the work permit exemption, and in the case of the end of the work permit. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We can't agree, sir. İstanbul MP Yakup Akkaya will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0152par0407	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 23rd Article of the International Labor Law Bill, titled the declaration and social security obligation. I salute you all again. If a Turkish citizen is to start working at a workplace under Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510, a day ago, he will notify Social Security. This arrangement has never been in the law before. He was applying to Social Security within a month of starting work during Law 506. This law was being misused in practice. In the event of running an illegal worker, when the employers came to the workplace, they had just started working, and I would report it this month. Because of this law, there was no fighting illegal labor, and there were serious problems. We came up with a solution with Law 5510, and the day before the worker actually began to work, it was announced to the Social Insurance Agency. Now you're looking at a different arrangement for Turkish citizens, a separate arrangement for foreigners. This is, above all, a violation of the principle of equality in our Constitution. While Turks, Turkish citizens, should be subject to a separate practice, foreigners are subject to a different practice. Second, I would like to say that due to this regulation, the main reason for the law is that it will deviate from the goal of fighting illegal foreign labor, and that the audits that will be discussed in the next article will mean nothing. When insurance or business inspectors go to the workplace for inspection, employers will immediately start arguing. In the previous Law of 506, the practice before being changed to 5510 will be carried out by this law, and foreign workers will continue to work as fugitives, and employers will say, "We have just begun this law, and we will report it in time." That is why our motion has been made to inform Social Security the day before foreign workers begin to study their notifications in case they start working. This arrangement also concerns union rights and freedoms, valued lawmakers. The number of employees is taken into account on the date of the application in the event of union organisation. This employee's number is also taken into account by the Social Security Agency. That is exactly why the problems that we have established for our own citizens in Law 6356 for our workers will begin again with this law. I have a duty here to remind you of this problem. Tomorrow, the unions will apply for a majority due to Syrian fugitives to the Ministry. Please, let's consider and change this motion in that direction. Dear MPs, as a result of the July 15 coup attempt, you know, the Bosphorus Bridge has been renamed the Bridge of Martyrs on July 15th, and the Kızılay Square and General Staff's intersection is being renamed for those who have been killed in a democracy fight again on July 15th. This is a very accurate approach, and in the cities where the martyrs are on July 15th, of course, our municipalities will make arrangements to keep their memories alive. However, the Zodiac Square can't be kept out of it. The division is a square where 34 workers were killed in 1977 and is one of the squares in which the democracy watch was held as of July 15th. So I'm going to tell you once again that the workers, the unions, will take into account the request that the Salon Square be Emek and Democracy Square, and that the name of Taxi Square will be changed to Labour and Democracy Square, as in all other places. I give you all love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0153par0415	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The motion for Deniz Depboy and his friends has been withdrawn. I'm going to read the other motion now. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the release of a work permit or a work permit in Article 23 of Law Bill 403, which is discussed, shall be changed in the form of a work permit and a work permit exemption. Behcet Yıldırım (Adıyaman) and his friends
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0154par0422	We're pulling the motion.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit02spe0153par0423	The motion has been drawn. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There is a common motion in Article 28/1a, which I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 of the International Labor Law Act 403 (a) be changed in the following way. First Light Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Aytuğ Thrower Tülay Kaynarca Hakan Sergeantoğlu Fatih Şahin Article 34 has been changed in the following way. MADDE 34- Foreign contractors or foreign organisations in Turkey can operate foreign engineers and architects with the permission granted by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, provided they remain solely in the engineering or architecture work they have committed with official and private organisations and local organisations. According to the Union of Chambers to be given under this clause, it is not required to determine the degree equivalence of foreign professionals who received their diplomas from higher education institutions abroad, dated 4/11/1981 and under the Law on Higher Education 2547." Does the commission agree with the motion? We'll leave it up to appreciation. Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to maintain the application of the relevant vocational room's opinion and to avoid the search for academic equivalency procedure in this matter. Now, I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, there's a joint motion on the subsection of Article 28 (1) (b) of Article 28: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 of the International Labor Law Act 403 (b) be replaced in the following way. First Light Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Aytuğ Thrower Ramazan Can Tülay Kaynarca Murat Alparslan Article 35 has been changed in the following way. Foreign engineers and foreign architects who are not included in Article 35-34 may be given the opinion of the Chamber of Rooms Union to work with a work permit issued by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Government? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to continue the application of the relevant vocational room to give opinions. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are unanimous. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes of Article 28 of Article (1) (b): Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Article 28 of Article (1) (c) has a joint proposal on me, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 of the International Labor Law Bill, 403, which is currently in session, be removed from the draft text of the subtitle (1) (c). First Light Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Aytuğ Thrower İdris Bauken Mehmet Doğan Kubat Tülay Kaynarca Does the commission agree with the motion? Sir, we're leaving it up to appreciation. Government? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to preserve the ruling on membership in the relevant vocational chamber in the current form of the law. I submit the joint motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, in accordance with the motion adopted, the Article 28 of Article (1) (c) was taken out of the draft text. I'm taking a minute off from the merger.
tbmm-2016-07-27sit03spe0153par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 403 from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey, number 130 in the 2nd place, and with the European Parliamentary Bill and Foreign Commission Report, where the Treaty of the Consulting between the Montenegrin Government is appropriate. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will no longer be available, it is Thursday (July 28, 2016) that the bill and proposals are scheduled to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 14 p.m. on Thursday (July 28, 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish you a good evening.
