tbmm-2016-04-25sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now we're gonna do a roll call with an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call at the opening was not enough for the meeting. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Adana MP Elif Doğan Türkmen (also) who wants to talk about Adana's problems. Here you go, Mr. Turkmen.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0002par0015	Thank you. Mr. President, before I begin, I would like to congratulate our daughter, Çağla Büçükekekeyyy, who was the first in Istanbul Cup last night and who we are proud to have been from Adana. He also won the Super League and became a champion yesterday, along with the match at our Adanaspor, Gaziantep. From here I send greetings and love to all of Adana, and celebrate our Adanaspor. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, in Adana yesterday afternoon, seven or eight of our farmers, Seyhan, performed a total of 15 minutes to begin and finish in the district of Büdikili yesterday. These farmers have been planting potatoes for years, and unfortunately this year, they've had to sell their products, let alone earn them, for very serious damage, and some of them haven't sold their product. In the past years, they've spent $2,000 a year on products worth at least 2,000 liras, but they haven't found customers who can sell them for even $700 a year. They also took action through their ordeal, wanted to make their voices heard, and did no harm to anyone in their actions. As I said, it took 15 minutes to start and end, but unfortunately, the Adana farmers were beaten, punched by police in these rights struggles, and were taken into custody with long-barreled guns first, and then fired directly into the air and then taken into custody. Right now, when I called before I had this conversation, I was informed that our farmers were still in custody. Besides, our farmers have been in the police station since yesterday. As of nine o'clock last night, all the flaws in their files were over, so they could have been transferred to the courthouse last night, but unfortunately, the detention period was used as a punishment, and despite being beaten up, we had farmers taken into custody, who were held in the police station, even though they were being punched. Yeah, we actually know that concept. Years ago at the Mersin rally, our President said to our farmer, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who said he couldn't get along. What we see is that that understanding is still going on. This is the understanding that our farmer, who is supposed to be protected by the police, who needs to be protected by the police, is being punched by the police, he's being turned on by long-barreled guns, and the police department is using his detention period to the end. Our farmers have been in custody since yesterday as a result of such a simple 15 minutes of search for rights. I specifically wanted to address this problem. In the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the problems of our farmers are constantly spoken of, but unfortunately, the government is not involved in any study of solutions. And I offer it to all the peoples of Turkey. Thank you very much. Greetings and salutations.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Turkmen. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Osman Baydemir. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0004par0027	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you with respect, love, respect. As a matter of fact, the basis of my request to make a commitment is to inform the Assembly of the obstacles that my colleagues have encountered in the ongoing phase of detention and detention, which they have already encountered in practice. It's almost a ten-month period, and we're going through a period of time when we've all criticised and argued that the Constitution would have to change and the Constitution would have been removed from the shelf as a whole, and the Constitution would have been removed from practice. The 26th article of the Constitution regulates freedom of thought, the 28th article of the Constitution regulates freedom of the press, and the 35th article of the Constitution regulates property rights, but it is also one of the texts that guarantees safety and freedom of persons. Unfortunately, within ten months, we are now faced with the implementation of a party state, let alone a democratic law state. Not just within Parliament, but within this Parliament, the Government Assembly, which we have witnessed, its implementation of the Party Assembly, its implementation, in practice, in locals, in cities, from the governor's office, all public units, and its men, are being processed under the despotism of the party, sort of. So far, in just ten months, 26 mayors, more than 20 council members have been arrested and put in prison, 14 co-chairs and members of parliament have been suspended. So, today, the AKP government, in a manner of speaking, puts it in the hands of a law enforcement officer, in another way, in the court, in the hands of the court, in the hands of the court, in order to punish the consent the people did not give, by punishing it and putting it in prison. At the same time, every citizen taken into custody, put in prison, arrested, is being transferred to prisons outside his own province in order to punish what he left behind. In ten months' time... Now you're going to say there's a ditch, there's a barricade, there's resistance, that's why we're doing this. In Urbana, 1,500 people have been taken into custody in just ten months, and they've been subjected to torture that spans September 12th, September 12th, while 400 of these people have been arrested and transferred to prisons outside of Uruguay. I'm telling you, virtually no criminal complaint against torture claims and allegations is being filed. One thing that's as important as this is that the defense is one of the most essential acts of judgment. In the detention process, lawyers are not allowed to use their rights -- again -- according to both CMK and CMUK -- from searching at home to defending in court. You know, sometimes for hours, sometimes for days, we meet our lawyer friends who get beat up when I don't get to see the defense or the defense. As a matter of fact, I have brought up this demand here today because of the effort to meet the demands of our Urban Baro. If all of these practices have been carried out to contain society, to digest society -- which means nothing else, there is no other explanation -- for 70 years, the community has not been swayed by pressure, algebra, violence, illegal methods, nor will society be corrupted after that. If you seek a way to win society, it is to appeal to their hearts, which can only happen with freedom, equality, and justice. And once again, we will all need law, justice, one day, including everyone present in this Parliament, and all of us, including the people represented in this Parliament. Come, once again today, let this House demonstrate the will of the founding House, and let us now hold law, justice, freedom together. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0005par0036	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir. The third unscheduled statement is from Yozgat MP Ertuğrul Soysal, who wants to speak on behalf of World Brotherhood Week. Here you are, Mr. Soysal.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0006par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've been promised off-the-tops for World Brotherhood Week. I hereby salute you all with respect, love, conversation. The brotherhood is the strongest chain that binds humanity and Muslims together. Dear friends, the term "sistership" has two important meanings. First, the brotherhood of mankind, without religion, race, or any other record, is the brotherhood that the Quran emphasizes from humanity. This is a brotherhood for all people, Muslim, non-Muslim. In the Qur'an, the verse states that all humans are brothers in order to become descendants of Adam the Great. O mankind, We created you from a male and a female. And then we divided them into nations and tribes so that you might know each other. So, in short, we love the creation, as Jonah Emre put it, because of the Creator. The second is the brotherhood of Islam among Muslims. Indeed, the faithful are brothers. The verse in Mealdan and Hucurat Surah says so. The most important link that connects the people of Anatolia is the brotherhood of Islam. The foundation of unity and unity is also the ancient faith and Islamic bond. Muslims connected to the Ottomans, who, by the way, looked at the Turkish nation, which had been flagging Islam for centuries, as the hero of Islam and the brother of Muslims. Many of God's prophets are sent to Shark, which means that Shark is the only one who will awaken and deter Shark, and only the sense of religion and the brotherhood of Islam. Asrisaadet and the Ottoman era are an example. I want to remind you that Islam is what makes this country's races one race, one person, one person. It's not a biological revelation; it's not about blood, it's not about skulls. The greatest of all promises, the most holy, black-skinned or yellow... people are brothers. To love the same things, to live and to die for the same things, is a belief that makes Turk, Arab, Kurdish, Albanian like running for the wedding. Gazaya, I mean, crying together for a thousand years, laughing together. This is what Cemil Meric describes as a brotherhood. Again, the great scholar Bediuz time has cried out to Sheikh Said in the past: "The Turkish nation has been the bannerman of Islam for centuries. He raised a lot of parents and gave away martyrs. You can't put a sword on the descendants of a nation like this. We are Muslims, and they are brothers, so do not fight the brother. This is not evil. The sword is drawn against the external enemy, including the sword. In this day and age, our only hope of salvation is to preach and preach with the truth of the Qur'an and the faith. Our greatest enemy is to explore ignorance. Give up your attempt, because it'll remain fluid, and thousands of men and women can be destroyed because of a few villains. Your struggle is to have your brother killed, and it will be inconclusive. Because Turk-Kurdish is a brother. For a thousand years, the Turkish nation has been flagging Islam, giving millions of martyrs for the sake of religion. Busenaley said to the descendants of the heroic and selfless Islamists, the Turkish nation would never draw a sword, and I would never draw a sword. Dear friends, the antidote to terror poison is the brotherhood of Islam. We would like to point out that a true Muslim, a sincere believer, would never be a fan of anarchy, terrorism and corruption. What religion forbids is persecution and anarchy. Because anarchy, without any rights, transforms the laws of humanity and the works of civilization into the choice of monster animals. This heroic nation and its glorious army will continue to be the flagmaster of Islam for all eternity. The Europeans who want to destroy the Republic of Turkey and the Europeans who want to destroy this army will be devastated, as will some other neighbouring states who unconsciously grease the bread of the enemies of Islam. The state of the Republic of Turkey and its heroic army will remain a diamond sword in the hand of Islam with the light of faith and the light of the Quran, even though it has been drawn to different points by conflict failures. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The point is, dear friends, that the state of the Republic of Turkey, with its army, its nation and its homeland, will stand by God's grace until the end of the day, and I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0007par0054	Thank you, Mr. Soysal. Now, before we go on the agenda, I would like to share with you the names of the lawmakers who entered the system and asked for a statement according to 60 things: Mr. Aydemir, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Turan, Mr. Erdinç, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Topal, Mr. Seksek and Mr. Mountain. Now I promise you for a minute, in order of 60. Mr. Aydemir, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0008par0060	Mr. President, thank you. You know, football, it's a common, dominant and popular sport. Erzurumspor is the brand of our province that I represent. A brand founded in 1968, rising up to the Super League; the blue-white fertility of Erzurum, the symbol of whiteness, is a love that meets in the color of heaven, the motif of snow and lust. A new Erzurum synergy, supported by the Metropolitan Municipality, which rose to the Third League on April 11, 2011, to comfort our sorrow, and to build up our expectations and hopes for football. Thankfully, since the 2011-2012 season, he's reached the goal of the Second League, which we've been looking forward to and we've been looking forward to. Our expectation is that he's headed for the Super League address. Success is the work of our mayor, Mr. Mehmet Tabkin. It is the work of our club president, Mr. Demirhan, and members of the board, and the great Erzurumspor fans, who are called the 12th man. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It means we're grateful to them all, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0009par0065	Thank you. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0010par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received numerous complaints about the ongoing collection of agricultural land in Niğde Province. My fertile land has been taken and given from the barren land. They do not accept my land as a mortgage because of collectiveization. There is a problem until I say so. Farmers need to be convinced about this. There's also a problem with the land that's coming in through the inheritance. Under Article 8/8 of Land Protection and Land Use Law 5403, the inheritance must be completed within a year from the date of the death of the muris, the property cycles of agricultural land. In most places, there's no inheritance in agriculture within a year, one of the family's interested in the field. The Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture Department of Agriculture shall grant an extension of three months, and in case the ownership period is not completed, the court of the peace decides that the land will be sold to the most willing heir, who gives the property to the competent heir, if there is no heir, otherwise to the third person.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0011par0071	Mr. Gündüz...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0012par0073	Mr. President, thank you. Erol Güngör Hoxha, one of the rare inventors of the Turkish-Islam think world, is also important in today's time to look and evaluate the concept of nationalism. Getting his ideas right and absorbing them will help us fully understand the concept of nationalism. In the 33rd year of his death, I commemorate and pray, not by race, but by grace, a man of litigation, a precious contractor, a social psychologist, and a writer, Professor Erol Göngör. I salute the House of People.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0013par0077	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0014par0079	The policies of Erdogan and his party after they came to power led Erdogan to form a throne in the hearts of hundreds of millions of Muslims and Arabs. His policy was not based on words, but on action, not hypocrisy, not transparency, not pursuit of interests, but on principles winning and virtues. These policies, apparently, have been strengthened by Erdogan's political and economic leadership and have become the leader of the Islamic world today, despite certain costs and difficulties to the government of Turkey, as well as by Turkey's strong stance, which has always raised people and principles. In this relationship, we're all screaming from here. Thank you, Turkey. These are the words of the Egyptian former Minister of Communication, who came from dozens of Islamic countries in Istanbul for four days and delivered a notice at an organisation called "Thank you, Turkey." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is announced to those who judge their country and its leader in Western capitals, have the same spirit climate as the muslims, speak their language and look to Turkey in their eyes.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0015par0084	Mr. Erdinç...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0016par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Adana had one of the historic days yesterday; 49 factories brought to us by the private sector to Adana, and one thermal plant in the district of Hurlbeyli, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, presented it to the service of our citizens. Again, our Adanaspor team secured the title for the First League, the Super League, and reached the Super League. Congratulations to our Adanaspor community from here. Again, one of our Adana brothers, Çağla Büçükaceky, and in tennis, became a fine champion for Turkey. I congratulate him from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0017par0091	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0018par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Adanaspor made it to the Super League after twelve years in a great victory. I sincerely congratulate the football players, the technical committee, the administration, the president and the poor fans. I wish you all the best in the Super League. Again, I sincerely hope that our city's distinguished team, Adana Demirspor, will also reach the Super League. Mr. President, yesterday we had a group of farmers who wanted to protest the price of potatoes in Adana. Only ten to fifteen minutes of this action was over, while the group was falling apart, a police officer stepped out of his vehicle with a long barrel and reacted violently to the farmers, and then he was in a riot. Now, I'm asking Mr. Home Secretary, with a long barrel... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is it logical to provoke people, to get into a fight? Since when is it a crime to exercise your constitutional right to conduct a harmless protest? Has there been an investigation of the police officer?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0019par0099	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0020par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. We've got martyrs again, we're in great pain again. During the ongoing operations in Mardin's district of Mardin, two of our soldiers were unfortunately killed and two of our soldiers were injured this morning as a result of the explosion of the improvised explosive device planted in a building by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) people. This time, the address of pain is Giresun. 23-year-old Specialist Sergeant Süleyman Kul has been a martyr in the trap of traitors. A while ago, he attended the funeral of Bekir Kelletci, a martyr of Eynesilli, and walked in front of his friend's photograph, and was leading the fight against traitors. We remember our martyr, Solomon, as all heroes who were martyrs for the unbreakable integrity of the land, with respect, mercy, and gratitude, and I ask God's mercy, and the life of his family, his people, and our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0021par0104	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0022par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Our legendary President, our Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit, completes his poem about the battle of Çanakkale: six graves of heaven and the six graves of Çanakkale -- the bodies that have been fused in the finished graves. /Let him sleep in peace in the land they've been fighting in/fighting, far from hatred, who are friendly together./But let's see, today's political power, our country, our nation, our national festivals, our victories, and the politics of polarization, has become a failure to gain political gains from this place. We, Republican People's Party members, honor the 101st year of the Çanakkale Black Wars with the spirit that our martyrs, who lie in Khanakkale, entrusted to us and held us together as a nation.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0021par0108	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0023par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Due to the Syrian war, the recent migration wave indicates that a significant part of those entering the city as asylum seekers of Hatay Province are jihadists, including the origins of Central Asia, North Africa and Caucasus. As it is known, the village of Büğülmez and Yayladağı Kheveççi in Reyhanlı district is one of the busiest places of illegal crossings. Are Turkishmen really the nationalities of those who were caught in detected illegal crossings and often referred to as Turkmen in the press? What kind of transactions have been made about these people? Are there measures for these forbidden crossings? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0024par0113	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0025par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, wish you all the best, to congratulate the team of our neighboring province, Adanaspor, on their debut in the First League. Our government is making necessary appointments to employ fellow martyrs, families of martyrs, relatives of the state, and this is the right decision. However, while these appointments are being made, relatives of the deceased must be appointed to state institutions according to their professions. The last two martyrs from Mersin were appointed to be our relatives. One of them has been assigned to ISKUR, a forest engineer, and one of our officers who should be working at ISKUR has been assigned to the Forest Regional Directorate. I believe that the necessary arrangements should be made and that each family member must be assigned to an institution of his own occupation during the appointment. I want our ministers to do the proper work on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0026par0119	Mr. Mountainer...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0027par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has come to Adana with a blessed foot and shared with us three beautiful joys. He opened the Floodbrain Termic Plant, an investment of $1.1 billion. First of all, I wish him well. He also opened 50 factories in the Organised Industrial Region of Adana. I also congratulate all the technical committees, football players, presidents and fans of our champion Adanaspor. And again, congratulations to our Adana champion of tennis, Çağla Büçakekey. I also want to wish our Adana Demirspor well on his way to the championship. Once again, my own district team congratulates Kozanspork on his success in staying in the cluster after a great battle, and I hope we all play together in the next round. Thank you, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0028par0129	Mr. Gökdağ...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0029par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. He began in Nizip, feeding on the dam, the canal, and the rainwater, which ended in the villages of Curly, Carnfil, Karkamiş. Although the pumping from the River Firat was completed six years ago, there was no pumping. The dam, which should water 17 villages, is watering the land of 3 villages. Because of the drought, products in the plains of Barak are in danger of the institution. We need to find a solution to this problem as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0030par0134	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0031par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Erzurumspor, the only representative in the east of the First League, was the undefeated champion in his past, and, unfortunately, he quickly fell down to Amateur League for his financial troubles in the early 2000s and caused a great deal of grief in our province. This year, he has been a source of moral support for our city because of his return from the Third League to the Second League. I sincerely celebrate the championship of our team, and I congratulate the executives, technical team and football players who have worked in this championship, but above all, I congratulate the Erzurumspor community of Erzurumspor, the Erzurum, the Erzurumspor community, the Erzurum community, who made great sacrifices in summer and winter without saying too close to each other, and who met up with about 30,000 viewers last week.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0030par0138	Finally, Mr. Gündüz, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0032par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, summer is here, sickle season has begun. Our centipede is a province that meets 4 per cent of Turkey in the direction of the grain barn. There was a TMO recently, unfortunately, who couldn't get the crops. Again, our farmers are applying to the TMOs at this time, asking for their crops to be harvested, but we also see that they are partially harvested. I want the same victimhood never to happen in our province again. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0033par0143	Thank you. Mr. Baluken, I give you my word by two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0034par0147	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, the gang attacks against our province have been going on for months, and unfortunately, despite all our persistent demands, we don't have a chance to find out what's going on at the church border except what's on the media. Although we've been calling for government officials to come and inform the Assembly, inform the public of the Parliament about the attacks on the Parliamentary General Assembly almost every day for the past two weeks, unfortunately, cabinet officials and ministry officials have not responded in any way to our request so far, and the attacks against the Church are continuing in the same way. There have been 47 gang attacks against the Church in the past three months -- 17 people lost their lives by the 47 attacks, 6 of them Syrian immigrants, the rest of them citizens of the Republic of Turkey, our citizens, 61 people -- injured among them. Despite all these attacks, we still face a government that prevents gangs from naming these attacks. In a nutshell, the coming stage is that the security of the lives and property of our people in the Church and our Syrian brothers, who have taken refuge in it for the sake of their safety, has been completely eliminated as a result of the policies imposed by the AKP government. We condemn these attacks. Once again, we call upon the government to inform Parliament and Turkey's public opinion. On the other hand, the security forces that attacked the people of the Church immediately after the attacks...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0035par0153	Please, let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0034par0154	We would also like to say that we find the approaches of the security forces attacking the democratic protests of the people of the church unacceptable. Mr. President, there was a racist, segregating, fascist attack on Amedspor, who defeated Ankara power 2-1 yesterday. In fact, it was an attack on the entire Amedspor community and on the entire group of fans. It is important in sports to show what level racism, discrimination and violence have become. We say that we condemn this attack, that the spirit of violence, racism, discrimination in sports should be abandoned, and that it should be brought forward. In this sense, we are also condemned as the People's Democratic Party for the rise of Adanaspor to the Super League. [[C]] Finally, we invite the AKP's government to be sensitive on the basis of contributing to the solution of its problems, rather than pressuring the Adana farmers, that we find the attack on farmers who used the right to democratic protest yesterday in Adana unacceptable.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0036par0158	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0037par0159	The transcripts are wrong, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0036par0160	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0038par0161	Just a moment, Mr. President. If you could make a correction. You've testified that you've condemned him. You might want to correct him.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0039par0163	Why do you condemn the title of Adanaspor? Your tongue must have slipped, huh?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0040par0164	Wait a second.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0041par0165	Mr. President, can you turn on the microphone?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0040par0166	Let's turn on the microphone, Mr. Baluken. I think there's been a misunderstanding. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0041par0170	I've expressed that we are celebrating the championship of Adanaspor.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0042par0171	It's like, "We're getting angry."
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0041par0172	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0042par0173	That's what happened.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0041par0174	It must have been a slip of the tongue.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0043par0175	Maybe.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0041par0176	So, as the People's Democratic Party, we congratulate them on the arrival of Adanaspor to the Super League, wishing our people in all Adana the best of luck.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0043par0177	Thank you. Mr. Sky, I'll give you two minutes plus one minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0044par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. We have martyrs again, I'm afraid. Every day, each time we speak, we begin with the sadness of reporting on our martyrs, but reminding that we have two martyrs in Nusaybin and that such a trauma has caused a great deal of pain in Turkey, I ask God's mercy to our martyrs and to all our nation. In the 101st year of the Çanakkale land wars, I say we respect all our brave soldiers and veterans, including the 57th Regiment. We can't accept violence in sports. The attack on the referee and the attacks on the Amusporan executives are never acceptable in Ankara. We say we condemn violence in sports. Once again, I would like to point out that we also congratulated the Adanaspor team, which led to the First League, and also condemned the police attack on the potato manufacturers who marred the glorious exit of Adana. Besides, Mr. President, what's happening in the church? So far, 17 of our citizens have been killed by rockets or other armed vehicles launched by ISIS from outside the Church. In the church, our people have no security and property. While the people of the church are trying to put on a show for peace, the police are trying to suppress this show. But police, law enforcement, it's their job to protect the safety of the people of the Church. We're waiting for a minister to make a statement here. The government says, let's be cool, we'll prevent things, but 17 of our citizens have lost their lives. Turkey is almost at war in the middle of an attack from ISIS, where it is not in itself. Who's going to answer for these 17 people? What's going on in the church?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0045par0189	Let's wrap it up. I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0046par0192	I mean, it's not an acceptable painting. The churchmen are concerned about the safety of lives and property, and life has stopped. The Deputy Prime Minister is down there, 100 meters away, so let's be cool. So, how will the Militia be cool? How long do we expect our citizens to die, a painting that 17 people lost their lives, a painting that the Council of Ministers couldn't prevent, a painting that Turkey couldn't prevent? In a painting like this, I'd like to say that we strongly condemn the government. It has become clear to us how far the invisible ISIS threat has reached. They haven't heard ISIS, ISIS now reminds and shows itself. They have to prevent it as a government. With respect.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0047par0195	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0048par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. I commemorate our Erol Güngör, who has demonstrated the joy of intellectuality based on the ideas, science, art and cultural sources of the Turkish civilization, which sees nationalism as a civil trial that makes national culture itself a source of civilization, which prevents our nation from becoming an open market for degenerate change. May his place be in heaven. Unfortunately, again, we had martyrs this weekend. In fact, at any given moment, we are all concerned about when we have a martyr. I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs, but to the truth, unfortunately, our province of Kilis faces the attacks and missile attacks of the ISIS terrorist organization, and continues to take lives. Unfortunately, the people of the Church are very restless. The church is a border town. The frontier is the honor and honor of our beloved nation, but unfortunately, these missiles that are thrown from our borders are the death of the people there. So, in this regard, they demand that the President and the Prime Minister carry out their duties in order to use all the resources available in their hands to end these attacks immediately. I, too, have expressed these demands of the Militia as the National Movement Party Group. As a nationalist movement party, we also sent a delegation to the church. We're with the people of the Church in this frame, but the Church seeks peace. Indeed, any attempt to disturb this peace must be done, and peace must be made.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0049par0203	Let's finish, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0048par0204	On the other hand, I'm celebrating Adanaspor, they're in the Super League. And I wish the Adanas well. Thank you for your promise, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0049par0206	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Cakir, please.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0050par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. We left a nice weekend behind. We've all celebrated the 96th anniversary of the opening of our coven. As friends of different parties, different political views, there were good programs, talks, talks; we were pleased, proud. In the same way, we understood the holiday of our children. On the other hand, at the end of the week, there were some good memorial meetings about the Canakkale wars, and then again, the paintings of our chests swelled, and we were sad at times, and our eyes moistened. I -- we've started a new week -- and I wish this week would be a successful week of inspection and living week. On the other hand, like our other friends -- the sports competition is slowly ending -- we congratulate Adana, the First League. Other than that -- the Erzurumspor that I know of -- we also congratulate our team, who's in their leagues, who's in the top league, and we wish each one of them a success. Of course, we wish and wish for fair play to prevail in all competitions. When it comes to social sciences in Turkey, I remember the late Erol Güngör, who was always at a leading point. He's written a lot of books, but especially about society, culture and nationalism, and inspired by his teacher, they're still very unsubstantiated, very valuable texts, and they continue to shed light on us. On this occasion, I bless Erol Güngör. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0051par0215	Thank you, Mr. Cakir. Members of Parliament, we, first of all, congratulate all the teams that are in the upper league: Adanaspor, Erzurumspor, Kozelispor, Kırıkkalespor, and all the teams that we can't mention here, we congratulate once again on their success in a new league and in their new places. Again, there's no way to approve of the violence in sports. And I want to say once again that we don't approve of violence in a sport that actually means peace, that we have to prioritize fair play as well as sports. Again, on this occasion, in the 101st year of Canakkale, we remember all our heroes and martyrs once again with respect, mercy, and gratitude. We wish that the spirit of unity of Çanakkale will last forever. We condemn, of course, these attacks against the Church, and we do not approve. I want to say once again that we, the people of the Church, will always be there for you as Congress. Again, in the same way, on the weekend, on Saturday, we had the anniversary of an historic event all over Turkey. Beautifully, the celebrations were held. We have all enjoyed the pride of understanding the 96th year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's establishment, the adoption of our national sovereignty, and the festival of all the world's children, National Sovereignty and Children's Day. Our House will continue to implement the rule of national will and law tomorrow, as it is today, without accepting any custody or tyranny. In carrying out the legislature, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which operates in the process of carrying out democracy, is also in the effort to do so in the best possible way, with the support and representation of its nation in our country, where modern, democratic law principles are being exalted for national sovereignty today. Again, it is our most important duty to maintain the values that we celebrate as the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, which have brought to our nation on April 23rd, to bring that consciousness to new generations. It is our greatest wish that our children, who are our most precious possession, will live in this land, where peace, love, and brotherhood will reign forever. Again, with these thoughts and feelings, I congratulate you on the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of April 23rd of our beloved nation and all our children. I salute and thank you all for this beautiful gift, for peace, for our children, for the sake of Turkey, where peace, love, and brotherhood have become a means of meaning. Let's move on to the agenda. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Constitution, in order to determine measures that could be taken ahead of a possible earthquake disaster in our country. [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] 5) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 6) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] 11) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Adana]] 14) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] [[Aydın]] [[Balıkesir]] One of the major natural disasters on Earth is the earthquake. Earthquakes continue to affect human life and activities in different ways around the world. Our country is located on one of the generations of earth's active earthquakes. There are many fractures in our country. Hence, many earthquakes have occurred from the past to our present, causing loss of life and property and continuing to occur. In our country's earthquakes, nearly 100,000 people have died since the 1900s alone, and nearly a million buildings have been destroyed or severely damaged. The seismic dangers expected to affect the scholarship and its nearby environment will be caused by earthquakes on the following faults: 1) Earthquakes with faults in the Sea of Marmara, 2) The earthquake in the gay-Iznik fault, 3) Earthquakes that will occur in the vicinity of Bursa. The earthquake, which is expected to be in the Sea of Marmara, will be located 60km away from Bursa. With the marmara faults broken, Bursa and her environment will be severely affected. The Gayve-Iznik fault has not been broken for the past five hundred years, so it is now known that it is a great risk for him as an active fault. It is not known which faults have been broken in earthquakes that have occurred in the historic period of scholarship and around it, and how long the times of the earthquakes have been repeated. However, in view of the topography he created, earthquakes that could have been around him will usually develop along the short-sized faults. Fays, about 26 to 30km long, bordering the Yenişehir basin from northwest to southeast, are a risk to the region. During these faults, mid-sized earthquakes are expected to occur. In 1999, the main reason for the heavy damage caused by the two major and devastating earthquakes was the wrong choice of places, the unplanned, project-free, distorted urbanization and control-free construction. The vast majority of the buildings available in Bursa are illegal structures. This current stockpile of structures, free of any kind of control and unsubstantiated to earthquakes, is vitally mortgaged the future of our city and our people. This is a national issue that must be resolved, and unless it's resolved, the future earthquakes are bound to be a disaster. 16 years after the devastating Marmara earthquake, no serious work was done by local and central executives. The first-degree earthquake zone, Bursa, is expecting a major earthquake. He must be looked after differently, and he must be contacted immediately by the authorities in order to provide foreign-source loans for the province of Bursa. It is known that Bursa is an industrial city and a city that has migrated from abroad and abroad in large quantities. In a possible earthquake, the loss of lives and goods in Burma will bring Turkey back at least 25 or 30 years. In the future, what must be done to ensure that our country and our city's earthquakes survive with minimal loss of life and material damage may simply be listed as follows: The existing building stock in the entire city must be repaired. In order to strengthen existing buildings, external loans and legal infrastructure must be prepared. The habit of illegal building must be stopped. Urban transformations must be ensured in a healthy and aesthetic manner. There shouldn't be any more Doğanbey TOKI scandals in Bursa, and if possible, those freaky structures must be destroyed and aesthetic and solidified. Our citizens must be strengthened by the earthquake consciousness. To build an earthquake-resistant building, the ground selection and ground ethics must be made more sensitive, project construction and the implementation of these projects according to technical requirements. A parliamentary investigation must be launched to determine the measures to be taken to address the above-level problems. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We move from countries such as Bosnia, Kosovo, Macedonia, Serbia-Montenegro, Greece, Romania, Moldova to our country, where they have settled, gained dual citizenship or citizen status, and have been granted temporary permission to investigate all kinds of problems of Balkan immigrants in our country, and to take necessary measures under the Constitution's 98th, Internal Charter 104 and 105th Articles. [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] 5) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 6) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] 11) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Osmaniye]] 15) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] 16) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Kayseri]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] [[Mersin]] From the end of the 18th century in particular, Asia Minor has been confronted with the ongoing exodus movement, which has grown at specific intervals. A significant number of our Turkish bloodlines have been inhabited in areas outside the Anatolian territory as a result of the migrations, which began with the establishment of the Ottoman Empire and were encouraged as a policy for the expansion and growth of the state. Established as a modern state, the Republic of Turkey has taken over immigration issues as an inheritance from its past, and policies have been developed and implemented to resolve the problem through systematic work. In the Republic era, the major migration movement began in 1922 and lasted until 1949, as a change of Turkish-Greek peoples according to the Lausanne Agreement provisions. With this change, 400,000 Turks from 100,000 families have come and settled in Anatolia. Between 1952 and 1969, 24,625 people from Greece, from 7,600 free immigrants, emigrated to Turkey. Between 1923 and 1995, 25 per cent of the population that emigrated to Turkey constitutes immigrants from Greece, and most of them are immigrants who come as Muslims. In the years following the formation of the Republic, the second major wave of migration to Anatolia came from Bulgaria. Migrations from Bulgaria continued at intervals until 1989. 790,717 people came from Bulgaria, making up 48 per cent of all immigrants coming into the country during the Republican period. There has been a massive wave of migration from Bulgaria in 1989, when our Bulgarian counterparts were forced by the Bulgarian government to emigrate to Turkey. Our family members have been left at the Turkish border in mass. After World War II, Turkey had to accept this most intense and mandatory migration movement in Europe within about three months. A total of 77,431 families migrated from Yugoslavia to Turkey in the Republic period. Again, 79,287 members of Romania's 19,865 families came to Turkey as resident immigrants from 1923 to 1949. In accordance with the demands of our immigrant citizens who have emigrated to our country, through marriage, through tourist visas and so on, initiatives should be made to our relatives who have come to the Republic of Turkey and who later passed on their Turkish citizenship; in particular the fact that they were born in Balkan countries and later lost their citizenship through immigration; in case we have an emergency issue with those who have lost their citizenship; in order to ensure that our children be granted visas, long-term visa visas, and visa exemption options be used by long-term states concerned; in order to ensure that our fellow citizens be able to be able to borrow their work abroad; in particular terms of Turkish work; in particular terms of the BAL-GC; in terms of those who have lost their citizenship; in the case of those countries who have lost their citizenship; in order to be granted asylum, in order to provide for their long-termunity, in order to provide for their health, in order to be placed in order to be placed in order to be granted visas, in order to be granted by the country; in order to be placed in order to be granted by the country; in order to be granted by which is to be placed in the right to be placed in the right to be placed by the right to be placed by the right to be in the right to be placed by the right to the right to the right to be placed by the right to be in the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right of the right to the right of the right of the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to be in the right of the right to the right to the right to the right of the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right to the right to the right to the right to the right of the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the For all these problems to be identified and resolved, a parliamentary investigation must be opened. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition, we would like to propose the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution to determine the issues of rail system and railway transport, which are vital to our country, and to determine the measures to be taken, including legal arrangements for this. [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] 5) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] 11) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] 12) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Mersin]] The railways in our country were fundamental in Turkey's development moves from the first years of the republic to the beginning of World War II. The delivery system, viewed as an essential part of our daily life, has a constant impact on society with its economic and social inputs. In the developed countries, the railway is ranked number one in passenger transport. Transport in the United States and Europe is mainly made by railways. In fact, in these countries, railways have become competitive with airlines. Airports are out of town. It's been a long time since we've reached these areas. The railway stations are in the city. In addition, railway transport is relatively low for the airline at the cost of transportation. In our country, railway transport is inadequate, and more roads are being used. In the pre-Republic period, the railways, which serve foreign companies, under their control and foreign economies, in the form of political interests, were structured for national interests in the post-Republic period. The road has been seen as a system that will sustain and complement the railway in its transport policies until 1950. However, at a time when the roads of land were to be built to complement and support the railways, Marshall helped to begin building the roads as if they had been ignored. As a result of the transport policies of these years, in their subsystems, in the post 1960s planned development period, the targets for the railways were unfortunately never achieved. As a result of our country's misguided transport policies, land transport has been weighted rather than railway and naval transport. In developed countries, this is the opposite. In our country, most of the land roads are located in the middle of the first-class agricultural plains, created by living faults. From the 1980s to today, the highways that were built to destroy our national wealth, our plains, have increased our dependency on the outside. Without further ado, our country must prioritize transportation to the railways instead of the roads. The post-1980 projects, referred to as the highway era, were also misdirected, ignoring scientific facts. In addition, the economic life of the railway is as high as 30 years, and the low economic life of the highway (the highway) is as low as 15 years, showing that the railways are more efficient in comparison with the amount of investment/related life. The energy consumed on the highway is 2 to 5 times greater than the railways. There is an opportunity for electrical energy to be used in railways, which is cheaper, less energy-dependent than energy forms such as energy, fuel-oil and gasoline. Also, it does not cause pollution. With freight transport shifted to the railways, the cargo of the roads will be reduced, accidents will be reduced to minimal. The transport of explosives and dangerous materials such as LPG, gas, and gas will increase the security of transportation from roads to roads of land. Accidents on highways have also shown that highways do not have much transportation security. There is still no railway transport in the province of Bursa, which is Turkey's fourth-largest city and contributes greatly to our country's economy. Every province of our country, especially our province of Bursa, must be made a railroad at once. A parliamentary investigation must be launched to determine and resolve these problems. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, there's a motion for a gene, and I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Because of the ecological destruction of Cerattepe, Green Road, North Marmara Highway and other major projects, we propose the opening of a geneor under Article 106 of the Constitution's 98th and 99th and TBMM Administration. HDP Deputy Chair HDP Group Deputy Chair Legal regulations have been made to dominate and govern market logic in relations with nature in order to ensure short-term profits, ignoring ecological destruction and vital threats to public health created during the AKP period. In terms of the development date of hydroelectric plants (HES) in Turkey, Law 4628 corresponds to a turning point. As of 2003, the Agreement on Water Rights Act 4628, which was adopted under the Power Market Act, and under the following legal regulations, has been handed over to the private sector without control of the rights of all rivers in Turkey, and the establishment and expansion of capital control over nature has been made legal. The data published on the DSI General Directorate website shows that the number of HES built by the private sector by 2003 was 86, while 422 HES were taken into operation following 2003. In a nutshell, 82 per cent of the HES existing in Turkey took place during the 13 years when Mr. Minister was responsible for many areas from water to forest, weather to weather, of course, until life was protected. "Renewable energy" is the basis of a major ecological destruction, as it is the result of a multidimensional intervention in the balance of nature, which creates the illusion of "invulnerable" and lacks a holistic water policy based on the planning of the basin, where every point of all streams is divided into parts, and is built in an uncontrollable and unmanageable way. In an intervention in the creek bed, life in and around it is severely damaged, hundreds of endemic species are being destroyed, the base water and underground water levels are being tampered with, the surrounding trees are being cut down, the forest quality is falling and the erosion is opening, the type of agricultural products are changing, in short, natural balance created by thousands of years of processes, natural slaughters are being carried out under the name HES. On August 24, 2015, the flood that killed eight of our citizens in Hopa is an artificial disaster created in the ecosystem that we've described above by these destructions and irresistibly designed projects, free of control and scientific data. In the face of these deaths stemming from the fields of direct responsibility, Mr. Secretary has been able to avoid the situation for all reasons. The country's energy policy on hydropower plants is that in its speech on World Water Day 2010, we have fluid, which is wasted. We can't look at it when the water is flowing. It means that the water is based on its base in vain, and in the same speech, the cheap term is wrong, it has to be removed from the ligament. In the form of the capital group, it is based on scientific data and non-integrated policies that are carried out in terms of the needs of the capital group. In particular, the processes of environmental impact assessment (SED) reports reveal the unlawfulness of these policies against nature and society. Despite the damage that can be seen, investors can easily receive CED reports and are able to use the environment in a brutal manner -- many projects for HES installations -- without EDs and/or exemptions -- are approved. There are projects that continue to be built despite the court's decision to stop the execution. The most recent example for CED reports and irregularities in processes is the mining activity in the district of Cerattepe, Artvin Province. In Cerattepe, where thousands of trees are in danger of being destroyed, the protests by the people who do not want mining activity will be violently suppressed, while the Minister says, "There will be work in a very small woodland." In his statement, he stated that he would take a stand for capital and tree parts. In 1992, nearly 3 million trees will be cut down as part of the North Marmara Highway Project, which includes the third bridge and the third airport, described by İstanbul Metropolitan Mayor Recep Tayyip Erdogan as "murder against Istanbul," and will produce irreversibly devastating consequences on the last natural habitats in the north of the city, with the project completed. The Green Road is one of the other large-scale projects that will cause all kinds of construction under the name tourism and damage the Black Sea's natural forest by destroying the forests. A minister in charge of water and forest will be able to replace the ecological balance of trees and forest massacres over hundreds of years. With his approach, he will be able to solve the problems that we have explained above, proving that he has failed to fulfill the need and responsibility of his position. It has been presented to your knowledge. The day of talks on the agenda of the motion will be adopted at the recommendation of the Council of Counsellors. If there is no recommendation from the Council of Ministers, it will be brought up at the end of the constitutional term by the President's office. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party Group now has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Monday 25/4/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 14 January 2016, İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu and his friends (605 rows no. lu) has been suggested that the parliamentary inquiry proposed to the Turkish Parliament for all dimensions of violations against the basic rights of public labourers, particularly the freedom of expression and pressure and threats against public workers, be read in the same session Monday (25/4/2016), and that the talks be met in the same date, as well as presented in a joint meeting of the General Assembly for the information of the General Assembly. In favour of the proposal, the first word belongs to Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0052par0444	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, our party group's motion is to investigate pressure and threats against public workers. Public workers, without a doubt, have no other capital in this country that they can sell beyond their efforts and invest their daily lives while running public service. Public workers may have secured their labor, their knowledge, and the future of their children, in a way, but public workers are facing a severe situation, which is aimed at depriving them of their future by the state's authority, despite the fact that their future is being guaranteed to serve them in public service. Dear friends, as you know, union rights include freedom of organization, collective contracting, and strike rights, and, again, basic rights, such as freedom of thought and expression from international contracts and the Constitution. Again, with contracts 87 and 98, which the International Labour Organization has adopted as 2 of the 8 basic contracts, the rights must be actually secured. These agreements, signed by Turkey and sided by the Constitutional Court, are also under the Constitutional provisions, as they cannot be claimed to be in violation of these contracts, which are in accordance with Article 90 of the Constitution. Again, valuable friends, national and international courts, particularly the European Court of Human Rights, on the basis of Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights, particularly the Swedish Union of Locomotive Drivers and Sweden's Government, and again, Schmidt and Dahlström and the Swedish Government, have concluded that the right to the Union shall protect its members' professional interests through the collective act of the union. Contractor states must allow common actions, make their course and development possible. I mean, union rights... at the same time, the European Court of Human Rights concluded that the government should personally encourage, enable, allow, allow, allow all rights born of this union by the sovereign or entity state. Well, let's see what the AKP's government is doing under the circumstances we're in today. You know, on February 17th, there's a generalization published by the Prime Minister. In this general, all rights of public employees, from their union rights to freedom of expression, have been removed from the field of justice and subject to an investigation between the two lips of their superiors. Dear friends, the AKP is constantly, under the guise of securing public safety, in fact, under this cover, today in our country, to our people, to the workers, to the poor, and most importantly, to the public workers who personally serve the state's services and services, perhaps the darkest period in the history of the republic. See, there is no progress in cases related to the murder of Suruç, Diyarbakır, Tahir Evoş again, and today, in the February 17th Prime Ministerial General Assembly, there are amazing investigations in the form of genocide against businesses such as occupational rooms, TMMOB, Turkish Medical Association, and even more serious, in the form of genocide against public workers. Investigations have been launched on more than 5,000 members of Education-SEN since February 17th alone. From December 29th to the day of the layoff, this number is more than tens of thousands. Dear friends, these illegal practices that AKP is implementing today against public workers are at a level that exceeds what happened during the September 12th military coup, and even spans them during February 28th. The AKP's government, of course, has punished hundreds of people in districts such as Cizre, Silopi, Sur, with tanks, collect them, in basements of atrocities -- decent, burned and unrecognisable -- in public, against the political rhetoric of AKP, against every public worker who utters a single word and a single sentence, with various punishments, in some way taking them out. For example, the kinds of punishments were so advanced that not only did they stop firing, banishment, or gradual progress, but when they couldn't make up that legal case, this time the warning fines, cutting money out of wages, again the administrative fines, the suspension, the incredible, the unthinkable practices that left these workers facing. For example, hundreds of public workers, especially members of the EDUCATION-SEN, were again banished from the jurisdiction of their own superiors, only by administrative decisions. I can give you hundreds of examples here, but for example, the first thought -- perhaps specific -- from Nihat Macit Ağeşaşaşa; Kemal Kürkçü, Fecri Aydın, Mehmet Emin Kaya, Asim Sun Milli Education Ministry decision, 950km away from Ağrı, Kayseri, Osmaniye, Gümüşhane provinces... For example, they were sentenced to progressive progress: an employee has been sentenced to one year in progress for protesting the arrest of the mayors of Mus Blurq. For example, because he used his right to strike under basic rights and freedoms, Ağrı İbrahim Chechn University has again been relieved of his post as a public worker in the Department of Permanent Education. There are suspensions, there are people who have been deputized, and there are all of these practices, as I've just stated, that the AKP was put into effect on February 17th, and that AKP is equal to the state, the AKP is equal to the state -- which identifies itself with the state of the Republic of Turkey -- that is, every reflex in the society -- that is the AKP's government, such as public security, national security, in fact, which identifies itself with the state of Turkey, and declares the state of the AKP as the state of Turkey as the state of the AKP. It is based on the General Staff of Public Workers Who Threaten National Security and Buildings, which took effect on February 17th. In fact, it is an unconstitutional summary of the Constitution, which has no basis for national or international proportions. I hope that our motion, the High Council, the Council... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and the General Assembly votes in a positive way, and that sacrifice will be eliminated. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0053par0460	Thank you. The first word against the proposal belongs to Zechariah Birkan. Here you go, Mr. Birkan.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0054par0464	Mr. President, very dear MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against HDP's group proposal. First of all, I would like to read the conclusion of the generalization of 17/2/2016, which is published by the Prime Minister's Office, above which the officers and public employees are told of their duties: with this dignity, it states that public resources and resources are to be used or used to support these organisations or structures, who are associated with illegal structures under the legal or illegal look, or who are in the organisation or in the organization's organization, who are in the action union, and who are acting under the orders and direction of these structures, and they are to continue to conduct administrative and to support these organisations and structures. Highly valued MPs, as you all know, a state's most important right to sovereignty and sovereignty is its most important manifestation of the state's public order in its country. A state must maintain public order as a natural right of its sovereignty in its own country, and while maintaining public order, it does so by means of legal and legitimate powers that take its origin from the law. I mean, in a country, only legitimate armed forces are the powers of the state, legitimate structures, but state structures and state organs that take the source from the law. All other powers are illegal, illegitimate. Those who act against public order, armed or unarmed, are always illegal, terrorists, and if they have committed a crime, they are murderers. The rule of law is a very important concept, and the state takes its power from the law when it moves. As I have just stated, those who act outside the legitimate armed forces of the state and those who support them are against the law. Using legal terms, blessing the terrorist who kills innocent people as a living bomb, murdering civilians, destroying public order, and forgiving him is as immoral as it is a crime to praise terror by talking about the right to work, the right to work, the basic rights and freedoms behind them. Dear MPs, the state must maintain public order. No one is untouchable in that sense. Not the public officials, not the unionists, not the academics, everyone who commits the crime has to answer for it in a legal way, in front of the state. Those who act on the actions and instructions of illegal organisations, terrorists, terrorist organizations, not public order, as I have just said, will give their accounts before the law. My dear fellow lawmakers, I've just said that the foundation of the state is law. There are legal ways to strike, to quit. I mean, there's a public servant, a teacher, a unionist, anyone who works in the government, if he's going to strike, if he's going to quit, how he's going to do it is in our laws. Nobody cheats on anybody. No one can take action or action against our government at their request, under the legal-looking illegal structures and works of terror organizations or terrorist organizations. And when they are, the state will answer for it in law, as I just said. The generality and investigations carried out are legal investigations. The generalisation is a Prime Minister's generalization. The rules of legal control are available. Again, investigations are not illegal investigations, they are legal investigations. No one is being executed illegally. They're fighting terrorism, they're fighting crime. Those who act against public order, against the law, are once again judged by law enforcement, and those who commit such crimes will always pay in public, in front of the law. As I just said at the beginning of my speech, a war on terrorism is being waged in our country today. Those who support terrorism, praise terrorists, look out for them, act according to their instructions and goals, who violate the law, will give their accounts in front of the law again. The generalizations, the investigations, are within the law. As a result, those who commit crimes against public order, those who act, those who act illegally will be tried. In light of these statements, the People's Democratic Party declares that we oppose the group proposal, and I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0055par0475	I'm not suggesting...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0056par0476	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0055par0477	Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0056par0478	Sir, in fact, the orator, outside of our proposal and my speech, has distorted the content of our motion and the content of my speech, not to public workers, but to, you know, defend an armed organization or terrorist organization, as if we were defending the public workers who helped him. I want a promise.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0055par0479	Now, Mr. Adıyaman, I listened carefully to the preacher. He spoke to you differently, I agree with that. Each orator expresss a difference of opinion on each subject. But when he explained that, without saying anything about yourself or your group, he came forward with his opinion on this proposal. I've listened to this very clearly, and if I'd seen that kind of bullying, I would have made a promise, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0056par0480	Well, I mean, Mr. President, the motion...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0055par0481	But...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0056par0482	Look...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0055par0483	I mean, let's talk the same way I do. We don't have a chance to say it! For every orator.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0056par0484	Not in the same way, but in total conversation...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0055par0485	Now, you spoke in favor, he spoke out. So that's how he's going to declare his convictions.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0056par0486	I mean, there's teasing. I'd like a two-minute word, sir, according to 69.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0055par0487	I mean, I didn't see anything out of the political criticism that looked like a tease. I'll promise the next speakers. I can ask for the transcripts if you want, but there's no bullying. Yes, the second word in favour of the proposal belongs to Istanbul MP Yakup Akkaya. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0057par0491	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group for the People's Party's Committee on the investigation of violations against public workers. First of all, I salute you all with love and respect. Dear lawmakers, we are destroyed every day with news of martyrdom. The news of the two new, fresh martyrs has also come from Nusaybin. Once again, I ask God's mercy on our martyrs, my condolences on their families. Dear lawmakers, no matter what we talk about in Congress, no matter what law we try to break, no matter what Parliament can't stop the blood flowing in our country, no one can make peace in our country, and if every day we're giving the opening of the House to our martyrs, how does it make sense, what kind of work does it take to do in this Parliament? If our country's main problem is the lives of our people, if we all accept this together, it's to create a country without martyr news, without killings, this Parliament's primary mission, this Parliament should be able to do it. We always say our differences are our wealth, and we need to see it. This Parliament should be able to demonstrate the will to resolve our common problems with common sense. When we look at the history of our Veteran Assembly, we can do this. Dear lawmakers say that the basis of the state is law in the AKP's orator talk. It's true. If the government doesn't obey the law, it's where the salt smells. What do we do if it smells like salt? If the President says I don't know the Constitution in this country, who will invite the President to go to law?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0058par0495	I don't know the President. He didn't say.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0057par0496	So, if we're talking about law and justice here, first the Justice and Development Party, the government's practices, should be in accordance with the law. So, look at the privatisation decisions, look at the court decisions, we see that the Justice and Development Party doesn't comply with those decisions. Here, look at Mr. President. I don't know the Constitution. He says.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0058par0497	He didn't say that!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0059par0498	I don't know the Constitution. He didn't say it.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0058par0499	Where did he say that?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0060par0500	And how are we going to do about it here as a government? There's a president here who's not true to his oath, and if that's what he's saying...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0059par0501	He didn't say it, he didn't say it. I don't know the Constitution. He didn't say it.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0058par0502	He didn't say!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0061par0503	You don't know what you're saying. I don't know the Constitutional Court's decision.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0062par0504	...and on behalf of the government, on behalf of the AKP, the foundation of the state is the ruling party, which will say the last thing, the law, the law, the law.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0058par0505	But you're twisting it, he didn't say it, our President, you're saying what he didn't say.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0062par0506	My dear friends, valued lawmakers, being organized in our country is remembered as paying the price. It's hard to be a union man in our country. The organisation of labour unions is a problem in itself, but the organisation of officers' unions is only possible with policies close to power. In our country, trade unions, NGOs, struggle for democracy, freedom, rhetoric, activities are considered in this framework. Every right-seeking struggle in our country is considered a coup attempt, considered a terrorist act. This understanding is not the right understanding, it's the understanding of those who can't swallow democracy. Look, in democratic countries, a union, confederation, NGOs can criticize the government's wrong policies, they can even invite the government to resign. In our case, unions, NGOs, democratic organizations, legal organisations may even express their resignation against the government, they may even invite a minister to resign, but immediately they are accused of being coupgers or parallelists. It's the result of an understanding that can't digest democracy. Look, what happens to people who say that? That's what happens to officers' unions. We've lived here for many years. He's being investigated, he's being suspended from his job, he's not being upgraded, he's dealing with exiles, his family's failing. Look, over the last seven months, over 6,000 investigations have been launched against members of the Public Workers' Union alone, members of KESK. The number of investigations, dismissals, and suspension of members of the EDUCATION-SEN is more than 5,000. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's give them their rights together instead of pressuring the employees, and let's all try to protect them together. When we look at it, we've got the current black picture of officers' unions, unions. It is clear how workers are tried to be deceived, and so is the 14-year process. The raises to salaries are vaporized along with inflation figures. The poverty process, which has been living for many years by public workers, continues to grow in 2010. Public employees' rights have also deteriorated. There are no public employees anywhere in the world as different as we are; civil servants, contracted staff, 4/CH people, substitute teachers, paid staff, temporary staff, special staff members, and finally executives being transferred from the private sector. Now, you're also putting together a special status on subcontractors. It's the result of an understanding that most of these people view the citizen as a customer. So how much profit can we make there? Then that's how we'll make the arrangements. That's not an understanding. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important problems of public employees is that they do not have the right to a real collective contract. This collective agreement, which has no right to strike, is not called a collective contract. See, the talks of Public Servants Unions 4688 and the Common Contract Law are also exemplary as an important example. All of you can read the transcripts of the talks of this law that concerns you directly on the website of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The law that comes out is a freaky collective contract law, no strike, no real collective contract, no collective contract talks even taken back from the old law. The president of MEMUR-SEN, of course, is changing, but... there's been such an arrangement that there are over 3 million officers in Turkey, there are 3 confederations, and there are no democratic entities in collective business contracts, just between the two lips of MEMUR-SEN. In the last collective contract of employment, it is also a fact that the officers did not get the difference in inflation and were crushed under inflation. Dear lawmakers, we have these problems, problems, yes, we do. These people are employees of this country. If a stone is laid on a stone in this country, there are workers' sweats, eye-lights, labors. Instead of increasing their problems, let us take steps to resolve their problems; let us not doubt the democratic activities of the unions, but let us respect their demands. So, if there are any flaws, we as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... We support this group proposal given by the People's Democratic Party, and I express once again that we will say yes as the Republican People's Party, and I salute you all with love and respect for the motion by the officers to investigate the situations they've been exposed to. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0063par0517	Thank you, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0064par0518	Mr. President, I just want to say this for the record. I don't know what the President of the Republican People's Party has said. He said that several times. Mr. President does not have such a sentence, as you know, he has only expressed his opinion on the Constitutional Court's decision. I wanted it on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0063par0521	Thank you. Now, the second and final word against the proposal belongs to Antalya MP Mustafa Kose. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0065par0525	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to testify that I have taken a stand against the HDP Group's proposal. You know, the state of the Republic of Turkey is a state of law and is governed by the Constitution, law and law. In particular, our government has been fighting these terrorist incidents in our country in a broad way, especially recently. Part of this struggle is a public struggle with public employees' organization propaganda. Our prime minister's office has issued a general order, 2016/4. A number of measures have been set up for public employees who are associated with organisations and structures that threaten national security in this sector. There has been a generalisation of the activities of public officials who have been associated with or engaged in illegal activities under terrorist organisations or legal appearances, acting under the orders and instructions of these organisations and structures, helping these organisations and structures, using or using public resources to support these organisations or structures, and are also doing the necessary work and doing the necessary work. No one needs to be bothered by this, dear friends. Since the day the EC PARTY came to power, public employees have been performing their duties in the same way as they did in previous times. If a motion is being made here, in effect, how many have been processed, who have been investigated, and therefore how many have been suspended from public office or punished for their activities in public office -- related to investigations? You have to express that, too. Here, our government conducts these efforts by making a statement in terms of fighting public officials who threaten the undivisable integrity of the Republic of Turkey's state, its security and public order, and aim to undermine the state's authority. In this sense, the work is strictly legal, legal, legal. In this regard, I say we are against the HDP proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0066par0532	I submit the proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0067par0533	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit02spe0066par0534	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0066par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough during the vote of the People's Democratic Party group. I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the proposal... Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Monday 25/4/2016 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Vice President This section of Law Proposals 234, 295, 296, 297, 277, 277 and 307 rows, which are included in the "Object of Laws and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" section of the agenda, shall be ranked in the order of 3, 4, 5, 6, 6, 7, 8 and 9 percent of the order of other tasks; Apart from week-to-week working days, Saturday (April 30, 2016) and 2 and May 6, 2016 are scheduled for Mondays and Fridays at 14 p.m. Meeting at 00... today's mergers are to discuss the work involved in the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; Until the meeting of Monday (April 25, 2016) of the 307th Law Proposal until the meeting of the talks; Until the meeting of Tuesday (April 26, 2016) was completed by the Law Bill 87, and the talks were completed; Until the meeting of Wednesday (April 27, 2016) was completed until the meeting of the 10th Amendment; Until the meeting of Thursday (April 28, 2016), until the meeting of the 26th Bill of the Law, the talks were completed; Until Friday (April 29th, 2016) the meeting of the talks of the 30th Amendment was completed; Until the meeting of Saturday (April 30, 2016) was completed by the 32nd Bill of the Law; 3, 10, 17, 24 and 31 May 2016, the meeting of oral questions and other audit issues on Tuesday (May 2016), the talks on "The Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" on the agenda. On Wednesday (May 4, 11, 18 and 25th 2016), the non-verbal questions were discussed. The number-one Gensoru Proclamation (11/9) of the primary published (11/9) is until Monday (May 2nd 2016, when the agenda will be held in the 1st place of "Accessions on Special Agement" and the talks on whether the Constitution will be held on Monday (May 2nd 2016) will be held on the basis of Article 99; and in this merger, it will be completed until the meeting of the 34th draft of the Law. Until the meeting of Tuesday (May 3rd, 2016) was completed until the meeting of the Legislature of Number 36; Until Wednesday (May 4th 2016) the meeting of the talks between the 38th Bill of the Law and its union until the end of its talks; Until the meeting of Thursday (May 5, 2016) of the 40th Bill of Laws until the completion of the talks; Until the meeting of Friday (May 6, 2016) of Friday's merger until the meeting of the 42nd Bill of Laws; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. In the event that the daily schedule is incomplete at 00 hours, it will continue its work until the day program is completed; The Law Proposal 307 is to be considered by Article 91 of the Civil Code and to have its sections in the following pages; It's recommended. On top of the proposal, the first word in favour belongs to Samsun MP Hasan Basri Kurt. Yes, Mr. Hasan Basri Kurt.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0068par0034	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding international contracts given by our very valuable lawmakers, which will be our agenda this week, and the proposal for two fundamental laws to be taken to the front of the agenda. I salute you all. Turkey's visa-free trip to the European Union was scheduled by the end of 2018, signed by the European Union on 16 December 2013. We have commitments to 26 EU member states, including 26 non-EU members and 26 non-EU members, to meet with the European Union this year -- not in 2018, but in 2016 and even on July 1st -- as a result of talks with the European Union. You know, for about a month now, we've been trying to carry out the basic criteria for this, the integration work as Congress, and now we're at the end. With these international contracts and two fundamental laws ahead of us, we hope that our citizens will be able to travel to the Schengen region without visas as of July 1st. What advantage does that have? There's no need to discuss it too much. We also know that other opposition parties have no objection to facilitating visa-free travel to the Schengen area, accelerating it. But I'd like to give you a few digits, very significant. How will that make it easier for our people? To express that, in 2014 alone, 813,000 visas were applied for from Turkey to the Schengen region countries. For the time being, there were only 60 euros worth of applications to consulates, embassies -- a figure of about 60 euros -- which is significant in Istanbul and Ankara. So we'll hopefully have removed all of the travel, the pre-assembled documents, the waiting times, the embassy, the time of waiting outside the consulate door. As of July 1st, our citizen will be able to travel freely to any Schengen region with his passport as if he were entering an area within our own country. I'd like to give you another number. 770,000 of these 813,000 applications were accepted in the Schengen area. So we're going through all this trouble, and we're paying these fees, and our citizens, you know, they're getting up from Samsun, they're getting up from Erzurum, they're going to Ankara, they're going to Istanbul, they're going to the visa line, they're going to collect a bunch of papers, and 95.5% of them are already getting this visa. I mean, it was given to about 770,000 people. The number of people not given is very limited. In fact, we'll be able to open up a way to get what we can easily, without a visa. This was a very serious number when we calculated for 26 countries in the Schengen area by 2018, and it was something that our citizens really needed. In this framework, as I said, we're moving up two basic laws on our agenda, and we're aiming to finish it this week. And today -- again, in our proposal -- the additional protocols of international contracts that we've approved, which we've sided with will come up. On this occasion, we would like all of the Assembly to support, especially the opposition parties, and to give this good news, this good news, to our country, together with the unity that perhaps our Great National Assembly of Turkey needs today. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0069par0041	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. The first word against the proposal is from Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0070par0044	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have received the AKP Group's recommendation. Of course, when we look at the content of this proposal, we think it's a motion that regulates parliament's working hours, predicts a non-functional shift in parliament, and when it's not enough, it puts the Parliament's work at the center outside of the normal working days, which are stated in the Civil Code. For more than a month now, there has been a plan to work on Mondays and Fridays, which is obviously not enough, but is now sending a message that the AKP Assembly will run as it pleases, including Saturdays and weekends. Of course, we're not people who are afraid to work, but we're not people who are afraid to work, so when you look at the overtime of this Assembly, we point out our criticism because it's a program that keeps bringing huge problems to the public during the time we're talking about. For one thing, the reputation of this Assembly, the processes related to Parliament being the solution power have been completely suspended during the AKP period, by the AKP Group itself, and we need to express it. So, there's a heavy war going on inside the country, there's attacks on border cities almost every day, there's concerns about people's lives and property security in the metropolitan cities, and Congress is working, working 24 hours in this whole painting, but it doesn't work out; there's no point in whether you can include Saturdays or Sundays when you don't come up with a solution. You come here, completely, in front of the government, in front of the group with the legal arrangements, and you don't bring any of the agendas that the House should really discuss. Thus, in the eyes of the people, if the Parliament works in the eyes of the people, there is a solution to my problems. When it has perception, it is now working in the Parliament, working in the ruling group, working in the AKP government, working in the direction of the palace. You have established a perception in the form of the palace. This, as I said, is an understanding that renders Parliament completely dysfunctional. Parliament is now completely off the public agenda. Look, for the past two weeks, the main opposition party, the People's Democratic Party, insists that the Assembly should be informed of the attacks on the Church, saying public opinion should be informed. For the past two weeks, the ruling party group, or a cabinet official that they're going to reach out to, has not bothered to show up here and made a statement. And while working until the middle of the night, just like in the fairytale sentences, the three apples fell from the sky, and those fairytale sentences were listed, and somehow rocket bullets fell to Kilis. What's painful is people lose their lives, people get hurt badly. Just now, as the General Assembly opened, I said at the beginning, only from January until now, 17 citizens have lost their lives in the Church, 61 citizens have been seriously injured, and there has not been any information made by the government. When the people of the church go out after these attacks to demonstrate their democratic response, they're always exposed to the gasy, clubbed, watery intervention that we're used to. Now, can you say that the agenda of this Parliament is worth the trouble of the people of the Church, that it's gathering to solve the problems there, that it's being debated? No way. Now, there have been international contracts here about the European Union's homework for visa exemptions with a number of rows at work. Of course, these international contracts are being discussed here, while we, the opposition parties, will use all our rights as stemming from the Civil Code. So if Parliament is open, if these international contracts will be discussed, we will express our views, our opinions, our opinions on the real agendas of international contracts, as well as the public's. But I look at it, sometimes the MPs from the AKP Group, you know, when it's over, let's go home. They're uncomfortable with their understanding, even the opposition's speech. I mean, look, there's no such thing as Parliament. As your deputies always say, we have the law, the law, and the judgment. Yes, indeed, the legislative activities are now under instructions to conduct them completely. Normally, parliament's agenda, working hours, working days are decided by co-organizing the Council of Counsellors, but until now, you, including the 24th Legislature, have not shared this program with the opposition on the Council of Counsellors for one day. The government provides you with a program from there, and you bring it in, and you put it in front of the opposition, and then you get uncomfortable when the opposition talks here or talks about the real problems of the people. Well, there's no way to accept that. Right now, the policies that the AKP government is running inside and out are leading the country to disaster, so you're driving this country into a disaster, unfortunately, like a truck with a brakes out on a cliff as fast as you can. We're dealing with a disaster inside, war at home, war at war, war at war. We're either going to have a proper discussion about this, or we're going to have some technical discussion here, and we're going to watch these problems come in front of our people, and they're going to be huge, and they're going to get bigger, and they're going to come out in front of us. Now, look, here's what's going on inside, we're fighting terrorism, we're maintaining public order... ya, there's no public order, there's no public interest. So as of this hour, go to Şırnak, Yüksekova, Nusaybin, Sur, Silopi, here; there are cities that have been looted, destroyed, almost destroyed; there are cities in the border cities that have been taken away. We, on the other hand, could have prevented these processes from happening before we got here, by putting together some very important work on democratisation, about expanding freedoms, about social peace. When you brought in the Homeland Security Act, we warned you several times. This is not the way to maintain public order. If this is how you say you will maintain public order, you will face the opposite result. We have warned you, but we are faced with a disaster at work today. We're still saying, look, there's got to be a way out of the solution process. In the government, there are those in the cabinet, in the government, who have this directional search within the state, but, unfortunately, here comes the President, and he gives a directive from there, and we will continue to fight until the end. He says, "We will continue to fight until the end." How are we going to come up with a solution like this? Just yesterday, he says, "What agreement is it about the Dolmabahçe agreement?" So, February 28, February 29th, when you looked at his statement, he said how important he thought that agreement was, how he really expected the content of that agreement to be publicized and how he wished for peace in practice. Now, one day after that period, we were waiting patiently, agreeing. The President who said, "Where did this Dolmabahçe agreement come from today?" As someone who's now in that process, I can share any detail here, but there's no way we can describe it to our ethics or political morality. It's about foreign policy. We need radical changes in Syrian and Rojava policy. If you had done what you needed to do instead of doing homework that the European Union has brought to your attention, in terms of human rights, democracy, the state of law, basic rights and freedoms, if you had established a policy that would have preceded peace inside and outside, we would have established a region like the European Union today in our territory. If you had provided a zone with unlimited landmines, fences, free trade, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Rojava, and Kurds, the European Union would have to wait in line to meet us at our door. So, I'd like to express my regret that this agenda, these agendas that you've imposed, has not been resolved. Against that, he says we'll continue to address the public's true agenda from this stand, and we'll continue to call you to sensitivity as much as possible, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0071par0059	Thank you. In favour of the proposal, the second statement belongs to Ankara MP Levent Gök. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0072par0063	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the AKP group proposal. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0071par0064	In your favor, Mr. Sky, please.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0072par0065	We express that we will always strive to work for the interests of our country at every opportunity. Of course, Parliament's working order is being introduced. We, the Republican People's Party, in the process of negotiating with the European Union, have so far contributed to the passing of any legislation that we see in the interests of our country, by taking as much of the acquish of the European Union as we can. No one can deny that. You'll see, together in international agreements. In all the work done, let our country come forward. The Republican People's Party, AKP, MHP, HDP; it may be any party's opinion, but when it comes to the country's interests, the Republican People's Party, the rest of the country, we act with understanding. We strive to share our stimulus, complementary proposals with you at all times. Of course, while we're at it, we expect a sincere approach from the ruling party, my dear friends. Last week you brought the Law on Human Rights and Equality. By abolishing a bill similar to the Law on Human Rights and Equality brought four years ago, four years ago, this is wrong, you will change this law. When we say it, do you not want it? When everyone says, "Now everyone has come to the proposal of the Republican People's Party, you have brought another law; the Law of Human Rights and Equality." You've done wrong again, you're correcting one mistake by mistake. We say it's wrong. Because while you're doing that, you think the European Union will accept the law you brought in. No, my dear friends, they won't admit it, they'll tell you later that what you did was wrong, but it'll be too late. Why don't you listen to the opposition? Why aren't you listening? Bring it in... in many ways, we pass the law in a very comfortable way, in terms we agree, in terms we agree, in which we do not tire Parliament, in the proper atmosphere, in a civilized discussion. There's nothing wrong with that, but it's at the ruling party. Now, the ruling party is bringing in a working order, facing back next week -- so this week. One is a law on the establishment of a law enforcement commission, and the other is a political ethics law. These are the applications that need to be done within the framework of the European Union's acquisitor, but not the ones you brought in. Now, will you listen to us on this? Will you heed our warnings? I say, why doesn't the ruling party accept the Republican People's Party's constructive, appropriate solution proposals? I suppose you want to make it look like you're negotiating with the European Union, but I have a feeling you don't really want to negotiate with the European Union, my dear friends. That's what I think because we see this painting. The international institutions are coming to us, and what do you say about that? The Venice Commission will visit us tomorrow. What are we gonna tell them? E, their reports are important to the European Union, the United Nations, and Turkey is losing face in this framework. You're bringing in the basics. We've talked here 40 times, we've talked a hundred times, so you can give up the bag of laws, the basic laws. My dear friends, how can a 13-point law be the basic law on law enforcement? How can 18 articles of political ethics be the basic law? If you call them the basic law, what about criminal law, civil law, trade law? They're the basic law. It's the legal system that concerns the whole country. So by doing this, you're trying to get the concepts to run the House, which is extremely wrong. As the basic law, bag is the law, so don't bring these laws here, my dear friends. Let's discuss it properly. Look, you put it on Saturday Sundays, we never run away from them; come on, let's work, but your methods are wrong. We've told them many times, but my dear friends, this confusion is so intense in the AKP, the ruling party and the President... now the President is up and what is the Dolmabahçe agreement? Right, guys, that's what he said? A memorandum called Dolmabahçe agreement... a number of lawmakers last year, and you, the AKP's deputy leader, sat in front of Dolmabahçe Palace by their ministers, shook hands, made statements; everything was fine that day. Now, when the Dolmabahçe agreement is made, I share with you the headlines of the pool media. The Star newspaper: the spring of peace. The headline is the day after the Dolmabahçe agreement was made. After that, New Dawn: ▪ The call for farewells to the guns. These are the headlines of the newspapers the next day. In the morning, it is time for peace. My dear friends, these are all made out of headlines. All our citizens have heard it, seen it. I name them so that all the newspapers can see what's done, when, how it's done. Sun newspaper: "Good things happen. " When the Covenant is done, my dear friends, these are the headlines. Again, the Evening newspaper: "My giant step to peace. " The newspaper Milat: "History is being rewritten." My dear friends, we, the Republican People's Party, have expressed our readiness to contribute to the solution of the huge Kurdish problem of our country. However, these processes are not the issues that can be changed according to the ruling party's political conjunctive, but the costs are very heavy. Not only does the ruling party pay for these costs, the president doesn't, we all do, we pay for them. You will take a firm stand on this matter, and you will not leave the people on the road. And we remember the days we called it, dear friends, if you're going to solve this problem. In an instant, these processes, according to daily ideas, according to daily egos, are not the kind of things that one day be treated like that in order to extract from the political conjuncture; to be very cautious, you need to be very calm. In this regard, we need to use a language that does not polarize the country further. With this language, the country's interests need to be brought forward. In a referendum, in a dominant election, how many votes do I get? When the panic strikes, you should know that the biggest mistake has been made. We must avoid them, my dear friends. What just happened? Where are you when the Dolmabahçe agreement is made? What do you say? More importantly, I'm asking the current Minister of Interior Efkan Ala, who attended that meeting, and it's my right to ask the current Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Mr Yalçin Akdoğan. Then I'm asking Mr. Mahir Ünal, the AKP Group Vice President, now Minister of Culture: What is the agreement of the President? When you shake hands here, are you sincere, after the President's wheel? Which one, which one? When the newspapers say "History," are you at that point when you see yourself in a sense of responsibility, or do you now have nothing to say after the President says these words? What do you think about that? Is he not telling the truth, or did you not do it right? Which is right and which is right? Efkan Ala, Yalçın Akdoğan, Mr. Mahir Ünal, were you right or was the President wrong? Go talk to them, go talk to them, this needs to be talked to, my dear friends, by sweeping it under the carpet. In such a two-way approach... the ruling party's approach to the country's most important issue, this is its approach to the most serious issues of the European Union, and then the opposition... Look, I've come out on this stand and I've told you all the wrong things, my dear friends. You can't run the country like this. We are sincerely ready to give you a hand, but you are not ready for it. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0073par0073	Thank you. The second and final word against the proposal belongs to Mersin MP Baki Simsek. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0074par0077	Mr. President, I stand before you to express the views of the National Movement Party on the AKP group proposal. I salute your high council. First of all, I ask God's mercy for the people who lost their lives in Nusaybin and in the church yesterday, and bow before our martyrs. Precious MPs, especially the Church, have been dropping bombs for months, and nearly 18 of our citizens have lost their lives, but after every bomb that was thrown into the Church, we hear from televisions: "The Turkish artillery has responded, the Turkish artillery has fired as much as this. The state of the Republic of Turkey, unfortunately, is unable to take the necessary measures at its borders, and is unable to take the necessary position in the area where it should be. In Syria, Turkish artillery should not only respond to those who have accounts on Turkey beyond the border; it must take the necessary stance of terrorist supporters on all platforms, on terrorist supporters, on all platforms; otherwise... Syria now lives as much as the population of the church population, but now, our own citizens living in the kilis have begun to leave the Church. Mersin has taken 300,000 migrations so far, 300,000 Syrians live. There was a new wave of migration after the events of 100,000, east and southeast; Sur, Nusaybin, Silopi were evacuated, and many of the people who were here settled in Mersin. Mersin, as unemployment has already been one of the most difficult cities in the economy; there is more than 20 per cent unemployment, but unfortunately he faces new migration waves. Turkey must take the necessary measures. Both businessmen who help terrorism, particularly Kandil, should be investigated, financial resources investigated, and necessary measures must be taken against terrorist supporters countries; otherwise, while a group of people lie and wake up with a dream of a new constitution, the martyrs will continue to arrive in Turkey. History repeats itself. At the time when the Ottoman State was the capital of Bursa, he built a philanthropist fountain from Burma, and wrote on the fountain: "It is lawful to every servant, it is forbidden to the Muslim." Of course, gossip begins at Bursa, they go to trial, they complain to the woman: Is that all right? How can a well-being fountain be lawful to every servant in a town that is 99 percent Muslim, and forbidden to a Muslim? She's getting a statement from her own person. The subject says, "Sir, I will only tell the padishah, and I will not tell anyone else." The incident is being carried out, and the king calls him to his presence. Padishaha, sir, I'm willing to accept your punishment. However, I have three demands from you, and I ask you to fulfill them. The Padishah says, "On the day when the church is open, you will detain the pastor of the church during the service, and you will keep it in prison for a week," he says. The Padişah is doing what this man says, taking the pastor of the church into custody. Within a week, all foreign men stand up, news from the foreign states: our priest is good, our priest does not make mistakes. Why don't you release our priest? A week later, Zat says to the padishaha, sir, his time is up, release him. They're leaving the synagogue and they're taking the rabbi into custody with the recipe again. Within a week, this time the Jews stand up, making all their attempts. Zat says: "Sir, his time is up, release this one." Later, he says his third and final request: "Take a well-liked, well-liked, well-known imam of the Holy Mosque into custody during the Hutbah on Friday." They're taking the imam of the Great Mosque into custody during the war on Friday. A week goes by, no breath, no one objects. They also appoint the most ignorant imam in the mosque. The citizens are talking in the mosque: "Ya, what the king had already done is that the king threw it in prison." Later, he says, "Sir, I wrote to this fountain for him every servant is lawful and forbidden to Muslims. The Turkish world and the Islamic world unfortunately can't defend its rights and its law today." And because he can't defend it, someone's still fighting to rule us. In the final part of my speech, I'd like to talk to you about the problems of my constituency, Mersin. Unfortunately, from February to February, the Persian watermelon comes to Mersin, an agricultural town. Thousands of tons of Iranian watermelons are coming in, and the Çukurova farmer, who is going to make three or five cents on the road season, is a victim. Watermelon prices, zucchini prices, pepper prices have gone down. Exports are already troubled, Turkey is now unable to sell goods to any of its neighbours, but unfortunately our Ministry of Agriculture has not imposed any restrictions on this issue, so there are still a lot of watermelons coming from abroad to Turkey, an agricultural country, and other products are coming, and Çukurova farmers are being victimised. Again, the State Waterworks, which is my constituency, has made a hasty decision to nationalize the Cottonland Project, and has been nationalized for many land channels. Here, our farmers have already lost their crops because of publicization. However, they can't afford these publicization costs, and there are serious casualties. Again, there are serious problems with nationalisation on the road to Tarsus-Camlia and Silifke-Mut. Turkey is experiencing the driest years of the world in the last hundred years. Our DSI General Directorate and regional directorates must take immediate measures. The measures must be taken now, especially in Çukurova, an agricultural area, to avoid shortages of summer irrigation. In this regard, we expect the necessary support from our Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Environment and Forestry. As for the support projects given to our farmers, our people in the countryside, who work in small farmers and livestock, must be supported, and their victims must be eliminated. Unfortunately, the support projects are always available to big companies, conglomerates and rich families of the region. Our people in the countryside can't benefit from it, they don't even have enough money to draw these projects. I expect our government to provide the necessary support on this matter. As the National Movement Party, which the AKP has brought in, which concerns the working order of parliament, we support the Parliament's 24 hours in the interest of this country, if necessary, but we are also opposed to this order of work brought directly to parliament without discussion in the commissions, without discussion of the bag. Otherwise, for the sake of the country, if it were a 24-hour study, I'd say the National Movement Party would be working for the good of this nation with 40 MPs. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0075par0088	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0076par0091	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0075par0092	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0076par0093	We have a roll call, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0075par0094	There aren't 20 people in attendance alone.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0076par0095	Yes, sir, it's in the back.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0077par0096	One count, sir, until you count...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0075par0097	Standing...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0077par0098	You're not welcome, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit03spe0075par0099	I'm counting. Mr. Gök, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Özgil, Mr. Topal, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Cleanel, Mr. Göker, Mr. Bakır, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Akadun. There's been a call before the vote. Now, first, I'm going to do the roll call, and I'm going to give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit04spe0075par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the Justice and Development Party group's proposal, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Thus, according to the decision made, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. In the first place, we will begin talks with Dair Legislature and the Foreign Commission Report, where we are in line with the Charter for the Protection of Custody, Law, Knowledge, Tenfiz and Co-operation. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 280 rows. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the first word on the entire bill belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Osman Baydemir (a member of parliament). Here you go, Mr. Baydemir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit04spe0078par0024	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. I made a promise on behalf of my group about the bill. First of all, my group and the party I belong to are a political party that supports Turkey's integration into the European Union from the first day to the present day and desires it to be quick to live. Mr. President, today, as a matter of essence, and as part of the bill that we've discussed, we're both discussing Turkey's integration into the European Union, but at the same time, the adaptation of the acquish, and, along with the adoption of child rights by legislation, by law. Mr. President, while discussing such an important subject, such an important issue, I present it to the discretion of the President, who is now running the House, of how much he talks about child rights, and therefore how much internally sensitive they are about the future of this country. I hope, and I hope, that a warning will come on this occasion. Mr. President, first of all, there is a need for an adaptation of legislation. Of course, there's an urgent need to work on the completion of homework, but it's not all about law enforcement. The internalization of the law that is to come out is the obligation to believe in it, and more importantly, that the legislation and the legislation, the application and the acquis, the application and the basic values that make the European Union the European Union co-motive. Unfortunately, once again, I would like to say that once again, friends can see in shopping, friends can see in the market; I would like to pretend that they are doing it; I would like to say that the policy of finding is continuing, as it were, as it were, not only intrinsization, but also in violation of the law and behavior. In this context, Turkey is one of nearly a limited number of countries in Europe, where all forms of violence are observed intensively in all areas of life. In fact, it is the most intense country in the history of child rights attacks. Of course, it is the most difficult to compensate for the forms of violence and violence, and it is impossible, especially in an atmosphere where the right to live is violated, to enter other rights areas and to defend other rights areas with one dimension. The United Nations Organization, which is also a member of Turkey, adopted the Children's Rights Declaration of the United Nations in 1959, in an effort to have awareness that children have different physical, physiological behavior and psychological properties than adults, that they are constantly growing and developing, and that the protection of children in this sense is a form of social behavior. Almost thirty years after the adoption of this declaration, the Children's Rights contract was drafted, and this was signed in the General Assembly, so to speak. So far, it's almost the only contract in all international contracts that has found the most supporters, accepted by 193 countries, and still holds first place. This contract was signed by Turkey in 1990, and some reservations were issued in 1995. These reservations, first of all, were pushed out of responsibility by the main spirit of the contract, which is the non-discrimination clause, the higher benefit of the child, the third article, the 6th article, the right to life and development, the 12th clause, as a matter of essence, when the principal spirit of the contract abstained from the main perspective. We all know that as we begin a topic in everyday life and in political life, and in bilateral conversations, I agree with that, but, but... if you say so, that's all the issues that you've agreed to, all the things that you've supported. And with that dignity, if we want to talk about a government policy that fits the spirit of this contract, if we want to talk about practice, action, first of all, these reservations need to be removed without strings attached. Predicts on the future of children, the present of children, and, of course, the future of society must be eliminated first. Likewise, when we look at the agreements and protocols the European Union and the Council of Europe have drawn up on children, we need to eliminate similar reservations, similar conditions. Perhaps, until now, there is only one thing that we can record as a satisfactory development in legislature, which is that the Turkish Penal Code and the Turkish Law of Child Protection have come out of 5395. But once again, it's not enough that the law has come out, it's just that it needs to be found to be internalized and to be carried out by the enforcer in terms of the acquisitor perspective. So what happens when laws, regulations, international contracts say that? And while the Minister is here, I'd like to say that by turning this into an opportunity. From January 1st to December 31st, 2015, the Human Rights Association's action report, the observation report, states that we are witnessing the rights violations of children in dozens of areas, which are directly infringements in the hands of state or state officials, but at the same time, due to failure to meet the requirements of their state-based responsibility or to implement adequate prevention mechanisms. When we look at the category of right of life violations, 733 children died in 2015; when we look at the violation of their right of life in an armed conflict environment, 73 children lost their lives; when we look at the right to life violations of refugees, asylum seekers, 152 children lost their lives. The number of children who died in business accidents is 14. Again, the number of children who lost their lives within the school is 5, the number of children who died in the accident of school services is 13. Two of the children who were under direct control, control, and security of the state in prisons have lost their lives. Again, there are 112 children who have died from drowning in sea, lakes, and so on. The number of child injuries during the year is 1,946. Again, 78 children were injured as a result of excessive violence as a result of social intervention. In the same way, 1,869 children were poisoned in environments in public environments -- where the government is guaranteed again -- with poison or external effects. Again -- by the number of complaints, by the number of complaints -- 479 children have been taken into custody. 92 children have been arrested for political, political reasons. Again, in the educational environments under the supervision and supervision of the Ministry of National Education, 872 children have been investigated, almost sealed. When we looked at a painting like this, in a real atmosphere like this, I brought such a law to the Assembly General Assembly; I voted it in the Assembly General Assembly, and I got it approved. So I've fulfilled my homework on Turkey's integration into the European Union. If you say so, you can't fool anyone, I'm sorry, you can't convince anyone. One of the reasons why parliament is working so hard on international contracts today is the fulfillment of 72 homework on visa exemptions. Once again, the way all of these homework are being done, even with the schematics, is in conflict with the basic values that make the European Union the European Union. First of all, the legislature itself is a control mechanism, a consultation mechanism, and a common denominator. Even the law itself, for example, is not a mechanism based on consultation. I know, I do, I do, no one knows better than I do. The majority of power comes to this board, and in this board is approved and passed by this perspective. I'm very clear about this situation -- it's not a participatory democracy -- it's an attempt to hold down the House at all times, and we're all together today to understand the concrete products of this initiative, so to speak -- the concrete products of this initiative, so to speak. So what needs to be done is to turn Parliament into a control mechanism that makes the European Union a fundamental value. It is to implement a consultation mechanism from the commission to the General Assembly, and by this consultation, to enforce legal legislation. It's not enough that legal legislation comes out, it's about training and enhancing appliances with this perspective. So how close are we to this? During the curfews alone, 102 children were killed directly by the violence of the state, the violence you call "legal bullet" in your name, the violence you call "legal violence" in Cizrede, the silicone, and the other settlements. It's not enough, it's not enough. All these children lost their homes, lost their shelters. It's not enough, all of his peers, the millions of children, grew up with a massive trauma, witnessed a massive trauma. See, we're supposed to be building futures for those kids. When those kids grow up, when they're old enough to take a stick in their hands, they'll be able to account for their trauma in their own way, one way or another, to this community. For this reason, there is only one way to protect the child's rights, and that is to be able to give and offer to today's children, all of today's people, a non-violent social and political basis. That's exactly what Parliament should do. We have no doubt that, even for ourselves, that when we look at the event here -- the mother, the father -- almost every surrogate is a mother or father, there is nothing more valuable than our child. There's nothing more valuable in a mother's life than a father's child. Here, for the sake of ruling alone and for the purpose of using the EU acquish as an internal political tool for EU talks, the facts are distorted and reversed for visa exemption. By God, you can't fool the European Union. If we believe that we can fool the European Union by the way you are now known as the Kayseri negotiation, we are mistaken. Besides, this agreement or this negotiation itself, its spirit, its content, is an unethical process. The European Union's approach, like the government, is unethical, as is the government. Because there's a process of giving fictional homework on the refugee problem. The European Union knows very well that all 72 criteria will not be alive, and the European Union knows very well that there is a rift between practice and legislation. Here, therefore, come, let us not close our eyes to this reality. Let's go back to the basics once again and once again return the people of this country, of this community, to the ground of non-combatability. Let us, once again, be involved in the integration and intervention of the process -- based on Parliament's will, in the form of Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliament, in a constitution that can respond to the needs of all the dynamics of society through its constituent perspective. There are some very important things to be done with that dignity. One of them should be brought to justice by active investigations into every case that has been violated, especially regarding children who have lost their lives in conflict zones. On the contrary, Parliament must demonstrate will that every single one of these crimes will not go unpunished because of the war crimes committed by public officials in the conflict zones. If he can do it, if he can do it, then we have partially fulfilled our responsibility for our children and our children's future. Again, regardless of the crime committed against children and whoever the perpetrator is, let's eliminate all legal legislation that he can take advantage of the discount, change all legal legislation in that sense. Let us again enter into a legal study on the removal of punishment in the public sector, especially in public institutions or in public personnel, in terms of life rights, in terms of all violations. Let's make a budget that can be used for children, special to children, mandatory in accordance with legal legislation, with the amount spent on children from the budgets of general and local governments. Again, with national and international legislation, including all rights for children... which should be a fundamental law, a fundamental law, so that we can avoid disorganisation. Again, I urge you to take part in a protected, protected process that is monitored by the legal practices, the processes of children, by the establishment of a special children's rights fellowship within the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The independent children's rights monitoring board, which includes human rights organisations, NGOs and trade organisations, is an important need to be met immediately. Again, it is urgent that children's education, health care, poverty, labor, neglect and abuse be created by the children's rights database, which will be kept in detention, prison and all sorts of other data. Once again, let's conduct a hand-to-hand study as parliament, as groups of children's children's rights organizations and alternative improvements in co-operation with NGO and vocational rooms regarding the law, the conflicting issues, as well as the development of parliament. And there is no doubt a need for a legal arrangement where citizens and children with different languages, culture and faith can teach and learn their own language, culture and faith. So, from all of this, once again, we repeat our call as a group. The country we live in today -- I'm very clear and clear -- is a trust, a trust of responsibility to our children. If we want to entrust this trust to future children, future generations, first of all, we have to approach it with honesty and honesty. Pretending to do it, not pretending to do it, to violate freedoms, to ignore rights, not just to our present, but to the future, to future generations, it's a very, very great sin. Today, in this Parliament, from the beginning to this day, I would like to say once again that those who oppose war, violence, war and violence will be less than those who oppose it. I mean, there's no doubt that the plague of power, yours, is far greater than ours. In that sense, God be with you and your help. I think it's going to be difficult for you in this world as much as it is for you, Mr. Deputy President of the Group. My deepest regards to everyone with the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit04spe0079par0049	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. Now, I would like to submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. It's about custody and the protection of the children, and it's about the protection of the children, and it's about authority, the law, the law, the law, the law, the administration, the administration, the economy and the employment of the children that we've agreed to. It was appropriate for us to participate in the Law, Knowledge, Tenfiz and Co-operation under the obligation and declarations of custody responsibility (1) and the Protection of the Children. The first word for groups on Article 1 belongs to Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Demirel, please. [[Applause from HDP rows]] You have ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit04spe0080par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers; yes, when we express our talks about Bill 280, of course this is a process that we consider as part of the EU contract, in particular as a legal arrangement for the requirements of the European Union's Visa Freedom Treaty, but in this case -- as we discuss this bill in the General Assembly today -- in fact, with this bill, we would like to use it only to show or to enter into the EU integration law. However, after we've passed this law, how much we're going to fulfill it, or how much we're doing right now, we're going to have to look at it a little bit. The goal of this law is to protect children. However, we are well aware of the condition of the children in Turkey right now. We also expressed the children's situation on April 23rd, but if we express it today, we can clearly say in Turkey that children have no right to property, not even to live. Again, it is also possible for Turkey, especially between 2015 and 2016, to say that there were times when too many deaths occurred, the child was ignored, and the children were left behind in terms of human rights violations. We're experiencing more suffering and loss of life than ever before. If we talk about international contracts on children here, I think we should first address the United Nations Children's Rights by the Convention. Although the agreement is expressed as the fulfillment of obligations which must be observed seriously with the Republic of Turkey, the agreement states are once again obliged to take every possible precaution in order to ensure that international law is obeyed and obeyed in the event of armed conflict, protect and care for children affected by armed conflicts. Unfortunately, today, Turkey's report, published by the Agenda Children's Association, states: In Turkey, we see that the child's right of life, according to 2015 data, is a year in Turkey, especially when children's war policies directly affect their lives, and in 2015, at least 873 children have lost their lives for preventable reasons. Again, in 2016, the deaths of these children are as we know them. Of those who have lost their lives because of the blockades that have lasted for nine months, 102 are children. So in this nine-month period, we're going through a process in Şırnak, Cizre, Leipzig, Sur, Idil. We're going through a period in which even 102 people of the children who lost their lives lost their lives in Nusaybin have been stripped of their right to live. Children have lived in blockades, violated their rights, lost their lives, and have also caused many children to be injured there. Again, children who are forced to work in prisons; again, children who are forced to lose their lives because children who can't feed; again, children who have to spend their lives in prison because they can't use their freedom of expression; again, children who have lost their lives on the beaches when they want to cross the border; again, children who are shot and unable to cross the border; unfortunately, we can increase them. 2015 will be recorded as the year in the last five years when child deaths will be the highest. In the process, I would like to mention a number of names from the list of children's massacres, including Ceylan Önkol, the Uður Kaymaz, again the Berkin Elvans, again the 2-year-old Esmeralda Shalk baby, who was killed by artillery shootings, and also the three-month-old Miray baby in Cizre, and the 10-year-old Cemile Araka, whose dead body was kept in the refrigerator. These are just a few. Again, we did not forget the 12 - year - old Helin Passed away with a police bullet on the way to buy bread in Tyre. Again, we have never forgotten the families whose funeral was still held in Tyre, Rozerin Çukur. Again, we haven't forgotten the hundreds of children we're going to name. I would like to mention a few more: Czech Barz, Beytullah Aydın, Baran Çağlı, Emin Yanash, Selman Agha, Elif Simsek, Tahsin Uray, Berat Beauty, Tevriz Dora, Bişeng Garan, Büşra, and Yusuf Akalin, and hundreds of children like them were killed and lost in this process. These were the children who lost their lives in the blockade area we were talking about. During the conflicting process, many rights, including protection, education, health care, and safe living have been violated. Children whose lives have been blockaded have witnessed great destruction. These children lost their parents and relatives, lost their parents in front of their own eyes, had to emigrate with their families, were injured, were taken into custody, were deprived of their right to education by shutting down schools in places of curfew. Again, access to health care has been blocked, and they have had to deal with the severe psychological, social, and economic effects of all of this. Children who have been exposed to war and violence or have witnessed violence have been left with signs of a future, preventing their personality from developing fully and in harmony. Children experience intense feelings of sadness, anxiety, despair, insecurity, and will face the traumas that they can experience in their future lives. Therefore, the state must first take democratic steps to stop armed conflicts and develop peaceful solutions to prevent children from being harmed in conflict processes before the international contracts mentioned. While we should be talking about these things today, unfortunately, we will be able to prevent them, but we will have fulfilled our responsibility within the European Union's compliance laws, but if we repeat them, if we fail to comply with the European Union contracts, unfortunately, there will be no point in the legalisation of these visas, these international contracts. Again, if we think that by covering up the Ensar Foundation, by putting it on one person, the punishment of that individual will prevent child abuse, we'll be wrong about that too. We don't have to deal with individuals/persons who exploit children, we just have to deal with an approach that will eliminate institutional and that mentality. As long as we don't do this, no matter how many laws we make, no matter how many laws we make, it's still just gonna be on paper. Again, in the same way, instead of defending the children's rights and laws, we're expressing how we can develop integration into the European Union, how we can make laws, schemes that will color their eyes in the process of the European Union. However, the only way to accomplish these things will be through practical practices, a complete solution to the problems we face. Let's make it very clear that there are only 2,373 children between the ages of 12 and 17 in prisons. How are we going to protect these children we locked up in prisons, how are we going to talk about freedom, how are we going to talk about peace, how are we going to talk about justice? So when we're dealing with these, we're going to look for ways to fix all the problems that children have gone through, and we're going to leave the child's right of life as a target. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit04spe0081par0072	The second word on behalf of the groups belongs to Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit04spe0082par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Nationalist Action Party Group to discuss the Compromise of Compromises on Custody Responsibility in 280 rows and the Protection of Children, Law, Knowledge, Tenfiz and Co-operation. I salute each and every one of you. Before I begin my speech, I ask for the mercy of God, his relatives, and the patience of the great Turkish nation who died today in Mardin. Again, I ask God's mercy to all our martyrs and to all our citizens who have lost their lives in the Church. Dear lawmakers, divorce is as difficult a process for children as it is for spouses. Now, the law we're talking about is a bill to protect the child's rights after this divorce, aimed at protecting the children's superior interests. Why does divorce wear children out? A child needs trust. This need for trust is important not only for physical needs, but also for the need for protection, but also because it is psychologically one of the most important needs of the child. The parents are the ones who keep the child safe and secure. If this family fails to be together, can't maintain its integrity, and spouses decide to divorce, then, of course, the relationship between husband and wife is over, but the role of parent continues. Unfortunately, in many divorces that we see in our country, we are witnessing processes between individuals that have failed to reach an agreement between spouses, and many of which have gone through conflicting divorces. There are many problems that affect this; there are child support issues, custody issues, and, worst of all, there are ways to satisfy the anger that your parents set up on each other over their children. We need to address all of these issues in the international contract, taking into consideration our own internal law. In the case of alimony, not only women, but men are also victims. Men who have been married for three days and then are sentenced to spend a lifetime of alimony are also involved. I would especially like to ask our Minister of Justice to work on the issue of custody, especially the problem of seeing children through execution. Children's sight through execution is a problem not only for parents, but also for children that have devastating effects. Our residents have many problems maintaining family unity abroad. For one thing, it's marriage without knowing each other. Especially for newly formed families, bringing in brides or grooms from Turkey has caused problems among married couples without knowing each other, and the pressure of families has made these problems even greater. In marriages with foreign nationals, we face different problems, which, as you can appreciate, have increased marriages not only abroad but also abroad. After the first and second generation, we can call it the second and third generation -- the country they live in is more adaptive, but they have better education, but they are deprived of the process of helping with divorce. They may seem more courageous about the divorce here, but again, the disputes between the parents of the divorce, even during the engagement period, the problems they had when they left, continue there as well as in our country. Divorce is sometimes necessary. There are marriages that can sometimes be good for the fence, not for the continuation of marriage. Even if our Turkish citizens are divorced in the countries in which they live, they say that the legal process is not accepted in Turkey, that they have to get a lawyer and sue again in Turkey, which is why they are victims. They are still waiting for this problem to be resolved. Other than that, we're signing an international agreement for our citizens living abroad, and we need to address international problems -- and we need to pay some attention to their problems, especially family integrity. Unfortunately, our families who live abroad have no time left for each other, as all must work in the busy work of life, young, old, male and female. While families wanted their children to have the values that they were away from because of the pace of their own work, this time they were burdened with different kinds of burdens. They also have to be trained on the weekend to learn their culture, their religion, their language while studying the education standards of the country they are in during the week. In the first families to come to their home country, parents did not care enough for their children because they were working, and unfortunately, these children's idleness, their wrong habits, have led to different problems. The first generation to leave is also having problems dealing with their grandchildren, who have studied in foreign countries and who think in different languages other than Turkish. You know, in our culture, grandfather-grandchildren, grandparents-grandchildren' relationships are very important, and it allows culture to be passed down from generation to generation, but our third generation children, the children of Turkish citizens, have become increasingly conflicted and unable to understand each other because of the language difference and the habit of thinking in a foreign language. The family relationship structure that exists in their foreign society also reflects negatively on families, sometimes Turkish families find them more free and feel pressured. Again, it is seen here that parents live separately, divorced, parents abuse each other, their children. Prejudicial approaches to foreigners lead to a lack of self - confidence in young people and a lack of that is passive in society. As a result, they find it difficult to stay between the clamps of two cultures and to integrate with society as a result of their being in a different society, language, religion, culture, tradition. It makes our children, our young ones, more difficult when young people develop some bad habits starting out of school during puberty, including problems related to alcohol, drugs, adolescents, harmonies with physical, spiritual change. Again, we were recently with our Turkish immigrants in Denmark and Sweden as the Commission for the Protection of Family Integration. There's information from there, they said themselves: 36 percent of girls go to college, 10 to 12 percent of boys go to college. In this case, the girls complete their education, but since the boys are in early business, the girls are having trouble finding a mate this time. This makes our Turkish citizens feel a little anxious to marry foreign nationals. Again, during our talks, Turkish citizens complained about Turkish television channels and especially wedding programmes. So these marriage programs are not only in our country's borders, but they have a negative effect on all our citizens who live abroad, and they're complaining about it themselves. Some countries have strict immigration laws. This makes our citizens difficult, and our citizens' laws increase their distress due to their lack of knowledge of the law. And I especially want to say, unfortunately, there's a foster home problem. We met with the Ozturk family in Denmark. I'd like to give you some information on that. The Ozturk family is a newly married couple. After marriage, his wife gets pregnant, and the day the baby is born, the parents take it away from her. We have a very serious problem here. A midwife here complains that she can't make eye contact, and the mother gets an intelligence test. The intelligence test wasn't translated into Turkish, it wasn't Turkish, it wasn't Turkish culture, it wasn't Turkish culture. The mother was interrupted, but the child was taken, given to another foster home. According to their laws, the protected child should first be given to family relatives, then to family in the same ethnic group, then to another ethnic group, but unfortunately these laws are ignored, and the child taken from the Turkish family can be handed directly to a Danish, Swedish, Norwegian family, different culture. Another problem we face here is that Turkish families are afraid of becoming foster parents. Let me put it this way. The custody issue is very important. It's also very important that our children be given to foster homes, but the families there are in desperate need of help. In the process of divorce, in the process of maintaining family unity, they need serious help to learn about parental education and all kinds of rights and laws so that they can learn their rights, they need our support. I remind you that necessary measures must be taken, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit04spe0083par0095	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. Now, on behalf of the groups, the final word on Article 1 belongs to İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I would like to call Mr. Tanal to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit04spe0084par0100	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute and salute you all. I have made a pledge on the Law bill of the 280th Order of Custody and the Protection of the Children, the Law, the Law to Apply, the Knowledge, the Tenfiz and the Co-operation Act, that it is proper for us to enter into the Convention. Of course, when we looked at the contract, if only the minister had been here, we might have been able to talk more clearly about some of the legal literature -- in principle. Because, here, the 2nd article of the contract is applied to children from the moment they were born to the age of 18. So, according to international contracts, anyone who is up to 18 is a child. Now, the fifth joke of the 90th article of our Constitution states that the international contract with internal law is the law that will be enforced if it comes into conflict. We support and approve this contract by moving from here. However, under our civil law, Mr. Secretary, the 16-year-old can marry the mother and father's guardian. And if the children who are 16 are married to their parents' guardians, won't there be a problem under this contract that we'll sign, which will go into effect? There'll be trouble. Wouldn't it be better if, in parallel with this, you had organized the provisions in the Civil Law? Sure. That's it? In the same way, we have provisions in the civil law, which we call "legal youth," which are not 18 years old. Likewise, when we implement those provisions, won't the international conflict with these contracts again? It's gonna conflict. A moment ago, the speaker of the National Movement Party, the speaker, said as he spoke here: "We were out of the country. " In Denmark, Sweden, the 18-year-old child can't get married, even if the parents agree. The main thing is that the child will be 18 years old and grow up naturally, both for the development of the child and for the family institution and for the community. He says it is necessary. He says that such marriages under the age of 18 and does not agree to be this kind of adult. Well, when it doesn't happen, sir, we'll get the visa, we'll get these 72 homework assignments. They're very comfortable, they know very well that the countries of the European Union don't come to this deception, they don't come to this wandering. As the main opposition party -- a few moments ago, our member of the group, our vice president -- our warnings in the past come out two years later, three years later, one by one. Likewise, these warnings that we do and continue to do will really come to you. Now, it's called goodbye. Well, friends, our citizens who have been divorced abroad are having a lot of trouble protecting their children. What is it? Unable to make notifications on recognition and tenphysis. Well, isn't there a solution to the notification, Mr. Secretary? There is a solution to the notification: Say: "Do not divorce couples other than your homes, if their term has expired -- that is, our current period of term in the Civil Law has been three hundred days -- without notice, by court order, and by definition, fulfil the nurturing. Why? Now, in divorce decisions, recognition is not met, tenphysis is not fulfilled, precious friends or late completion. Now, one of them is getting married abroad; after marriage, the child is born. Who is the father of this child? The state there says that the father of this child, according to my decree, is the last man to marry. According to Turkish law, sir, this decision is still not known to me, so the father of this child is the first husband. Parliament, which is the political institution, will fix this. Our citizens here are victims of this. It's a real pain in the ass, in the recognition of children. We're on our way to alimony. And the alimony part, friends, states abroad, and one of the requirements of this contract -- the social state, if the child's alimony is appreciated by the court's decision, if he can't pay it, again, the education life, social, cultural life, from kindergarten, from sports schools, from summer vacations, from foreign language education, and from native language education -- is a very comfortable state for the development of the child's needs. We have to do our own homework first, dear friends, in our own civil law. To do this without doing your homework... yes, we will, but it would be helpful to remind you of that. Of course, when you say children's rights, dear friends, there are two children in every bed at the children's hospital in Şanlıurfa. First, we need to fix these children's hospitals in Şanliurfa, and really, two children's beds in each bed. We call it child's rights. And here, in Şanliurfa, there is the same situation at the maternity hospital. Dear friends, I left Şanlıurfa, after I won law school in 1982. The obstetrics hospital at the time is the same maternity hospital. The year is 1982, the year is 2016. If you call it a children's hospital, it's the same thing. Look, dear friends, Şanliurfa is the site of the first settlement of agriculture in the 8,000 B.C.E. At Şanlıurfa, the power is now out from eight hours to twelve hours a day. Between eight and twelve hours a day in Şanlıurfa, and not only Şanlıurfa, but also Mardin, Diyarbakır. It's an industrial hazard, and our agricultural citizen is losing it. Now, our citizens in the southeast say, "Ya, my friend, if only we were Syrians, we should have come from Syria." Because there's no tax plate when the Syrians open a shop, no insurance when they work, no control. It breeds unfair competition, and that's where the migration begins, dear friends. On the one hand, you're saying, "Sir, we're fighting terrorism." Friends, you're forcing these people into another migration with the power cut from eight to twelve hours a day. What we can do here is... the citizen says there's a DEAC in Syria, there's a DEDA in Urbana. Is that possible? Now, why was electricity privatized in Urbana, and why? One of the reasons for privatisation of electricity... Although our Deputy Speaker, he's also Adıyaman, where the power is cut, Mr. President. I mean, I don't know what your situation is; nobody's talking about your situation, so let me just say that. 1) The quality electricity needed to be given. 2) We needed efficient electricity. 3) Infrastructure facilities needed to be built, and they needed to be strengthened and renovated. 4) The citizens needed cheap and quality electricity. It was privatized for these reasons. Well, if the irrigation troops have any debts... friends, you're not impounding the irrigation unit, you're shutting down the entire citizen's power. I thought you said there was a rule of law in crime and punishment, that everyone was responsible for their own actions. If three people in a village didn't pay their electric debt or 10 people didn't pay them, and five people did, what law does it fit in, what justice does it fit in, what order does it fit in? Now, the most truly voted political party in Şanlıurfa is the Justice and Development Party, but the least the service goes to is Şanlıurfa's dear friends. I mean, isn't it a pity it's not a sin for the Urbans? That's how much they vote for you, how much they support you. Eight hours and 12 hours without electricity in this summer's heat is not even done in a war environment, my friends. Therefore, I invite all of you from here to be truly fair in the face of this attitude and attitude that you take against the political authority of the Glorious. On April 11th, you convened the Council of Ministers in Urbana, you promised electricity, it won't be cut. You said it won't be cut, but the power's still out. I thank you again, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit04spe0085par0123	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Only Adıyaman is not interrupted except by technical failure, Mr. Tanal. We wish and hope that, of course, in all our cities, it will continue with the same sensitivity, and it will continue to serve all our cities as well as all our cities.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit04spe0086par0126	Mr. President, you teased me. The dirty sewer waters of Adıyaman are still flowing to Fırat. I mean, the city still hasn't finished that sewer. I mean, which one should I talk about?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit04spe0085par0127	No, no, the decontamination is over, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit04spe0086par0128	The power's out. I've received news from the Huni village of Kahta. It's quite comfortable, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit04spe0085par0129	Thank you. Thus, negotiations on Article 1 have been completed. I submit item 1 to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit04spe0087par0132	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit04spe0085par0133	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0085par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The number of decisions was not found during the vote of Article 1 of Law Bill 280. Now, I'm going to put the item back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor of Article 1... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted, there's enough to decide. We now resume negotiations with Bill 280, where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. The People's Democratic Party Group, MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman, who wants to speak on the 2nd article. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0088par0012	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group regarding the Compromised Law Bill, where we are eligible to enter into the Convention on Custody Responsibility in 280 rows and Protection of the Children, Law, Knowledge, Tenfiz and Co-operation. Dear lawmakers, of course, the adoption of these international contracts, the adoption of them, in the framework of the European Union integration laws and the signing or accepting of this contract, which is in line with the European curriculum, is an important development in the rights of children, but, of course, not only is it enough to be part of this contract or to be part of it because, first of all, beyond this international contract, the situation in which our country is in terms of our country's conditions and our country's legislation, the situation is actually pathetic. Look, like this, Turkey signed the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, but when signing this contract -- just like in international contracts -- they always sign these contracts on basic human rights or political rights. The bottom line of the reservations is that in Turkey, unfortunately, the Kurdish problem hasn't been solved yet. Because every contract that is signed has problems with Kurds or with Kurdish fundamental rights, and all the articles that are intended for it are withdrawn. Although there are many reservations in the Convention on Child Rights, it appears to have been placed especially when you abstained from the 17, 29 and 30th articles concerning freedom of expression, promoting your own culture, and the rights to education in your native language. Of course, in addition, children's rights to live, children's rights, education, health rights, are seriously victimized in Turkey today's implementation. For example, since curfews began, the number of children who have been massacred in the provinces and districts under the blockade is around 103.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0089par0016	They're terrorists.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0088par0017	In addition to life violations of the state's basic obligation, many children are arrested on serious charges in social events, exposed to violence by law enforcement forces in police stations, streets, prisons. Children's lives, housing, health care and education have failed to fulfill their duty to the state, and the children have been forgotten. This shows that to side with international contracts, to give children rights is only on paper. Children's problems have been raised with each new legal arrangement, while some proposals for solutions are being presented, but the problems of children are increasing day by day instead of reducing problems. Many children's deaths, which are the perpetrators of public officials, remain unpunished, and the perpetrators are systematically rewarded and released. The most painful example of this has been seen in the past in the case of Uður Kaymaz, Medeni Yıldırım, and 17 children who were murdered in Roboski. If a public official is a criminal officer, there is no punishment or punishment for the crimes committed by public officials against children. Now, dear friends, there's a lot of data on all of this. For example, in a recent report by the Agenda Children's Association, there are statistics in Turkey for children, mainly because the state failed to perform its negative tasks due to negative responsibility. For example, according to this report, the number of unsolved executions in 2005 was 61, the number of children killed in gunfighting 1, the number of children killed in conflict wastes, military ammunition and mines. Again, there are rights violations of life due to the negligence of public officials. For example, there are 15 children who receive health care, 11 children who receive housing services, 8 children, one child on the street, one child on the street; 103 children in total; and children who are caused by the state's failure to perform negative tasks in 2015. There is also information in the report from the government's failure to carry out its positive duties, for example, six missing from suicides and bombings, one missing from the hate killings. Again, 18 child casualties in domestic violence, 8 children in peer violence, 16 children in child murder, 4 children from child marriage, 4 children from drug use, 35 children from suicide, 30 from individual weapons. Again, violations of rights as a result of negligence. For example, there were 186 children in traffic accidents, 17 children in bicycle accidents, 62 children from domestic physical security and home accidents -- 24 children, 24 children from fires, 20 from poisonings, seven children from electrical and high tensions, 142 from incidents in urban and rural open spaces, 55 children from workplace deaths, 10 children from workplace accidents, 4 children from refugee children from disaster, and 875 children from Syria -- including 59 children, refugee children who died in 11 children, 26 from refugee children in children's shelters, and 26 from other causes -- and 6 children who died in Turkey. The data we're describing in these statistics are separate from the deaths of children due to the failure of the state to carry out the negative or positive responsibility. So, dear friends, only because of the ratification of laws in Parliament or the concern of visa liberalisation, for example, this contract, signed in 1995, is not being brought to this Parliament by the AKP government, which is in power from 2002 to this side. He's been in power for 14 years. For 14 years, this law has actually been signed, implemented by international states, but has not been brought before the House for more than 20 years, but in the last job, with two months before June, with the immediate concern of visa liberalisation, let's raise it, without worrying about it, without being brought into it -- with need of sincerity and faith -- with the concern of getting a diplomatic advantage over the European Union, let's hope that the laws that exist in practice, in practice, and in our proper business legislation -- have been carried out, and that children have been protected internationally, too. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0090par0028	Talks on matter are complete.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0091par0029	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0090par0030	Before voting, there is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. Those who don't agree to Article 2... the decision is sufficient, the matter is accepted. MADDE 3. - (1) The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of groups on the matter, Adıyaman MP Behcet Yıldırım will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0092par0037	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I have made a pledge to express our views on the 3rd article of the Law Bill 280 rows on behalf of my party and group. Before I begin my speech, I would like to point out that I strongly condemn the racist and fascist attack on Ankaragü-Amedspor yesterday. I strongly condemn those who created this climate of violence. This bill on custody responsibility and the protection of children is particularly relevant to child rights. Before the contract clause, when it comes to children, we need to assess our country's report card. I'd like to begin with the statement of Yasar Kemal. A great lie that time is the cure for all wounds. Time cannot heal the wounds of a murdered child. The United Nations Convention on Children's Rights is an integral and undisputable part of internal law and has the upper hand in civil law when it comes to fundamental rights and freedoms. The Convention on Children's Rights of the United Nations has imposed on governments the obligation to protect children from all harm and to secure their rights in armed conflict environments. Governments are obliged to protect civilians and especially children in gunfighting environments and to give priority to the child's benefit in any procedure. Not only in wars, but in all forms of armed conflict, the United Nations has been suspended, including Article 38 of the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights. We're just a country that signs international contracts. It's not a priority to protect the citizens and children of your own country. We've become such that without the pressure of the European Union and the international community, we won't have a single law that adopts democratic values. We organise all of our liberal laws to comply with the European Union's legislation and to meet the reviews mentioned in the reports on paper, and any international document that we sign on the rights and freedoms that will be the common value of humanity remains on paper, and unfortunately, it does not reflect. The main reason is that there is no political will to internalise rights and freedoms, to defend democratic values. There are no rights that can be enforced. However, it takes a separate empathy, a separate tolerance, a separate maturity, so that it can be embedded in heads, spirits. Look, we're making arrangements to protect children during a political will that internalizes democratic values, and if we had protected the children, in 2013, the 15-year-old Berkin Elvan, who was violated by police by a gas flare, would not have died. In order to reach Europe, 30 percent of those who died in the accidents in the Mediterranean are refugees, and we are a country seeking money from Europe to prevent the death of these children. It is not the body of Aylan Kurdi, but the conscience of the government that struck the land in the Aegean. Had it been wanted, such children would not have died on the shores of the Aegean, and would not have drowned in the sea. Again, children are the greatest victims of war. The most basic right to life and health of about 500,000 children is reported to have been violated following curfew practices. Hundreds of children are reported to have died. Children were killed in her mother's lap, and children had to watch her mother's funeral in the middle of the street for days. Children's funerals were kept in deep freezes. In the blockade in Cizre, the people asked us to bring water and food for our children. I told security that I took over as a deputy. I had food and water with me, and they said, "No, you can't." Doctor, I said I'll take the ambulance. Unfortunately, I couldn't even get water and food to the children under the blockade. Children who survived death and injuries, their homes, streets, schools, safety sites, mortars, missiles, bullets, and bombs. Some of the children are trying to live in poverty and poverty, leaving this destruction behind. The quickest way to protect children is to maintain a peaceful environment. For children, our obligation requires that weapons be silenced. We're protecting the kids, so let me remind you of two things that are more painful than a sample. What about all the charges of solicitation and rape? In the case of rape, for example, the defendants were acquitted, and the public officials are often punished for such crimes. In these cases, government institutions, educational institutions, sometimes tend to close the case and ignore it. As it is known, Minister of Family and Social Policy Sema Ramazanoglu has no reason to defame an institution that has come forward with its services. We know the Ensar Foundation, and we appreciate its services. Also, I'd like to tell the Minister that this has not happened once, that during this period of power, there have been dozens of child abuses. Don't you remember Potty Prison? Do you know what the outcome of today's behavior was? In 2012, the case against suspects found to have been molested and raped by children who were placed in Posanti Prison resulted in a lack of surveillance. We have rejected the power's vote as to family and Social Policy Minister Sema Ramazanoglu, who has caused serious concern and mistrust in the public that the foundations, which have been neglected at the point of preventing child abuse and are responsible for statements about the foundations referred to as child abuse, will remain unrequited. Instead of resigning in democratic countries, these practices have become able to defend and protect those who are negligent in crime. It is the number one government and government responsible for crimes committed against children for their children's poverty and deprivation. The government has an obligation to protect the welfare of children. There are some very serious allegations, and the children have claims that they've been abused, raped, and the Minister's priority should not be to make statements to exonerate the Ensar Foundation. Here's a picture of the importance you've given the children, your attitude towards Posanti Prison and Ensar Foundation claims has surfaced. Therefore, unfortunately, we are not a country protecting our children, looking after the benefits of our children; we are a country that is watching children's deaths, child molestation, and eating up children's deaths, aware of child abuses, or not. The number one person responsible for all these degrading practices is the government in charge of the executive office. For myself, as a member of this House, I apologize to all our children for not being able to protect our children from death and abuse. I hope that the government will be aware of its own responsibility to apologize for the deaths and abuses of this child and remember the responsibility and answer for the sudden violence. I'd like to end my words with a verse from Nazim Hikmet's "Don't Kill Clouds" poem: "Running through a six-year-old boy/Fratting through trees" I'm saying. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0093par0052	Thank you. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Thus, negotiations on the provisions of the bill are completed. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help from members who can't get into the system, and I'd like to ask them to deliver the ballots to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of a clear vote on whether our participation in the Law, Knowledge, Tenfiz and Co-operation Act is appropriate: ▪ Number of votes used: 206 [[x]] Alif Doğan Türkmen Özcan Purçu That way, the bill is legalized, and good luck. Now, we will begin negotiations with Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 2nd place, in accordance with the International Charter of Children's Welfare and Other Family Welfare Types. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 281 rows. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, the first word on the entire bill belongs to Mus MP Burcu Çelik Özkan. Here you are, Mr. Steel Özkan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0094par0076	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak on behalf of my group on behalf of the Dear Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report that we are eligible to participate in the International Collection of Child Welfare and Other Family Welfare Types. But first, I, the President, will ask you to keep the silence.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0093par0077	Congressmans, the speaker has begun speaking on the stand. Quiet, please.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0094par0078	Now, everyone has a pretty good idea of how to get into the alimony process. Before, of course, there must be a marriage, and then the marriage must face the process of divorce, so that we can talk about alimony. Now, the policies of the ruling government, which today is trying to promote marriages, unfortunately, can't make marriages last long, can't stop them. Here's the thing: All the arrangements that power has made for the family are almost all attempts to make the family an antidemocratic structure. In order for the collection of alimony to come out, as we've just talked about, of course, there must be a prenup. The ruling party's policies are clear as day on marriages and divorces. Early marriages are one of our country's biggest problems. In particular, it strengthens women's inequality in society, causing women's life choices and life choices to decrease. The goal of power in 3 children's policy is to encourage women to give birth, keep the population high, support the expansion of the labour market, and thus lower wages. The woman in the house will look after the children and help the household survive with activities that bring in additional income, both low and low. Of course, the domestic-sex-based business department is shaped over her. As women have more children, the burden of caring for them is in the family and above the woman, of course. The more women give birth to children, the more they will withdraw from the labour market and will be shut down in houses. What about the women who continue to work? Because who can argue that the woman who works in a social order where all women are first told that they are mothers, more than that, is free of the burden of being mothers? The government wants to develop more judgment over the woman's body by saying: "Make children for women." We have a government that intends to get everyone married, which is one of the only policies in which college students are given financial support to encourage marriage. As you all know, college students were given a marriage loan in 2013 for $10,000. In addition, college students who were married were granted housing. It is impossible to understand the logic of encouraging and borrowing students who are still young and have no experience in life. It is also an important problem for young women to be narrowed down and forced to marry as the only option. At this time, the government brings important legislation concerning women to the agenda of Parliament in the way of a bag of legislation. The maternity leave stipulates that women should be removed from social and economic life by making arrangements for women to work part-time, for private employment offices and for hire. Women's employment turnouts, which seem to be improved and supported, are fundamentally flexible by placing women's employment participation in the conditions. The drafts encourage women to bear children, not to participate in employment. You're putting all kinds of laws and regulations in front of us to get women out of business. In addition, we have the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which makes the woman no more than a housewife. The comments and attitudes of Minister Sema Ramazanoglu, who is head of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, have, unfortunately, made no more sense to women than being housewifes. Therefore, we continue to propose the establishment of the women's ministry as the People's Democratic Party. Because this ministry is intended to conduct special and realistic work on the problems of women and children in the country. There's been a public spot recently. In this public spot, imagine that what we need to do is to help the children with the joy of living, the hope of holding on to life, and the anxiety of the future in this public spot -- me personally, as a person who doesn't like to use the word "kid" and the word "comel" together, but as a person who doesn't think it's right -- unfortunately, we've seen what we call images in these public spotlights. These are also the right proportional publications with the government's policies. Sadly, however, none of these have been able to stop marriages from being short. Here's the thing: We also need to go through a divorce process until we get to the alimony process. It is clear that almost 70% of divorce applications are made by women and are primarily caused by cultural, sociological, economic, and social reasons. In this sense, if the government wants to prevent divorces, it must also work to ensure gender equality. Divorce may be a priority for the government in Turkey, but it is not a priority issue for us. If the government wants to make a improvement, it has to make it necessary to provide psychological support for women and children, to facilitate access to legal services, to make arrangements for women to benefit from the SGK. These are the factors that affect alimony collection. Despite the extraordinary support of the ruling policies, incentives and efforts, marriages do not last long in the country. Let's just say that your policies clearly and clearly create an unhappy and hopeless society. Despite policies that encourage marriage, the divorce rate has increased by 38 per cent in the last decade. According to the TÜİK report, the result reflected in 2015 is that divorce has increased by 5 per cent in one year only in one year. In short, it is imperative that the government pass these policies through its own filter and conduct a women-indicated policy. Here's the thing about the bill: alimony. There's no law school, no women's rights, no children's rights. These are unique rights and rights that require positive discrimination in our time. So beyond human rights, these people need special rights so society can really move forward. Lawmakers or those who witness the divorce process know how the alimony process works. Alms are usually ruled in favor of children and women. In some exceptional cases, men can also benefit from child support provisions. It is a natural consequence that divorces are more for economic reasons than for failure to meet the burden of child support in our country. Unrefundable alimony is intended to be collected directly through execution. But when we go to the executive offices today, and look at the files in the executive offices a little bit, you'll see that when we set up a commission and do a review there, the majority of the executive files are unrefundable child support files again. At this point, the child support provider -- he's not staying here -- and if he asks for child support, if he makes a suggestion, as you all know, he can be arrested for failing to fulfil his child support obligations. The current laws and implementation both affect and victimize both the women and the children and the child's child and the child's child's child. The bill, of course, makes sense if it's practical. One, you should have more children. Explain your policies on how to build these children's futures first to a community you call them. Is that a policy? No. Second, I want you to be sure that if you can't pay the alimony debt and maybe not pay the alimony debt, so as a child support lender in our country right now, there are countless people in our country who are obviously, clearly, asking you this question: while you haven't yet been able to pay child support in your country in domestic law, in the international plane, we think it's natural for you to come up with a question that you might be able to solve the alimony collection by being part of a single contract. It's a pity that just being on the side of contracts can't solve this chronic collection issue. The victim of an underpaid child is a separate case. If this child -- if the father is a child or a mother -- it doesn't matter -- his relationship with his parent, his mother, his father -- is connected only to this person, so legally, he sees himself tied to this person. As a matter of fact, it's about the child's education, health, food needs. Imagine that a marriage ended for economic reasons, and a father or mother is living on minimum wage, and yet the court decides to pay 200 lira a month, whoever is responsible for it. At this point, when the marriage is already over for economic reasons, how can you expect the person who has this obligation to pay this alimony? All of these bills, all of these issues that have been tried to be legalized quickly -- of course we've been saying here for days -- are related to the EU integration process, and of course it's related to visa exemption. These are the plans that are being quickly legalized to create the substrate of a particular system. The lack of a healthy subcommittee work, not enough debate on it, is the biggest flaw in the bill. Subcommittee work, as you all know, is done by finger, so the subcommittee is no different from here. Everyone here is a member of a commission. Work in subcommittees, we have different proposals, and if there are too many members of the ruling party, unfortunately they're being suspended without seeing each other, which is not even discussed. At this point, we are all witnesses to subcommittee studies where no proposal has been discussed, even if the opposition parties have a healing suggestion. You're all witnesses to the membership of lawmakers in subcommittee and their work there, as we say. At this point, the ruling party could quickly be trying to legalize these laws, these bills. But for the next few days, perhaps we should do a healthy law study for our children and children. The international contracts that Turkey sided with are quite large. In particular, there are no agreements -- the country, Turkey -- that are internationally qualified for children's rights, but there are no agreements -- that are not signed. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, CEDAW, or the long definition, under the Convention on Avoiding Every Kind of Segregation Against Women and the Convention on Child Rights, under which Turkey must abide. I'd like to say a few words here, especially in reference to CEDAW's 6th report. In this report, the concern for the continuation of early and forced marriages in Turkey is clear. At this point, in fact, if you look at it, the internal law has not been changed as much as the past; the real problem here is the implementation of the measures. These measures are not sufficient. It's a shame that just being on the side of contracts doesn't show that contracts are being applied in this country. Of course, the collection of child support and family alimony is important for the poor because of divorce. However, everyone must accept that the state is the state that must protect the children's rights in the first place, at which point the state is the highest authority. Besides, we, all of us, as individuals, all of you, each of us, are responsible for protecting the rights of children, under the roof of this Parliament. Of course, on an agenda where we discuss child rights, we also need to discuss children's rights. In 2015, just now, again, our substitute friend stated that 875 children -- this is very important -- have died for preventable reasons. In addition, in the conflicting process in the country, most of those who have lost their lives in areas where the blockades continue are children. A deputy friend from the ruling ranks just said they're all terrorists.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0095par0098	You're responsible, you're responsible!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0094par0099	We've been calling the children's names here for days. We told them all their age, how they lost their lives, how they were slaughtered. We're never going in here again and again.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0096par0100	The one who calls the murdered children "terrorists."
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0097par0102	Congressmans, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0094par0103	I just think we should call the three-month-old Miray baby's name here again. At this point, the blockades... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Guys, I have something very important to say, look, everyone listen with their conscience. Children who lost their lives under the blockades today, on the rubble, again, as these blockades continued, the children who stood on top of the houses that had been destroyed and turned to rubble, the tears of the wounded boy in the palace on April 23rd also show one thing: Peace must be spoken in this country. All of these children, but they all just say peace. At this point, the legalisation of legislation in this Parliament is passed by the country's war and fascism process, choosing the path to an honorable and lasting peace. We all know very well that the path to social peace in this country goes through the agreement of the Dolmabahçe, which is now destroyed. The Dolmabahçe agreement, if we know, is an important map for all segments to be owned. It's important that the Parliament fulfills its responsibility without further polarization and allowing civil war to deepen. It's essential for our children and for our future. At this point, dear friends, I would like to finally say that there is no path to peace, friends, peace itself is the road. With these feelings, I hope you'll all take responsibility and do the necessary work. Again, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0098par0111	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ardahan MP Özturk Yilmaz will speak. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0099par0114	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on behalf of the esteemed law bill and the Foreign Commission Report that we are eligible to join the International Collection of Child Welfare and Other Family Welfare Types. I salute the High Council. First of all, the Reception Agreement is a pattern proposed by the European Union to candidate countries negotiating for visa liberalisation. This is a process in which the European Union has strengthened its criteria in particular over the last decade. 72 criteria are envisioned; this is presented as the accepted country's homework. The process is not automatically completed after the 72 criteria have been met. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to give you some technical information. Now, when Prime Minister made his statement on April 22nd, he announced that a large portion of the 72 criteria had been completed and reduced to one household. However, on the same day, the president of the EU Compliance Commission at TBM said 55 criteria were met, so there are still 17 criteria left, and the same day, particularly from European Commission officials, it was announced that Turkey had fulfilled only 19 criteria, which only fulfilled 19 criteria. So this is a relative process, depending on how it's evaluated. So we have to do our homework, and the European Union Commission will do the evaluation. The Commission -- we have very little time left in front of us -- will submit its first assessment report in May. If a positive green light comes out of the evaluation report, it does not automatically mean visa liberalisation for Turkey. This report must go to the European Parliament this time under what they call the common decision-making mechanism developed under the Lisbon Treaty. In the European Parliament, we know that this agreement presented with Turkey as the ▪Multegrator Agreement was criticised too much, that critics are more than those who meet it. So we'll see what happens here. Velev, even if a positive result comes out of this, it's still not going into automatic action within the framework of this codeciion, the common decision-making mechanism. In this case, the Council of Europe must also decide whether it is qualified or not. The process is very long. Thus, it seems that it will not be easy to make these evaluations, to make these decisions, and to come up with a positive decision in June. In fact, that's clear in the Turkish-EU statement on March 18th. Directly, when the laws on these 72 criteria are adopted, it doesn't say.............. It's about speeding up the process, which leads to visa liberalisation. The visa process is not automatically said to be granted visa liberalisation. There's a lot of nuances in this deal. Therefore, no matter how hard we run, starting May 4th, the European Commission's report and then Parliament's decision will be decisive, and the European Council will decide later. If this whole process is completed positively, if it results in a positive outcome, then visa liberalisation will be granted in Turkey. However, the technical dimension of this incident is the commission, the size of it up to the commission, perhaps relatively technical size. After the commission, negotiations in Parliament and the Council are a political process. The issue of visas for Turkey is a political decision-making mechanism in the European Union, which will not operate automatically. As a negotiating country since 2005, when we study visa liberalisation and Reception Agreement synchronization provided to other countries that have already joined the European Union far ahead of us, it really turns out that Turkey's process has been taken away, slowed down, auto-functioned, and that this process is essentially going to fall apart after a while, and we hope that this is not going to happen. As the Republican People's Party, we are pleased to grant visa liberalisation, support this arrangement that will end the disgrace of Turkish citizens in tails, of course, and we have already explained in parliament that we would support it, but we need to know that the process will not be as easy as it was stated that day. When we look at it from the European Union, there's a double standard facing Turkey. The process is always diluted; it is diluted by Cyprus, watered by the so-called Armenian genocide, watered by other issues. Turkey's negotiation process is not held at its proper place because there is a lack of will, there is no will. This approach of the European Union is, unfortunately, a critical approach, but not only with the European Union's approach, but the government in Turkey does not have the will to make arrangements that will not be a subject to these criticisms. The rule of law, judicial independence, especially in freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and other areas, unfortunately does not show the necessary will to prevent the European Union from being criticized in areas that guarantee basic rights and freedoms. And yet, this lack of willpower on both sides prevents a result. I'd like to present another topic: Now, we are told that visa liberalisation will be recognised by the end of June at the end of the European Union, at the end of June at the latest; and what will happen when it is not given is explained by the government: we do not apply the Responsibility Agreement. Well -- it's technical information -- the agreement signed on March 18th, which was agreed upon, is not only re-acquired and there's no visa, there's another issue. What? Negotiations are being accelerated and new chapters are being opened. Well, aren't we on the offside again when a step like this is taken? Aren't we being pushed aside with the wrong strategy? When we put this on hold, I mean, when we make this deal, it's something to think about. It's not a step, and when we suspend it, they'll block out chapter 33 that's there, and they'll block out other chapters. So, unfortunately, there wasn't enough computation during this synchronization, and we saw it with sadness. And the agreement on these refugees should not have been involved in Turkey's negotiation process in any way, because our negotiation process is already full of challenges, it's already difficult, there's already a lot of prejudices in Europe against Turkey's membership, there are many parties working against it. And yet, we've made it seem as if the negotiations would be blocked if we didn't take enough steps about them, and we've narrowed down ourselves, our maneuvering field, and now we're running around to see if we can grow it. He stayed here for ten days. Even if we grow them all, the European Commission will look at them, and this is not fully implemented. The point is set when it says so. We got into the wrong place, and we're going to the wrong conclusion. We definitely shouldn't involve anything in the negotiation process after this; Cyprus has already been infected, the so-called Armenian genocide has already been infected, the Aegean islands have already been infected, other countries have been infected with good neighbourhood, and this one has been infected. So we really need to stop shooting ourselves in the foot. If we wanted to provide visa liberalisation, we should have made it a separate package of refugees; as they wanted, we should not have put all the issues that worked for them into a single package; we will not be able to get out now. Another issue -- as promised -- is an attack on Turkey's national security right now. The terrorist organization is launching attacks on our church from Syria, and our people are dying. People can't get out of fear anymore. Although the schools aren't vacations -- yesterday's information -- the kids can't go. There's panic in the public, and I wonder if Katyusha rockets will fall on our heads. We need to take some serious precautions. This is not an attack on a city of Turkey, it is an attack on Turkey. You have to name it and take proper precautions. Why is Turkey being attacked? If a terrorist organization is attacking Turkey, we should also expose this terrorist organization and take the harshest measure on it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In such an environment, Turkey, unfortunately, cannot be made the target of the terrorist organization and put in jeopardy Turkey's border security, people's lives and property security. We must not allow it, and we will provide the necessary support for the measures to be taken. As long as it's about Turkey's safety, peace, the peace of our citizens, we support everything. We expect the government to explain what's happening in the church, why these rockets are being launched, who's throwing them, what's the point. I'd like to point out that we would be happy to inform the House of this matter, and that this is essentially an obligation for the government. I hereby salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0100par0127	Thank you. I submit to your votes that the matter be passed...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0101par0129	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0100par0130	All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0101par0131	I asked for the number of decisions, but...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0100par0132	We'll consider it next time. The guidance of the law is that we should not agree to be associated with the nationality of the children's NAFAKA and the other family. It is fitting that we participate with statements and statements after withdrawing from the Convention on the International Collection of Children's Child Welfare and Other Family Welfare Types. Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak has asked on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 1. Here you go, Mr. Parsak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0102par0140	I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the National Movement Party's Charter for Saint Turkish nation, respected lawmakers; Children's alimony of 281 rows and other Family Types' Compliances' Compromise on International Collection. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, family is the most valuable institution that builds the peace and trust of society. The family's rise on solid foundations that feed on love and compassion means that it has a balanced and healthy network of relationships, not just an individual, but a generation's. It is an important fact that today, when change takes place at an overwhelming rate, the family, the building block of society, has to deal with serious problems. Not only parents, but children, young people, even grandparents, are worn out by being alone with family problems in the course of life. God, the Most High, says in the 35th verse of Nisa: "If you fear that the spouses will be separated, appoint an arbiter from his family and an arbiter from her family. If both parties desire to set things right, Allah will bring about a reconciliation between them, and will judge between them. Indeed Allah is all-knowing, all-aware. As a matter of fact, in the former Turks, the family business held an important place in social life, based on Turkish social life, family and kinship. The Turkish family structure has lived for thousands of years in unity and solidarity in existence and absence. The Turkish woman has been regarded as just as valuable as men, taking on important tasks in both the family and the state administration. Like his man, the Turkish woman who rides, uses guns, hunts, has become the husband's wife in strength, long - suffering, zeal, determination, and courage. The importance of the Turkish family structure and of the Turkish woman, once again understood in each war, the Turkish nation finally ran to the front in the Battle of Salvation, men, women, old men, children, and showed the world once again its spirit of heroism in social solidarity. As it turns out, both our great religion, Islam, and the family institution in Turkish law and customs, are important. There is no doubt that our religion is equally important in our law and in our lives as well as in the family union, which is so important in Islam and Turkish law and customs. Members of parliament, the international contract, which was the source of the Dair Law Bill, which was held between November 5th and 23rd 2007, was held between November 5th and 2007, as part of the 21st annual contract on Children's Children's Children's Children's Children's and Other Family's Types' International Collection. The Hague International Special Law Conference opened for signing. As with all the laws we've discussed in the General Assembly recently, unfortunately, the source of this bill is the dialogue for visa liberalisation, as the Prime Minister calls it, the Kayseri negotiation. There is no doubt that the draft law on the 2007 international contract is a quick work for the power that only the Turkish Grand National Assembly could come to its agenda in 2016. Dear lawmakers, let us, of course, discuss any positive legislation and international contracts regarding children, family structure, or the maintenance of individuals who continue their lives after the dissolution of family structure. However, I would like to point out that the Turkish nation expects us not to accept the laws brought to the General Assembly in a hurry, but to perform practices that will ensure the continuation of the family structure, protect the children of divorced families, and carry out the necessary legal arrangements in this matter. According to official data from the Turkish Statistical Agency, 131,830 divorces took place in 2015, and 13.073 of the marriages that resulted in this divorce lasted only one year and 4,814 less than a year. On the other hand, 103 of these marriages ended in adultery, 38 by intent on life, 35 by crime and dishonor, 210 by abandonment, 57 by mental illness, and 128,152 by violent dissension. At this point, this extraordinary height of divorces due to severe dissension should not be overlooked, with poor economic conditions, deception, and abuse hidden behind these divorces. In this way, dissension arises in every aspect of our lives. Problems such as economic dissension, domestic dissension, interpersonal dissension have unfortunately become one of the greatest issues of our age that are facing a solution. Also, 981 couples divorced in 2015 in Afyonkarahisar, my constituency. Afyonkarahisar is unfortunately the 25th province in Turkey, among the highest cities in which the number of divorces is high. As you can see, Turkey's one-year divorce painting is pathetic. Congressmans, the structure of family integrity in a society is completely proportional to the values that constitute that society. So if there's something going on in the community, it's going to be reflected in the family structure. This system, like the fall of dominoes in turn, unfortunately also appears in our family structures in our country, causing major problems in our social life. Apart from the numbers I just gave you, I'd like to present you with some dramatic figures on the increase in divorce numbers over the years. The number of divorces, which were 91.994 across the country in 2001 -- in 2002 -- by skipping the sides -- increased to 95 thousand in 2008, 99 in 2008, 114,000 in 2009, 14,000 in 2011, 120,000 in 2015 to 132,000 in 2015. As you can see, divorce numbers in our country have been significantly increased since 2002. The cause of these increases, of course, is clear and clear. And right here is the domino effect that I just described. Because the economic challenges in our country, including unemployment, wrong policies in the educational system, social unrest, insecurity of justice, and terrorism, are directly affecting our family structure. Honourable lawmakers, of course, the most victims of these divorces are certainly in the interests of our children, who are the future of the Turkish nation. Our children want to live a life of happiness and happiness with their family, not alimony. Child support and other family maintenance types, of course, are important to each individual in a broken family, but it is our first duty to keep the patient alive rather than incarcerate the patient. In addition, serious number of divorces and alimony losses in our country have resulted in increased number of child workers, number of homeless children, number of children running away from home and being led to crime. In addition to these issues, our children's addiction to drugs comes as a natural result of broken homes. Finally, I would like to suggest that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, so to speak, instead of being a foundation lawyer, only do his own work, stress the importance of the government's urgent initiative to address all the problems we've explained. As long as the AKP government does not resolve the problems of economic, social, educational and unemployment in our country, the number of divorces will continue to increase, and the number of victims will also increase. Again, another important issue is that the government is preparing a special protection and support package instead of using their martyred children at football stadiums for political purposes. I would like to end with the words of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who greets the Veteran Assembly with my compliments: "Kids, the assurance of our future, the joy of our life. It is the duty of all of us to raise today's child as the elder of tomorrow. With these thoughts, once again, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit05spe0103par0159	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. Congressmans, I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0103par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with Bill 281 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. On the first article of the bill, Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan is in charge of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0104par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on the 1st article of the Dair Law Bill, that we are eligible to join the International Collection of Child Welfare and Other Family Orphanage Types. I salute your high council. First, I would like to point out: of course, given when the letter was signed -- a few valuable speakers just expressed -- the international contract was signed in The Hague in 2007, the private law contract and ten years from that date, but unfortunately, no rush is being done. And we know why this contract comes in a hurry these days after ten years, once, first of all, this is one of 72 chapters under visa liberalisation with the European Union. As the Republican People's Party, we don't have any opposition to this, and we want this to come up and legalize as soon as possible, but first, two days before we get here, the Constitutional Commission -- the subcommittee was set up -- the Political Ethics Act, which is one of the 72 chapters -- came in, even though it has changed in the Commission. The thing about this political ethics has been on the agenda of Parliament for many years, and although many lawmakers have offered it, unfortunately, it has been rushed by the imposition of the EU. And there we said, "I mean, we'll accept it as soon as possible, but at least let's have a law proposal that's consistent with the norms of the European Union, that's objective, that's measureable." But unfortunately, we couldn't get it there, and we have reservations about it. Mr. Ozturk has just made it very clear that even if these chapters are accepted, we have doubts about what may happen tomorrow, whether the European Commission will accept the European Parliament's visa liberalisation on this issue. Hopefully he will, so I'm thinking that the victims that Turkish citizens encounter at customs gates, border crossings, should be avoided as soon as possible. Of course, if this goes through, if this is accepted, then all the problems that arise from divorce, especially with the laws of arbitration and autonomy, internationally private law, the Civil Law, you know, five chapters: the law of the individual, family law, debt law, property law, and inheritance law. With the provisions of these five chapters of international private legal legislation, we will integrate into the norms of the European Parliament, and the problems resulting from it will be eliminated. First of all, let me make this clear. Now, my dear friends, in relation to this, as I have just stated, we have no opposition. Now that I have my word, I'd like to talk about something else. Now, valued lawmakers, one of the most important tasks in Parliament, one of the most important duties of lawmakers is the task of auditing. We're either filing a written question motion or applying to Parliament with a verbal question motion. A parliamentary investigation or a gene, a parliamentary investigation is one of them. All the questions that we, as lawmakers, have submitted to the president, are coming back with standard writing, valued lawmakers. So, in the previous period, in the 24th term, we've made a written motion on many issues, Mr. Cemil Cicek processed them -- there are examples here -- without touching his decimal point, my dear friends, without touching his decimal point. And I came in the 26th term, and gave to the Speaker of the House the written motions that were not answered. The Speaker of Parliament stands for two articles. One of them is the 96, and the other is the 97, of the Civil Charter. I don't want to go into too much detail, and it makes it very clear there that you can't ask any questions about private matters, for consultation purposes. Now, my dear friends, when we ask these questions, if in the past period, Mr. Speaker of Parliament, Cemil Cicek... there are two motions that I have never touched his decimal point. Let me explain one of these right away. I asked Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, Mr. Prime Minister, and one in 2016 to Mr. Efkan Ala. One number 819, the other number 842. Returned, it says: "These do not carry the necessary conditions. I mean, I want to bring this to the agenda of Parliament. We asked the same questions without touching the decimal point when Cemil Cicek was Speaker in 2014, Mr. Speaker gave it a visa and they came to Parliament's agenda, but they weren't answered by the concerned ministers. But now, at the same time, Mr. Ismail Kahraman returned these. Now, my dear friends, the Speakership works here as a censorship board, implements the filter method -- it's impossible to accept -- and the ministers we've asked questions about are unfortunately not really answering the questions we're asking. Now, I'd like to share one question with you, a question I've asked in the past tense. I'm asking the Prime Minister a question, and I'm saying that we've been having some reservations about the renovation of the names of the government stadiums. Antalya Arena, formerly named Antalya Ataturk Stadium. You built the stadium of the Afyon Arena, formerly known as the Opium Ataturk Stadium. You made Hatay Ataturk Stadil to Antioch Arena. And thou didst build the house of Ataturk, the Arena of the Croc. And ye made Es-Es Arena the city of Ataturk. You've done Sakarya Ataturk Stadium in Sakarya Arena. Look at the coincidences. You made the Rize Ataturk Stadium the Rize City Stadium. And you made the name of the house of Ataturk, and the name of the house of Samsun, Arena. You have made the name of Samuel Ismetpaşa Stadium the Same Arena. Is it true, Mr. Akar?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0105par0016	They destroyed it, they destroyed it.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0104par0017	Now, look, I'm asking you, why did you do all this? I ask the Prime Minister why you changed the names of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of the Republic, leader of our National Liberation War. I'm reading the answer the Prime Minister gave me. Look, under it is the signature of Mr. Akif Çazatay Kılıç. As Minister of Sports. Look, the answer he's given me is this... I'm asking him why, because you changed the name of Ataturk, Mr. Secretary says to me, "Why, as the government and the Ministry, why did you change the name of our republic, the minister of youth and Sports answer to me: why do you want to make it a political issue of our entire nation? Friends, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk... we are in the Veteran Assembly, this is the Parliament of Ataturk. I'm just saying, why did you change the name of the stadium? It goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and I was surprised at first, why he answered like that. Look, let me tell you a story that happened in Artvin. Now, I think the Minister of Youth and Sports has probably followed the example of the governor of the county. Before the 30th of March 2014 local elections, political leaders came to Artvin, with a dear friend, and Mr. Prime Minister, and so did our President. The helicopter that brought in our president was going to land on Artvin, before the 30th of March elections, everything was okay, there's no problem, and that's where he landed on the football field. The day before, we found out that the governor of the county called us. No, Mr. General President's helicopter can't land here. We said, "How can he not land?" He said, "It hurts the grass. It's a helicopter." We said, "Allah, where did this come from?" I told the county manager: Mr. Director, it's not realistic. The heads of state or political parties who come here always come down here. Then give me a written answer. The county manager doesn't like it. That's exactly what we're petitioning to the mayor, and I'm the one who wrote the petition: Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu will come to our city by helicopter for our rally on Wednesday (March 5, 2014). The mayor has petitioned that the helicopter be granted permission to land at the Iskebe City Stadium. I read without touching a word of the city's governor's response to the petition: "Artvin City Stadium is synthetic grass surfaced and is not allowed to land on synthetic grass because of the ejection of serial granite and quartz sand on the carpet during the landing of helicopters. I'd like you to know that it's possible, it's perfectly normal, and we respect that. Okay, so our President-General went down to a crosswalk we called a helicopter, and we brought it up in difficult conditions. Our helicopter, Mr. General President's helicopter, is what's called a small helicopter. It's been ten days, and we've looked at the same stadium, and look at the precious MPs, three Skorskys have landed, the Prime Minister's helicopters.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0105par0018	Don't let him down!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0106par0019	The Skorskys will be all over the place.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0104par0020	You know how he was hurting the quartz thing? Now, this is the county manager. First, I thought I'd complain to the county manager -- I don't want to hurt you -- that's how it is.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0107par0021	The little ones can't get down!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0104par0022	First I was going to complain, then I stopped complaining. You know why? In that first helicopter, there is the president of the CHP who sits in the seat of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I did not complain to the county manager that it was because of him that it was bad for the grass. Now, at the coming point, if the county manager does that, that's what the minister will say, my dear friends. So I'm asking you, Mr. Vice President, to tell our Speaker here, not to have our Parliamentary Speaker hand over all the petitions that we've already submitted in this fashion.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0108par0024	Did you lose the election from him, Mr. Uður? Did you lose the election when the helicopter didn't land? But you lost the city.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0104par0025	One of the legislature's legal control methods is the written question; you will answer the written question, you will answer the verbal question. If he's not responding to this, let the concerned minister answer, Mr. Speaker has no such task, no such filtering mission, no such job. I mean, this isn't a censorship board, it's an answer to our questions. We know exactly what question to ask, we've been in Parliament for a long time. I hope there will be no more mistakes in this matter, and I hope the Speaker is not in that position. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0109par0028	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, it belongs to Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0110par0032	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding Child Child Child Child Child Child Child Child Welfare in 281 rows and that it is appropriate for us to participate in the International Collection of the Other Family Kinds. I salute you all. Now, of course, dear friends, child support and family support are actually a serious problem in implementing it. In particular, when it is assumed that we have a population of close to 5-6 million citizens in Europe, some of which are dual citizens, there are serious difficulties in implementing these alimony payments, especially in Turkey, or again, in paying alimony debts in Europe. Thus, the finding of this agreement may have solved this problem a little bit, but essentially, it's a serious problem for our domestic law, the collection of child support and other family support is a problem. I mean, it's one thing to get court-martialed, but it's a whole problem to collect it through execution. So, hopefully, within this contract, our internal legislation will be regulated in a democratic way, and again, there will be arrangements to facilitate the collection of these child supports. Now, of course, especially children who have been victimized in these type of alimony issues stemming from divorce cases. According to OECD (OECD) reports, Turkey is very low among the OECD countries in terms of children's financial situation, health and environmental education. Again, Turkey's responsibility for only risky behavior comes after Mexico, for example. In terms of data and internal legislation from EU progress reports and NGOs, especially NGOs that run for children, I hope on this occasion -- especially since every one of our proposals, every law proposal, has been rejected in advance -- our proposals are taken into consideration and evaluated by the ruling group. For example, in the progress report of these institutions and the European Union, the data obtained by similar NGOs has been found in Turkey, where there is a significant difference between genders in secondary education. Again, in school books, gender bias has not been fully removed. Again, the rate of poverty among children is disproportionately high; for those under 6 years of age, it is 24 per cent, and in rural areas, it is quite high, reaching 49 per cent. It's an effective internal mechanism to fight domestic violence against children, unfortunately, not in our internal law. There is no regulation to improve conditions in full-time day care. Again, we have not yet made a measurable improvement in the fight against child labor. We don't have an integrated system to eliminate child labor. Unfortunately, children are still being tried in severe criminal courts for adults, even though the Anti-Terror Law stipulates that severe conditions cannot be applied to children and that children will only be tried in juvenile courts or in juvenile criminal courts. Juvenile detention centers are understaffed. Although the Children's Protection Act is also a provision for the establishment of children's courts in 81 districts, the length of cases in juvenile courts, which have not yet been established, has increased by 2,500 children aged 12 to 18 years in prison -- however, the prison sentence for children has to be the most recently applied punishment and should cover the shortest time -- unfortunately, this is not considered in practice. Dear friends, at the moment, perhaps one of the more dramatic problems is, for example, her parents, especially many children whose mothers are convicted, are growing up in prison conditions and thus execute the sentence with the mother. Therefore, we have no arrangement for this, but there is a reverse situation. For example, the parents are inside, but the child may be being raised by his grandparents outside, so there is no arrangement for him to develop a healthy relationship with his parents in prison, psychologically and socially. In addition to all of this, despite the sadness of children's sexual abuse, rape, torture, these places and these places are particularly controlled by the state, such as prisons, children's homes, foundations, schools, and also the fact that those who perform these verbs are largely people who use state-of-the-art. Besides all that, of course, it's another big problem, maybe even a child-age marriage problem. For example, there is information that Mr. Sema Ramazanoglu himself, Minister of Family and Social Policy, gave on a question proposal. For example, the number of children married in 2010 reached 45,738 years, 42,700 in 2011, 40,428 in 2012, 37,481 in 2013, 34,629 in 2014, 31,337 in 2015. So we approve of these contracts, in accordance with the European curriculum or legislation, or we participate in these contracts, but in parallel, these agreements will not yield much in practice unless we make our own internal law available, but they will not contribute to the maintenance of both parents and other family members, perhaps to the benefit of foreign nationals, or to the benefit of our citizens abroad. On this occasion, I salute you all, hoping for a positive outcome.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0111par0043	I submit the item to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0112par0044	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0111par0045	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who accept Article 1... those who do not accept Article 1... are accepted by Article 1, there is enough to decide. Now, I'm going to read the 2nd article: Article 2. - This goes into effect in the history of law enforcement. Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel will speak on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group on behalf of the groups on Article 2. Here you are, Mr. Ironel. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0113par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, yes, with this clause, in fact, it should be put into effect...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0111par0056	One moment, Mr. Ironel, I'm sorry. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0113par0058	Yes, in Turkey, we have a very large and weak report card on violence and discrimination against women and children. The only way to fix this is not by preparing these substances and these European Union laws of integration, but by actually solving all problems in general. Of course, in this European Union agreement, we know that studies on visas are important and meaningful in the laws of integration. But, unfortunately, all the talks, rhetoric, practice that are being made here are denied in our spaces, in the later stages. We saw the best example of this in the statement we made here on April 23rd. As you know, on April 23rd, the President of the General Assembly used the following statements: "There is no agreement in Dolmabahçe, where did such a thing come from? There is no such agreement. He said, "There is no such agreement, there is no such agreement. " We'd like to ask you: Yes, this is what Dolmabahçe said when he referred to the agreement that he didn't actually present today, that he said it didn't happen, that the president said it didn't happen, that it didn't happen, but it didn't happen. Are we going to take this picture, or are we going to take the President's word for it yesterday? That's the day the agreement was signed, the day the Dolmabahçe agreement was declared. We, the HDP Group, are behind this agreement, and we want to say that we own it, but it still ignores the President and ignores it. Yet all the peoples of Turkey have seen it, all the peoples of the world. Which is right, let this General Assembly decide, let the peoples of Turkey decide. Is that the right photo, or is it the President's statement yesterday true? Again, as you know... we know very well that it happened within the President's knowledge until this seating arrangement. We wanted to show you this one more time. But, on the same day, again, on February 28, 2015, the President says in his statement prior to his visit to Saudi Arabia, even following a journalist's question: "This is a call we long for," he says. And we'd like to remind you again. As he made this call, the next day, there was also a historic call in all the headlines. You know these headlines, where the President says how important the application is. Again, it was the spring of peace. Other press members have expressed it. He said the language of violence will end, Mr. Davutoglu. In the same way, let's show another headline called peacetime. And in this headline, the calls are good, and they're in practice. He said, President. And again, on April 23rd, we expressed the difference between the impact processes that we're describing here and the solution and the Dolmabahçe agreement. On that very day, Mr. Davutoglu went to prison, and the solution came. He made statements and we watched it all very clearly in the press and in public. In the same way, the President expressed many things, but since I will not be able to continue, I will only express a few of them here: my lieutenant is the one who stands behind these statements, and steps are taken about it. Whom he does not stand behind, has been revealed a little bit more after yesterday's speech by the President. So, the most important and meaningful day in the history of the struggle for democracy was the day that the Dolmabahçe understanding took place, and a day that society had been looking forward to in private with great hope in the peace process; it is necessary to see this. Again, it was welcomed by every part of society that day, not the deaths, but the formulating of an equal, free, and social peace that strengthened the bond of belonging to each problem, which was clear to everyone. We want to ask again if Mr. Prime Minister thinks like the President. There's been no statement from the Prime Minister. Or can you say that as the government, you have the effort and the partnership in creating the Dolmabahçe text, which has brought the meat to the bone, which gives the solution momentum? Again, if this ownership had been done, there's a good chance that all of our people who died would be alive right now. Yes, if the Dolmabahçe agreement had come true, we would be talking about peace and resolution, not this war, but we would be talking about the fact that those who lost their lives in the previous sessions were not lost today, and we would have provided that integrity. I, for short, would like to remind you again what was in the text, what was in it, what was signed, and what was said in this declaration. Instead of the armed struggle, democratic politics was discussed as a historical declaration of intent and the Dolmabahçe agreement, which would be the main backbone of a real democracy and of our great peace. 1) The definition and content of democratic politics. 2) The recognition of the national and local dimensions of the democratic solution. 3) Free citizenship, legal and democratic guarantees. 4) The relationship between democratic politics with the state and society and the institutionalisation of it. 5) The analysis of the socioeconomic dimensions of the solution process. 6) The solution is to address democracy-security relations in a way that protects public order and freedoms. 7) Women, culture and ecological problems are legal solutions and guarantees. 8) The definition of identity and the development of pluralistic democratic understanding towards recognition. 9) The definition of the democratic republic, the common country and the nation in democratic criteria is legal and constitutional guarantees within the pluralistic democratic system. 10) A new constitution aimed at internalizing all these democratic movements and transformations was carried out. Of course, there's no doubt that all these issues are essential to the lack of conflict, which is to ensure that the expected historical developments can be carried out. So on behalf of the HDP (HDP) delegation and the HDP Group, we thought it would add power to this democratic framework and to these peace-loving areas in this process of democratic negotiations and resolution, and we reiterate that the Dolmabahçe agreement still needs to be carried out. Because in the process of so many deaths, so many people losing their lives, so many collapses and European laws of integration, the European Court of Human Rights would have the power to resolve these problems, particularly the freedom of thought and organisation, for which the European Court of Human Rights had condemned Turkey the most. We think that for the implementation of this Dolmabahçe agreement, the language of peace is still on the agenda and that the Dolmabahçe understanding must still be restored. At the same time as this agreement, as Mr. Davutoglu pointed out in the headlines, we expressed it in our conversation the other day, and we are still saying that it was a consensus that was actually averted from the impact processes. It was a process where all peoples, all beliefs, all identities could be brought to life by common country and democratic politics. So, with the Dolmabahçe agreement, I say that in order for democratic politics to take place today, this Parliament must take another look at it and make it happen. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0114par0078	I submit Article 2 to your votes...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0115par0079	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0114par0080	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who accept matter... those who refuse... the matter is accepted, the decision is sufficient. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of the groups on the matter, Bitlis MP Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı will speak on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0116par0087	Mr. President, on behalf of my Democratic Party of Peoples and my group, I have made a pledge on Article 281, Article 3 of the Legislature. I salute you and the public. In recent days, the government has brought many laws on visa liberalisation to Parliament and adopted and enforced by majority votes. Of course, these international steps are also important to show how power approaches many important values and what kind of path it is taking. In particular, when this value is the child, I hope that the child's international status and recent abuse of children at the Ensar Foundation and many parts of Turkey have increased the sensitivity of the individual to this issue. There was one thing that perhaps shamed us, even all of humanity, in the geography, where war has been intense lately, and the destruction, and the barbarism, that was the baby Aylan. As Europe exhibited a silent and ignorant attitude toward this dead body of the Middle East, the image of the baby being stranded was a moment that overwhelmed all over the world. And that shows us once again the importance of the child that we're going to talk about today, which is the only universal value, because every destruction, whether it's a family falling apart, or a house falling apart, would do the most permanent damage to a child, usually psychologically, can become a state of mind they won't be able to remove for a long time. When talking about an international value, the child, as well as the children's mental and physical development, it is necessary to develop an attitude and move forward in this direction that will help them develop spiritual, moral, and social development. These steps should be taken to create a truly right and healthy society, not in terms of The Hague Convention or the European Union's visa liberalisation. The government referred to visa liberalisation, which was launched again with the European Union on the basis of its bill on this issue, and planned to implement it in general. Dear lawmakers, when we evaluate a universal issue, it is not simply our expectations, but its positive and negative measurements on future generations that will be carried out. The bill we're talking about today is a plan to side with a child based on the child's superior benefit in general, and every study in the child's interest is a matter of all sizes. One of the most important needs for a child's development is its economic size. Therefore, this bill is important to meet the bill for both education and education and development. Of course, governments must play facilitating roles to compensate for the same amount of family support and provide those benefits, no matter what state they may be. Like a child, a family is a universal value, and it must be eliminated wherever it may be, as a result of this value. So it's not this bill that we have to focus on, it's the place of the child in the policies followed by the government in general. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, today we are reminded of the lives of children in Turkey, or of children when it comes to abuses, or of the lives lost by the government's war policy in the cities under embargos. The issue of child abuse with the Ensar Foundation has revealed the approaches of conscientious people and conscienceless people. There's a vision about a child that's so insensitive that it's almost nothing at once. It's a grave size to be called. I would like to say to the mentality and the relevant Ministry of the Ensar Foundation: What if that child were yours, would you have shown such a insensitive attitude? The village of Zergele, Suruç and Ankara massacres, social demonstrations, and 102 Those who have experienced bullets and artillery bullets in tiny bodies who have not yet set foot in life continue to display a rare destruction in history. According to child rights violations in 2015, the right to life of 103 children, including 61 in judicial rights violations, 1 in armed conflict, 1 in military ammunition or mines, 5 in training services, 15 in health care services while 11 in the area of eight closures and detentions, have been violated as a child on the street. In the same report, child rights violations, due to the state's lack of precautions, have been declared in the six counts of hate killings -- one in domestic violence, 18 in domestic violence, eight in peer violence, 16 in drug use, four in child labor, 55 for many reasons, 772 children's rights have been violated, and part in the report is found for refugee children. In transit from Turkey, the right of 76 children, including 59 refugee child labor deaths 11 and 6 refugee children's shelters, has been violated as a result of the state's insufficient measures. Finally, the report said that the cities in which the most intensive child abuses took place were Diyarbakır and Şırnak during the first two periods, and this report only dates back to 2015. Mr. President, I'm not anxious or anxious to tease you with this data or make you look weak. These data are not the data I've prepared, but the report card against the child's policies of your government. You can't assess every good work you've done here through numerical data and the massacres of children who died in the cities of embargo and war, only in the name of the fight against terrorism. Of course, the destruction and inadequacies of the children lost almost every day in the Aegean will not cover up your destruction and inadequacies. This bill -- as you can clearly say -- is not concerned about children's mental, physical, spiritual, and moral development, but is completely prepared for visa liberalisation, and is not particularly concerned about the child's original value. Dear lawmakers, what we expect from the ruling party is that it sees children as an adult about rights and freedom, but also as an innocent life in policies such as war and destruction. In order to create a healthy life, a healthy common country, and a habitable world, this matter is of great importance. Whether he is a refugee or a citizen or on the other side of the world, a child of universal value should be dealt with within the framework of holistic policies and a single and solid method must be followed by developing child rights. The situation of our young people who have been detained in our eastern and southeast provinces for eight or nine months and not been brought to trial in the case of the Ensar Foundation, as well as the immediate decision of the court and the single court in the case of the Ensar Foundation, demonstrates the legal understanding of the country and the violation of the principle of equality of persons in front of the law. I'd like to make one last point on the visa. Visa liberalisation must not be perceived as free movement. This does not require a tourist visa issued thirty-forty years ago, only with a visa issued by authorities at customs doors -- whether it is a week, fifteen days, or six months -- will be given by their discretion. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0117par0100	Thank you. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Thus, the negotiations on the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, I declare the open vote of the Dair Law bill that we are eligible to join the International Collection of Children's Orphanage and Other Family Orphanage Types: ▪ Number of votes used: 213 [[x]] Özcan Purçu Elif Doğan Türkmen So, the bill is legalized. Good luck with that. Now, we'll begin negotiations with Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which are ranked third in line, in accordance with the European Convention on Restitution of Criminals. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 294 rows. Mardin MP Erol Dora is on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group who wants to speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Dora. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0118par0125	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of the Public Legislature on the adoption of additional protocol to the European Convention on Restitution of Criminals No. 294. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, Turkey is favoured by the European Convention on Restitution of Criminals of 1957. The extradition proceedings between the states on the side of the contract and Turkey are already being carried out according to the terms of this contract. Turkey, however, had not been part of the 1975 additional protocol of the contract until today. The European Convention on Restitution of Criminals was signed by Turkey last March. The additional protocol we're discussing is designed to strengthen the protection of individuals and humanity, and states that genocide and crimes against humanity cannot be seen as political crimes. Of course, the government carried this protocol, not from a democratic necessity, but from the dialogue of visa liberalisation initiated by the European Union, with a superficial and symbolic approach and a rapid agenda of Parliament. Under the basis of the bill, it is possible to avoid an international agreement and to submit statements during the signing of the agreement or confirmation or a certificate of accession, under international law. In this context, our reservations and statements regarding the additional Protocol will be reported in the confirmation phase. Dear lawmakers, at this point, I find it necessary to address a number of issues about Turkey's attitude to reduce international contracts, which are widely implemented and enforced. Of course, Turkey's reservations about international contracts have become a regime after a recession. As we know, the legal text on the regime of inhibitions, which has been established internationally and is now law of law and law, is the Vienna Convention on Accords of 1969. The arrangement for reservations is included in Articles 19 and 23 of the Vienna Convention. In these articles, respectively, regulations on the issue are laid out under the legal impact of objections to reservations, objections to reservations, objections to reservations and reservations, a retraction of objections to reservations and inhibitions. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are on the side of both universal and regional comprehensive contracts and protocols in the field of human rights law and humanitarian law. Twin agreements on basic rights and freedoms, anti-racial discrimination and minority rights contracts, agreements on women's rights contracts, contracts on slavery and slavery-like practices, contracts on torture, degrading treatment and disappearances, agreements on child rights agreements on freedom of organization, contracts on labour and right of education, contracts on asylum, contracts on refugees and asylum, contracts on armed conflict laws. Dear lawmakers are declared invalid when international contracts are discussed together in the subject and in violation of their purpose, and the declarations, the Vienna Convention of 1969 and the principles of the International Law Commission are considered to be null and void. After this reminder, I'd like to continue my discussion by giving examples of various contract organs, Turkey's reservations and statements. For example, the Committee for the Elimination of Racismism, in 2009, issued a text of Result Observations, warning that Turkey's withdrawal and declarations could result in the implementation of the entire contract, as well as the hesitation, has indicated that the geographical restrictions imposed on the application of the contract should be lifted, and within a year, Turkey has requested to be informed of that. Turkey, however, has not carried out a reasonable arrangement on this issue. Again, the Human Rights Committee, which is the governing body of the Civil and Political Rights Convention, stated in its 2011 report that the reservations that Turkey put into the Civil and Political Rights Convention, which led to various minority groups, such as Kurds and Roma, to discrimination and restrict their rights, have been affected by their own culture and their use of language. Mr. President, the committee also stated that the state is obliged to ensure that all minority groups of ethnic, religious or linguistic minorities are actively protected and benefit from discrimination, and that Turkey should remove the hesitation that it has placed in Article 27, so that it can be fulfilled. The 27th article, which the committee warns Turkey to warn Turkey and to lift the recession, says: "What does the 27th article say: "In countries with ethnic, religious, or language minorities, those who belong to these minorities, along with other members of their group, will not be deprived of the right to use their own culture, to believe in their religion, or to use their own language?" Dear lawmakers, as we can see, the governments of Turkey are clearly obstructing the rights of their citizens of different culture, different languages and beliefs living in Turkey by withdrawing them into the contract. The statement and reservations that Turkey has placed in the Convention on Civil and Political Rights are not in line with the subject and purpose of the contract, is made clear in the summary of the Human Rights Committee meeting. The meeting text expressed satisfaction with the declarations that the Turkish delegation could be removed, but we all see that unlike the declarations from 2009 to today, there is no regulation in Turkey to lift this recession. Dear MPs, another example of Turkey's reservations on international contracts is the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The Economic, Social and Cultural Rights Committee proposed in its 2011 Result Observation of Turkey, offering Turkey to lift the recession on Article 13 of the contract, interpret and implement it in light of the committee's testimony. Let's read what Turkey has put down: 13- In this contract, states of the entity pledge to choose other schools outside of the public authorities of their own children or to respect the freedom to provide religious and moral education for their children in accordance with their own beliefs, in accordance with the standard of minimum education that has been established or approved by the state. Dear lawmakers, as we have seen, Turkey has clearly blocked parents' right to provide religious and moral education to their own children, according to their own beliefs. If we interpret this recession, the state is simply monopolizing children's education through its definition of religion and morality and prevents families of different beliefs from transferring their own beliefs to their children through education. Of course, the biggest victims of this in Turkey's population are our Alevi citizens. Even the legal status of our Alevi citizens' places of worship does not exist yet. It is not possible for our Alevi citizens to take a holiday in the holy days and holidays, both in school and in business. The state defines the Alevi in its own religion, without consulting the Alevis, and tries to mold the Alevis into this pattern. Of course, this attitude is contrary to the Convention on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights. Thus, when the withdrawal from this contract is lifted, our citizens of our country and of different faiths will be able to express themselves on the freer ground. Mr. President, again, the Children's Rights Committee recommends that Turkey withdraw the reservations that the Children's Rights Convention has placed on the 17th, 29th and 30th Articles. According to the committee's view, only this way children of different groups, especially Kurdish children, will be able to benefit from certain educational opportunities. Furthermore, the summary of the 5705th meeting of the Children's Rights Committee has highlighted the importance of removing the reservations in order to prevent discrimination by children of minority groups, especially Roma and Kurdish children. Dear lawmakers, see what the United Nations Convention on Child Rights says: "What is the 30th article that Turkey has imposed on its reservations??" "It cannot be deprived of its own culture, of its own religion, or of its own use of it in ethnic, religious, or linguistic minorities, or of its native populations in the states where there is such a minority or native people. Now I have to ask: why did Turkey put it on this clause when it hesitated? What's he aiming at by putting down hesitations and not lifting reservations? The government has to come out and explain it. Dear lawmakers, another international contract on Turkey's report card with negative points is the Convention on the Protection and Development of Cultural Statements. This contract was adopted in October 2005 at the UNESCO General Conference, and was adopted in March 2007. The contract was signed by Turkey, but it has not yet been approved. Turkey also signed this contract on the basis of the 7th Amendment. Article 7 of the contract states: 1. The parties are members and groups in their own country, (a) Creating, producing, spreading, disseminating, and accessing their own cultural expressions, by giving them the importance of special conditions and needs of various social groups, including members of women and minorities and indigenous peoples; (b) They will strive to create a climate that encourages access to various cultural expressions from both their own countries and other countries of the world. Yes, unfortunately, Turkey put it on this clause when it hesitated. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as we've seen, it's a traditional policy in Turkey to place them in international contracts when they're at almost all the minimum rights for different languages, beliefs, cultures. Turkey must exit this line, which violates human rights. In fact, as we all see, there are many issues in our country where our citizens live in gangrene, and we do not approve of some principles that have already been established in international contracts. Why does Turkey not approve of modern principles approved by advanced democracies? There's no reasonable explanation for this. When will Turkey be free of this disgrace of democracy? How long will Turkey be able to prevent education in the native language of its citizens? How long will Turkey be able to delay the problems of its fellow believers? Does that suit our age? When will Turkey stop preventing the development of different cultures in which its citizens live? You must answer these questions. In this context, the reservations placed on basic human rights documents must be removed immediately. This is the necessity of democracy; it is the necessity of universal law; it is the necessity of equal citizenship. Mr. President, in this context, we now see the reservations that Turkey has put in the contract in the draft draft of the European Convention on Restitution of Criminals. According to the first paragraph of Article 6 of the additional protocol, the Republic of Turkey does not accept the first chapter of the additional protocol. When we look at the article Turkey has put in it, it states that the crimes against humanity referred to in the Convention on the Protection and Punishment of Genocide, which the United Nations adopted in 1948, cannot be accepted as part of a political crime. Again, the other me of the same clause, the Geneva Convention, which was adopted in 1949, states that violations involving the protection of armed forces on the battlefield cannot be considered political crime. Turkey, however, has declared that it does not admit that these crimes are political. Mr. President, when we look at the basis of the bill, there is the same statement as: "The EC Protocol is prepared to strengthen the protection of individuals and humanity, and it is noted that the crimes committed against genocide and humanity are not seen as a political crime." Yes, that's exactly what the government wrote. However, it is tragic for the AKP government to put this situation in a position of praise at the end of the text. The government must explain the grounds for the withdrawal of these articles to parliament and the public. Dear lawmakers, yes, the sixth clause of the protocol states that the entity states do not have to accept, and Turkey has stated that it does not accept the first part of the protocol. However, there is a serious technical problem here. The article, which Turkey did not accept, was presented under the title when it was drawn in the text of approval. However, I'd like to point out that the provisions of this protocol can't be put at any time in the sixth draft of Article 6 of the protocol. In our opinion, there is a technical error here that needs to be corrected. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we can't ignore the basic values that have come out of the experience of centuries of international tragedy. As long as human rights are ignored, injustices, problems will continue. That means more pain, more blood. We can't destroy basic human rights by ignoring them. Equal citizenship is a requirement of the age, a requirement of humanity, and we end up saying that we are obliged to do what is necessary for mankind; again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0119par0156	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0120par0157	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit06spe0119par0158	I'll put it in your votes, and I'll look for enough to make a decision. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0119par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision to vote on the amendments of the Law Bill 294. Now, I'm going to re-offer the bill to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. We will resume negotiations with Bill 294 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0121par0006	Mr. President... Sir, there's a...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0119par0008	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0121par0011	Mr. President, our country has become increasingly polarized and tensions have escalated in society...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0119par0012	If you'd like, I'll give you my word for a minute.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0121par0013	No, I'd like to put it that way, sir. ...in an environment where polarization is increasing and Turkey's solutions are increasingly difficult...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0122par0015	We can't hear it! Mr. President, do not deprive us of those words!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0121par0016	...the founder's will of Turkey was attacked today by the Speaker of Parliament. Parliament Speaker Ismail Kahraman said the exact words at a conference where he attended today: "Ismail Kahraman should not once be in the new constitution... our constitution should not avoid the matter of the religious constitution." He has to speak religiously. He advocated the rule of secularism.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0123par0017	What's the big deal? Maybe, the thought.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0121par0018	We just got this news, we just got this news. I can hear the AKP Group saying, "What's wrong with that?"
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0124par0020	Freedom of opinion, freedom of opinion!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0121par0021	Dear President, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who founded the Republic of Turkey, has determined secularism as the first element of the Republic of Turkey as the founding will. Just a few days before we celebrated the 96th year of the establishment of the House, it is the unconditional nation that says, "The Lordship is the one that gives us this Parliament... and I strongly condemn and condemn these words of the Speaker of Parliament for the principle of secularism that he has received from this Parliament. The Speaker, with an understanding not only speaking a personal word but ignoring the founding will, has brought down our Assembly, our Constitution, with the words of a Parliamentary Speaker, which can be described almost as a coup.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0124par0022	That founding will is in the Constitution of 1921 and 1924!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0121par0023	We cannot accept such a painting as the Republican People's Party. We strongly condemn the words of this Speaker, but it is not enough to condemn it. Yes, we agree with those words. What should we do with the AKP Group?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0125par0024	Who said we agree? Who said that?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0124par0025	Freedom of opinion!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0121par0026	What do we do with them? What are we gonna do?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0126par0028	Can't he explain his personal opinion? Explains your personal opinion. Why are you putting the embargo on?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0121par0029	Mr. President, this problem is serious. Even if the Speaker himself said so, as his corporate identity now represents all of us, he should be kept and kept under those promises. A Parliamentary Speaker like this can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't,
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0127par0030	You do it, you do it! You'll do it!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0121par0031	Our House doesn't deserve such a painting, Turkey doesn't. There's no reason for the Speaker to sabotage Turkey with his words while you're doing a good deed there, while we're doing a study here. We can't accept a painting like that.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0128par0032	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0121par0033	The Speaker must resign immediately! Turkey cannot carry such a Parliament Speaker, it cannot carry such a Parliamentary Speaker. Mr. President, the problem we're facing right now is that it's outside of the constitutional framework we're meeting here, but it's a position that connects us all.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0129par0035	That's a firm word, Mr. President. Everyone should have the freedom to say everything.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0121par0036	There's no freedom for the President of the House on a painting like this. He is the president of a Parliament, which says, "The government is a unconditional nation." He is a president who went there two days ago to pay tribute to the spiritual presence of Ataturk.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0130par0037	Do you have that kind of language?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0121par0038	How quickly did he chew them; how dare he, how dare he?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0131par0040	Mr. Sky, I've listened to you. It's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0121par0041	Mr. President, this has been passed on to the authorities. This is not an expression to be explained with.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0132par0043	What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0131par0044	Dear Sky... Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0133par0046	Our House cannot accept such a painting. In the face of a painting like this, we should make a joint statement to the Speaker, a joint statement.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0131par0048	Mr. Gök, at this moment, of course, I strongly urge you to use a more gentle language regarding the President of Parliament, who has been elected to this office with the valuable votes of these MPs.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0133par0049	Mr. President, what else did I say? I'm asking you to resign.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0131par0050	We don't know what that expression is.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0133par0051	I'm asking you to resign.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0131par0052	Mr. Speaker himself has already made the necessary statement at this point, and he does.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0133par0053	All the agencies are reporting it right now, and we just saw it. I share it with our House.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0134par0054	We haven't seen it yet.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0131par0055	Dear Sky, yes...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0133par0056	I don't know if you guys feel the same way.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0135par0057	How do you know he said that? You're on the news.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0131par0058	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0133par0059	Mr. President, this is not acceptable.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0136par0060	Yeah, got it. Okay, okay.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0137par0061	He'll explain himself.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0133par0062	That's no side the AKP Group will take lightly.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0138par0063	This is no place to show off.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0139par0064	Mr. Sky, I've listened to you, and now Mr. Bostanci wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0140par0067	Mr. President, we don't know what the Speaker said or in what context.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0141par0068	Here.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0140par0069	Mr. Levent Gök has brought this up. Mr. President, I think he's going to make an assessment of his own words about this.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0141par0070	What do you think?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0140par0071	The AK PARTY group has no problem with secularism; that's one. I agree with MYK, the AK PARTY is also drafting a constitution, and when drafting a constitution, we have no such agenda. Therefore, there is no discussion in the framework expressed by Mr. Sky of secularism on the agenda of the EC PARTY group, and that is the issue.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0142par0074	Don't blame the group.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0143par0075	Mr. President, I say I welcome the words of Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0144par0076	Okay, what are we gonna do?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0143par0077	But don't let anyone assume that I didn't hear those words when I was talking, that we're not children here. Thank you for showing such sensitivity to him, but please let everyone read these statements of the Speaker and set his position accordingly. That's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0144par0079	What are we gonna do?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0143par0080	We'll do what we have to do together.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0145par0081	Yes, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0146par0082	That guy said his idea, what's the big deal?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0143par0083	Look, you're still saying what, Metiner. He's the Speaker; is it that simple?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0147par0084	He took an oath, swore to keep that principle.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0146par0085	We're in favor of democratic secularism. Besides, he's given his opinion, there's no need to be so condescending.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0143par0086	Is it up to the king now? He's the Speaker.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0146par0087	No need, what's wrong with that? You don't want him to have any ideas? And you're talking about freedom of speech.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0148par0091	Now, I'm going to read the first article of the bill: THE PROTOCOLM TO THE ACTIVITY OF THE CRIMINALS IS CONTINUES THAT THE EK PROTOCOLOGY BECOMPLICATED The European Convention on Restitution of Criminals, signed on 22 March 2016 on behalf of the Republic of Turkey, was approved by the withdrawal and declaration of additional Protocol. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken is the first to speak on behalf of the groups on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0149par0097	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I made a pledge to the European Convention on Restitution of Criminals No. 294 that the Approval of Addictive Protocol Is Compromised. First of all, the European Union or European institutions also care about the application of every legal arrangement that passes through here. In many cases, we have repeatedly explained from this platform how much the implementation of the AKP's government on freedom of speech, freedom of press, organizational freedom is compatible with the EU criteria, or how much the regulations of the European Court for Human Rights, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations, have come to life. Now, today's arrangement envisions an acceptance and approval of extradition of criminals. However, the recent report report on the extradition of the AKP government is so corrupt that no matter what legal regulations you bring in on this issue, you will not be able to convince the European Union or avoid the crimes you have committed so far. All of this is also closely related to Syrian and Middle Eastern policy. As a result of a series of dirty relations with the gang structures there, especially ISIS, there is an immediate debate that when a bomb goes off anywhere in the world today, the bomb goes off, the bomb goes through Turkey, using these borders, because, as I said, the relationships you've developed are already putting you in the middle of this discussion. See, recently, in July 2015, a police operation was carried out in Ankara, and six Rojava citizens who arrived in Turkey with an AFAD ID card were taken into custody and then some legal processes, court processes were conducted. Notice that these people had an AFAD ID card in their pocket, so they made a commitment to the authorities in the AKP government or the AFAD institution Rojava. If they came to Turkey, we would treat them and send them back to their homeland after that. However, six Rojava citizens detained after the operation were acquitted from the court process where they were taken into custody, so it was stated that they had no crimes, that the detention process was unfair, illegal, and therefore no grounds for their arrest. Now, it is expected that you will send these six Rojava citizens back to their territory, back to their borders, where you have agreed and committed to this land for treatment. Instead of sending these people to their borders, sending them to their relatives, however, the AKP handed over the Cilveg-Eye, which was controlled by Ahrar al-Sham and El Nusra. So, six Rojava citizens were taken into custody on stretchers; they were subjected to severe insults, severe tortures while in custody; they were handed over to gang structures in Syria, Rojava, where they fought in Syria, where they were being sent to die after being acquitted. At that time, we made initiatives with both the government and the state. But they disbelieved and said, "This is not happening." Because, according to the universal agreements of the United Nations, according to the Geneva Convention, which Turkey signed in 1949, it is a war crime and a crime against humanity that will lead a country to The Hague, where it will lead to trial. However, the authorities who denied it promised us that when they looked into it later, it really happened that way, and that these 6 Rojava citizens were in the hands of these gangs, and that they would step in to take it away from them. However, after months, despite these commitments and commitments, these Rojava citizens were not taken away from those gangs, and by the AKP's hand, Turkey publicly signed a war crimes charge. Now, of course, we can give countless examples of that. But rather than extradition, it is necessary to express the tradition of making criminals a subject of exchange negotiations as a tradition that AKP is more accustomed to. After the raid on the consulate of Mosul -- if you remember -- 49 of our citizens were taken hostage at that time, and after some secret negotiations with ISIS at that time, the situation of being a hundred and one-day hostage was eliminated, and our citizens returned to their families, their homes, their lands. Of course, it's a pleasure to have them back, but no public statements have been made to satisfy the public so far, despite the public and public debate of the world's public opinion of what dirty negotiations were made at that time with a gang organisation such as ISIS. If you remember then, President Erdogan said that there were some negotiations with ISIS, and that even if there was a trade, it should be considered a success. In exchange for 49 citizens, some supporters of the government stated that nearly 50 ISIS members -- in which they had stated that there were top executives -- were handed over to ISIS, and a trade was made with ISIS. Now, when you have a report card like this, you have all sorts of dark relationships that shouldn't be with gangs like this, and you have no credibility when you make any sort of arrangement for extradition of criminals here. You can't assume that the European Union doesn't know these processes either. So all of these processes, in case of files, are being closely monitored by the international public. Perhaps you need to know that today, because of the hot developments in the region in the Middle East, these files are not on the agenda, they are not in front of you, but all the files prepared for recent negotiations will be brought before you. Look, I'd like to put a finger on a wound that bleeds about extradition of criminals, especially from here: this is inhumane practices in the recycling centers. The last time Erzurum was in the send-back center of Ashkale, where Dilo Dervis, a citizen named Dilo Dervis, was murdered, and I quote, "The humanitarian drama of these resuscitation centers was also on the agenda." Dilo Dervis committed suicide on a six - foot [3 m] bunk bed at the sendback center in Ashkale. The cause of death was shown to the public in the form of a rope he had prepared. But when we sent our lawmakers, human rights advocates, his family, to that send-back center at that time, unfortunately, they were not allowed to do any research in that area, and Dilo Dervis' autopsy report hid from all public record. We're talking about an approach where a 6'2" tall person commits suicide by hanging himself from a six-foot-long bunk, which is crazy enough to express to the public that he's actually dehumanized. Thus, such processes occur almost all the way through the send-back centers. So, instead of being sent back to places, to their own lands, to their own families, they're either being executed at these send-back centers, or if they've been able to save their lives out there, the process of handing them over to the gangs they're fighting outside the border is being developed by the AKP. Therefore, with your files piling up in international law enforcement every day, it is in no way believable that you would agree under an arrangement for extradition of criminals here. And in terms of the EU criteria, I'm saying that these kind of palliative solutions can't be handled in any way. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0150par0109	Thank you. The second word on behalf of the groups is for the Republican People's Party Group, Republican MP Haluk Pekşen. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0151par0113	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, it's not easy to predict Turkey's agenda, especially with AKP power. Especially when they're cornered like this, they're sure to find an absurd agenda. This is a method that is now known to every part of society, every part of the public. You see, suddenly, the Constitutional Amendment comes up, we use it for a week, it ends up like a pop song; the new agenda has immunity; it lasts a week, so it ends; this time let's be judged, let's not be judged. But this Parliament, unfortunately, has not been able to match the agenda of Parliament with the public agenda or the agenda of Justice and Development Party (AKP). But today, I assure you, this Speaker's efforts to set an agenda will be in vain. You know why? Zencani sends his regards. (HPP) You know, there's a Zencani in Iran who's under arrest, and he says, "Yeah, I'm getting a huge injustice in this Turkey." These aren't the three ministers, there's someone else, there's others. In fact, there's a minister outside of them. Aman, don't confuse them, they're not the famous 17-25. I told a minister outside of them my money in that public bank, he didn't believe it; he immediately called the public bank, and when he heard the answer he received from the public bank, his eyes opened like a fortune. He says, "My old friend, I am inside, say hello to him." He says, "Say hello to him. You understand. For a week, that Zencani file will be here. I assure you, even you will never be able to stand behind those friends. Some of them are here now, here among you, and they are among you. They know exactly who they are. Both Turkey and Europe will watch Zencani carefully; that's all for now. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Last night, something very interesting happened. A football match at Tripoli was interrupted with great misfortune. The fact that the game was interrupted really upset us and the Tripolians. But the truth is, when you came to power, Father Santorini was killed in Tripoli, and you were in power, and you didn't find out who was behind it, but we Tripolians paid the bill.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0152par0117	Found, found.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0151par0118	A short time passed, this time you killed Hrant Dink, under the supervision of government officials in your power, but again the Tripolians paid the bill. It wasn't over, but another college professor, innocently murdered in the care of your power on his way home with his three-year-old, but again, the Tripolians paid the bill. Is it over? It's not over, let's go on. In your time of power, Tripoli, not only has the entire Black Sea migrated, damn it. They said, "They've left those provinces, 400,000 people have passed away from Tripoli, but you've made Tripoli pay the bill again.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0153par0119	How's 5, 5?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0151par0120	In 2007, you laid the foundation of a football stadium to finish in two years, and in those two years, a lot of years have passed, and you've still messed up that stadium. Look, I'm telling Bilal like I'm telling him, even you can understand.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0153par0122	Well, well, well, well!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0151par0123	Look, I'm telling Bilal like I'm telling him, and if you still don't get it, I'll tell you at a lower pace.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0153par0125	How's 5, 5? You're gonna get out of there, too. That's six, six!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0151par0126	Yeah, they confiscated it...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0154par0127	Mr. Peksen, Mr. Peksen, just a minute...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0151par0128	Look, you have seized the land of the Black Seas, father, father, father, grandfather.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0155par0129	Mr. President, he's dealing with the person, don't let him mess with the person!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0151par0130	You took away their property, their land on the deed, but the Black Seas paid the bill again.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0155par0131	Mr. President, he's dealing with character, you can't let him!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0156par0132	Mr. Peksen... one moment, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0151par0133	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0155par0134	He needs to get his statement back, you can't let him.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0156par0135	Mr. Pekşen, now, both the Supreme Court's provisions, 66 and more...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0151par0136	Yeah, yeah...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0156par0137	...and the following day, according to the statement of agreement with the members of the group, the speakers must remain on the subject of the meeting, and the deputy speaker will warn them of that.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0151par0138	Let's get right to it. Let's get right to it.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0156par0139	And from now on, look...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0157par0140	Mr. President, he needs to take that back!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0156par0141	...please don't bother with the character, stick to the subject. Please...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0158par0142	Let's get right to it.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0156par0143	Please... think very carefully about where you're going. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0159par0145	It gives you the right to answer for those who aren't here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0160par0146	I know exactly where my words are going.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0159par0147	He has the right to answer to names that aren't here.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0160par0148	Mr. President, will you shut him up?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0159par0149	He needs to take back the insult, you can't let him.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0161par0150	Mr. Fatih, please come in. Here you go...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0159par0152	He can't talk to that language here.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0162par0153	Please keep the peace.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0161par0154	Mr. Fatih, come in. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0163par0156	He can't use those statements about our President's family here, we can't allow that. He needs to take back those words, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0164par0157	Mr. President, please keep quiet, our speaker can't speak.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0161par0158	Mr. Hawk, have a seat. Mr. Peksen, please tell me that you're willing to take the liberty of picking on people...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0164par0160	Why are they being taken?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0165par0161	I'm not targeting anyone, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0161par0162	Or people who aren't here, or people who aren't.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0166par0163	What kind of language is that?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0167par0164	Mr. President, please remain calm.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0166par0165	What kind of language is that?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0168par0166	Mr. Sky, there's no such thing as style.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0169par0167	Your loss will be six, six!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0166par0168	He's got to get it back!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0168par0169	Mr. Hawk, please come in the same way.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0166par0170	You can't talk to the President's family in any way without insulting them!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0168par0171	Mr. Peksen, pick up where you left off, stay on topic. I invite you to the subject. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0170par0173	Sir, have your friends sit down.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0171par0174	No, he won't come to the point, he'll apologize first, he'll apologize!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0170par0175	Put them back in their seats.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0172par0176	Mr. President, I...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0171par0177	Mr. President, he's going to apologize!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0172par0178	I have nothing to wish for here. I'm from Silivri, I'm from Silivri, I'm from Silivri.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0171par0179	Mr. President will apologize.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0172par0180	I didn't bend my neck, and I wouldn't bend my neck here.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0171par0181	Mr. President, we can't tolerate this!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0173par0182	Mr. President, keep the peace, keep the peace!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0172par0183	No one in this country can shut us up. What's this?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0174par0185	Mr. Hawk, please...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0175par0186	We can't let that happen here!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0176par0187	Know your place, your place!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0177par0188	Everyone will know, everyone will know!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0178par0189	Mr. President, please keep the peace here.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0176par0190	Know your place, your place!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0177par0191	Everyone will know, everyone, everyone will know, everyone!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0178par0192	Keep the peace here, please. This isn't right!
tbmm-2016-04-25sit07spe0179par0194	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0179par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue our discussion of Bill 294 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Members of parliament, there has been a general warning from this bench several times before, and I would like to bring this to the attention of all lawmakers in particular: Even though the executive provisions of our Interior Charter are required, and the members of the group, and the members of the Parliament, are also present at the chairmanship of our Parliament, in accordance with the agreement that a clean language should be used and not be used in the general assembly of the Interior Charter. Again, Article 65 of the Civil Code is forbidden to interrupt the General Assembly, deal with the individual, and commit disorderly acts. I specifically urge all of our MPs not to get out of the subject, not to engage in a clean language, not to engage in character, and to be given maximum sensitivity to the ability to keep the witness from being interrupted again. On this occasion, I would like to ask all of our MPs to pay attention to these warnings, whether in accordance with the rules of power, opposition, every speaker, even within the scope of maximum courtesy, and I would like to thank you now for your sensitivity. Just now, before the break, Mr. Haluk Pekşen's speech continued. I'm guessing he had four and a half minutes left. I'm Mr. Pekshene...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0180par0006	We want to use it here.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0179par0007	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0181par0009	Mr. President, honorable MPs, I'm an opposition MP. My duty, in the name of the opposition, in the name of our nation, is to bring sensitivity to the agenda of Parliament and to discuss it here. Of course, critical criticism is at the top of my most important duties. There's no way in hell I'm going to accuse anyone, put them under suspicion. In my profession, in my profession, I also spoke on the stand for nearly thirty years. I've never acted in my career or in my life, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in my life, that would ever suspect anyone, in any way, in anyone's personal rights, freedoms, fundamental values. It's important that the esteemed lawmakers here evaluate this sensitivity.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0182par0010	You said there's one in this room. But look, there's one in this room. You said there's one in this room. They know. You said, let him answer...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0181par0011	Our main emphasis here is to remind you of the basic needs of international law. With that respect, there's nothing I can say about the members of the lawmakers here in this courtroom, an accusation, a claim, anything I can say to tie them up. The purpose of this matter has been specific. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0183par0013	That's not the point, that's not the point.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0184par0014	It's in you. You said it was in you.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0183par0015	You can't speak to the President's son and the MPs here in a derogatory, incriminating sentence.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0185par0016	Congressmans, talks on Article 1 have been completed.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0186par0017	He didn't apologize to our president. He's going to apologize to our president's family.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0183par0018	No, let him apologize. Make him apologize, he's not meant to.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0185par0019	I submit the item to your votes: those who accept the clause...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0183par0020	No, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0185par0021	Those who don't accept... Article 1 is accepted.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0183par0023	No, Mr. President, this is not a model.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0187par0024	His apology is bigger than his fault.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0185par0025	I'm going to read Article 2: MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the People's Democratic Party demanding a speech on the matter, it is "Siirt Millekilli Cadri Yıldırım." Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0188par0030	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The most common concepts come with terms such as "son," "criminal," "retrial," "responsive," "right," "judgment." I would like to present a few anecdotes about the attitude given to the children by the Holy Prophet (SAW) regarding the names of the children and the names of the peacemakers. The origin of Islam, as it is known, is the root of peace. In this context, the 208th verse of the House of Bakara states: "In the name of God, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful... [[The reading of Baccara Surah by the preacher]] So, O believers, take your place in total peace. In this context, the Holy Prophet -- who is the greatest explanation of the Qur'an -- changed the name of the children given to them by their families by the name of "War" to "Peace." According to Abu David, one of the writers of the Cub-u Sitte, the Holy Prophet, the name of his child, whose name was,, has been changed by the name of, peace. Again, according to a rumor by Imam Malik, the Prophet of the Holy Prophet calls on a Muslim court who passes by soon to help him nurse his camel, while waiting for a man who can't afford to milk his camel one day -- because he can't do so alone. Just as the person in question is about to put his hand on the camel's breast, the Prophet of God says, "What is your name?" He is also... (x). My name means "War." When I say "War," the Prophet commands me to immediately let go of the camel's teat, and I say, "Go, go, good luck." he says. After a while, another person comes, but you have to help me to heal the camel. Before you say, what's your name? He says my name is Yaish. ==Early life==Arabic is an Arabic word, meaning "Yahya" in Arabic, and in Turkish its equivalent is "Yarr" in Turkish. So the thing that we're interested in here is that the Prophet did not tolerate the name of the War, which is given to children, nor did he approve of milking his camel, which is called the Harp, which is called the War. Instead, a philosophy called Yaish, which is alive, prefers to live by its name. It is evident that even when children are named by their families, according to Islamic morality, and according to Islamic philosophy and understanding, they should not be given either the name of the war, or any other name that might refer to the name of the war. Instead, the name of peace should be preferred or given to children by other families, who may refer to peace. This actually appears to be a small detail, but one of the rights of the child, the parent or the family in Islam has to be given a proper name, which, if you think about it, is clearly not a detail to be considered at all. That's why we should always choose for our children, in the unit where we are local, in the country, in the region, and in the general sense that we live, in the world, the ones that will exclude the war as much as possible in the universe, the ones that will keep the war away from us, the ones that will always remind us of peace, the ones that will always bring peace to peace. Thus, Islam, which was derived from the origin of peace, as we call it, was not satisfied with its own origin, but also recommended that the names given to the children be given to them again, even ordered them, and did so, as the Prophet of God did. In response, look, if you put war and peace aside literally, he has changed the specific names that express harshness again to special names that express softness. For example, in Arabic, a courtbe has changed the word "saab" given to him by his family -- the word "saab" in Arabic, meaning "e." It's the name of the city. The meaning of "Sehl" means "soft" and "soft" and "simple." So it must be understood that the names given to children must be given in accordance with the understanding intended to dominate a society. Today, one of the things that we need most in the world and in our region is peace; along with peace is brotherhood; the equality should be remembered along with brotherhood. With these wishes, we believe that the CHP and the CHP, which are in the position of responsibility of the government and its responsibility, must surely do something about it, before I end all of this with a desire to dominate both the world and our region one day.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0189par0041	We're doing it, Hajji.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0188par0042	Oh, what's to be done? What is to be done is to make sure that this war, which is not even tolerated by its name, is, in some way, to be removed from our agenda, the agenda of our country, the agenda of our territory, and instead, to work for the peace that Islam desires, which humanity requires, and all the people who respect the universal values, the peace that every part of it desires, the peace, the peace that is put into place. If he does not do so, he will be crushed by the necessary responsibility of society and the people in this world, and he will suffer the frustration of it in the afterlife, and his spiritual responsibility will not be overcome. In this regard, I salute our country, the world, and our region with respect to the High Assembly and our people, hoping that peace, instead of war, will prevail.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0190par0045	I submit the 2nd article to your votes:
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0191par0046	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0190par0047	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who accept the matter... those who refuse... We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Matter accepted, there's enough to decide. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Diyarbakır MP İdris Bauken will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on Article 3. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0192par0058	Thank you. Mr. President, I've taken a pledge on the 3rd Amendment of Law Bill 294. I salute you all once again. From the beginning, we've been warning here about the major changes in the process of the European Union and visa exemption. We all accept this by giving it to all of us: there is no way that we can make any claim about the definition of citizenship in this country, about basic rights and freedoms, about freedom of faith, the removal of barriers in front of the mother tongue, and the management models, without some basic regulations regarding administrative reform that put authority in place, without us having to meet the standards of the European Union or to make any claim about them. So rather than the technical arrangements that have been brought in, we need a lot of radical changes in the topics I'm talking about, and we need a civil liberal democratic constitution as well. Now, look, the CHP has just made a speech here about what the deputy chairman of the group has said about secularism. Any congressman can express his views on this issue, it is a right to freedom of opinion and expression, and there is nothing more natural than the right of a congressman to exercise his rights, but a Speaker does not have the right to go out and make such irresponsible statements about the will of this Assembly, especially the will of the entire 78 million. Yes, there has never been a real secularism in Turkey, so secularism in Turkey has been brought to this day for almost 90 years, rather than secularism. This dogmatic structure has dominated the religious state, presented it to the services of the religious state, and in this regard, it has removed secularism from the context, which is actually the main purpose of secularism. Most of the time, it was used as a stick as an instrument of social discipline. So from the establishment of many MPs and republics filling the ranks of the ruling party today, conservative, conservative, has been a great pressure on the belief world of the factions. That attitude is not secularism. We therefore believe that Turkey must overcome this dogmatic secularism and establish a liberal secularism in the new constitution. Look, there's been a state religion for 90 years. I mean, a holy state religion was created that took the Turkish Sunni and Hanefi sect to the center of the Hanefi sect, but was actually far from the roots of the Sunni and Hanefi sect, and according to that sacred state religion, the whole world of faith, the whole world of religion, was tried to be subjugated. Only problems related to the Aflammatory or Shia or other religious and religious beliefs did not occur in this land. In addition to the other sects of circumcision, a compelling ceberut state concept was tried to live through this dogmatic secularism. For example, as a Shafii Kurd, 95 percent of my hometown of Shafii have never had the freedom to worship within the boundaries of that province according to the laws of my religion, even though they have performed their meetings according to the Shafii sect. It's about other sects again, so I guess we don't have to talk about it here for long. So the approach of this government religion, this dogmatic secularism, has been there for 90 years. We still think it's enough to explain the fact that there's still no status in the mosques, that there's no recognition of the status of the temple, that the government institutions of the Alekis still have to go beyond their own limits about what kind of belief should be, that we've been involved in this. Of course, none of our fellow Christians, Jews, Ezidi, who are members of other religions other than Islam, can possibly claim that our citizens have lived as freely as possible in freedom of faith as possible. In the liberal secularism that we stand for, the state has to be neutral in the activities of citizens or communities about religion or organizational work, it has no right to meddle. In this neutral position, it can only be in the position of providing resources, providing support by fulfilling the needs of those communities or individuals' religious or religious beliefs. Beyond that, the approaches -- as I said -- can't go beyond a 90-year-old concept of dogmatic secularism, which we can't do without getting past. So in the five topics I'm talking about, it can be very detailed in each topic, but we have to accept that especially in terms of democracy, human rights, peace and the legal state, we have been very far behind the criteria of the European Union, and especially in the last five or six years of AKP power. If we need to separate the AKP from 2002 to 2010 in some way between 2010 and 2016, it's enough to take a look at the latest EU progress report at the point where we're being thrown around in terms of thought, expression, freedom of organization, freedom of press, free media, judicial independence. So the latest progress report, which was released just a few weeks ago, has clearly drawn a picture in Turkey that the media is not independent, that the judiciary is not independent, that Turkey is as far away from the rule of law as it can get from the rule of law, that concerns about the separation of forces have reached a major stage of human rights and rights and freedoms that are going back every day. Again, the European Union progress report on the war process inside called for a clear return to the negotiating table and a process of solutions. Now, you're not going to meet the requirements of any of these issues, you're not going to make any progress based on the basic arrangement of this issue, you're not going to have any concern about peace, you're not going to contribute anything to the real solution to the refugee problem that your policies have uncovered in Syria and the Middle East, you're going to use refugees wherever you go as a threat card against the European Union, and then you're going to use them as a technical set of laws that you've brought here by May 1st, and you're going to make these improvements on the European Union. It's impossible for us to believe it or the world to believe it. What needs to be done is to make bold, radical reforms in fundamental matters, and to quickly secure the position of a country that is at the center of peaceful, diplomatic efforts, which has quickly achieved inner peace and is heard in the chaos and war processes of the Middle East outside. I respectfully salute the General Assembly, asking for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0193par0070	We haven't voted yet, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0194par0071	I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0192par0072	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0194par0073	I'll call the number of decisions I need.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0195par0074	He didn't want enough decisions in time, he wanted them early.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0196par0075	He didn't ask for a vote, sir, it's invalid.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0194par0076	Yes, there's enough to decide, matter accepted. Thus, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0197par0078	No.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0194par0079	And now we're going to do electronics, Mr. Baluken. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the clear vote of the Dair Law Charter, as a result of ratification of additional protocol for the European Convention on Restitution of Criminals: ▪ Number of votes used: 201 [[x]] Özcan Purçu Elif Doğan Türkmen So, the bill is legalized. Good luck with that. Now, we'll begin negotiations with Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which are ranked number four, and will be held in accordance with the European Convention on Reciprocal Legal Aid. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 295 rows. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Şanlıurfa MP Osman Baydemir will speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0198par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, once again, let's start by asking ourselves this question later in the night: does the government and government perspective, which governs Turkey and Turkey, really want Turkey's integration into the European Union, or not? And is Turkey really meant to say that all of its experiences and experiences in geography and geography, where it is a member, are they destined to surrender to negativism, or will it seek a way out of this vortex and reveal its sincere effort? If this shift is being held in Parliament in an effort to make use of the refugee issue through a real negotiation, in an effort to bring visa exemption, you can be sure that a few international contracts -- which is a good thing -- will also be passed through the Parliament. But the main goal, the range, Turkey's integration into the European Union, this incomplete perspective, this wrong perspective, the perspective of taking advantage of this opportunity, will not lead us to the final conclusion. The bottom line is that the government has to give up on the fundamental values that make the European Union a deterrent from the European Union because it seems that the European Union will not give up on the fundamental values that make the European Union the founding will of the European Union and its executive will so far. If this society wants to harmonise its basic design with the European Union, then let's take a look at a few criteria together. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, honorable lawmakers, let's review some data on democracy, freedom, rule of law and quality of life together. In 165 countries, Turkey is ranked number 84, in the Freedom of Press Index 142, in the Corruption Perception Index of 168 countries, and again, in the Supremeity of Law is ranked among the 102 countries, among the 20 countries that are the worst in judicial independence. Now, I'd like to ask both the Minister and all the respected MPs: What country is the member of the European Union in line with these indexes? Here, you have to face the truth. The main duty of the opposition, the main opposition, the middle opposition, the young opposition, all opposition, is to put a mirror in the government's face. Now, what we're trying to do here today is to put a mirror in the government's face, Mr. Secretary, if the government really has the courage to see itself in the mirror. Now, if that's the painting, if that's the reality, how do we get out of this painting and out of this reality? Once again, through the history of the Republic, this country has had two great opportunities, gold value, jewel value, priceless opportunity, Mr. President. One of these: on the morning of June 7th, Turkey was the Parliament of which all its differences had created, of its own free will and free will, and that Parliament could take over the office of the founding will parliament. And let Turkey enter this vortex today, in terms of the European Union's mechanism for solving problems in all Middle Eastern negotiations, the model country for solving problems, buy you Turkey; take it with Kurdish, Turkish, Alevi, religious, religious, believer, Christian, and we would offer you a model country as a whole. I'm very clear about this opportunity -- with greed, this opportunity, zinhar from the chair of power, has been kicked, never, to the floor, by the delusion that it can't be, has been eliminated. And unfortunately, we're witnessing a government effort to deepen this vortex that we're living in right now. The second great opportunity, the second historic opportunity, which is to say, at every opportunity, I don't mind saying it again here today: the greatest political development in the solution of the Kurdish problem is the declaration of 2013 Nevroz, which we call the process of the solution. There are two main actors, two main roles: one is the role of Mr. Ocalan, and the other is the role of Mr. Erdoğan. But unfortunately...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0199par0106	What was it called in that declaration, there were four clauses, what was it? Say it! What was the end?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0198par0107	I'm afraid this opportunity...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0199par0108	Tell me, what was in the declaration?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0198par0109	... Within two and a half years of time...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0199par0110	I'll tell you what: you will lay down your weapons. Our common ground is Islam.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0198par0111	... Left to drag, prodded, spoken, discussed, but...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0199par0112	This problem will be resolved from the perspective of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0198par0113	... No step was taken, it was turned upside down, and thus lost two great opportunities, two great possibilities, 78 million people in this country together. What's the axis built on? If the axis really were built on Turkey's European integration, the June 7th election results would not have been wasted, nor would the solution itself have been wasted.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0199par0115	Tell me the 2013 declaration.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0198par0116	Axis recording, axis recording in this country. Political power, in my opinion, has changed course, because it has not internalized democratic culture.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0199par0117	Tell me what was said in the 2013 declaration.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0198par0118	The Shanghay Five said, I don't know what he said, but eventually he turned around and turned into a part of Suud, Qatar, El Nusra, Al Qaeda evil. My dear brothers, if this were a solution, do you know what is the greatest factor of the Medine Convention that has ever broken through Middle Eastern geography and transformed it into a geography that today's imperials are constantly scratching? It's a cult fight, a cult fight. And today, this cult quarrel has been injected into Turkey's most capillaries. In this sense, society has a great deal of anxiety, a great deal of anxiety, and it lives on. Therefore, the loss of these two great opportunities, the loss of which each of us should be assured that each of us is worth as much as we regret. Look, where did this atmosphere get us? Two days ago -- sports is peace, sports is brotherhood, isn't sports tolerance, sports is diversity -- it's a fan fight in Ankara where Amedspor was exposed; it's a lack of courtesy. We can't say and throw it away. The last year -- I'm clear -- Kurdish hostility, insistence on war, resistance to conflict, and without a doubt the loss of all lives that this has created, and the imposition of all these loss of life, of lawlessness, of mass communication devices, that's where it leads us. I was mayor of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality for ten years, and it was then Amedspor Club Metropolitan Municipality. Every team that comes to Diyarbakır, no matter who it is, has been welcomed, received with flowers, held in high esteem, in accordance with the culture we belong to. This team itself was greeted like this in Diyarbakir again a week, ten days, a month ago, but come to know that fascism and racism are such a disease that the club's rulers are subjected to lynching. Here we see another version of the society of war. It's not much, but a few months from now, in society, it's going to be able to live with the neighboring neighbor because there's death, because people are falling to the ground, because this media language, this political mind, it's growing bigger than that, it's campaigning for a bigger vote than that. A short-term, very short-term referendum, for example, is expected to be held in November, with a number of votes, with this policy and this mentality, but I assure you, the foundation itself is shaken, shaken. It's not much, even if a few months from now you're asked to return, this opportunity may not get caught, it may not get caught. Now, once again, back to the main theme, in the discussion we had here today under normal circumstances, either the Foreign Minister -- Mr. Minister -- or the Minister in charge of the EU -- was expected to contribute to these discussions in the Cabinet. But unfortunately, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is here today, and they are on behalf of the government in the Parliament where these international contracts have been discussed. Mr. Secretary, hopefully, the government's perspective on these contracts and its perspective on how to implement these contracts, its policy, its policy, its policy, is not like the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism's environmental policies. If it resembles environmental policies, urbanism policies, then woe to the spirit of international contracts! I already -- according to me -- I don't think reading the spirit of these international contracts is even work. Now, it started at a point where the government, in fact, we don't have to say it, and I think he and you need to question it in your own inner world. They started with a policy called zero problem. In the Middle East, and even with some countries, visas were denied. What happened, or what didn't happen, that there's hardly a single friend left in the world today? What happened or what didn't happen, and what didn't, and today we're living this reality? I'm just saying the trick, the bottom line, from here on out, from here on out. You just said, what was in the 2013 Neurosis declaration? The Turkish and Kurdish people, the people of Turkey, had a historic, eternal, eternal, 1,000-year-old call for an alliance, a call for an alliance. Come on, let's ally with each other, and without this vortex, without being affected, there was a call to the Middle East geography, to peace, to life together, together, together, not just us, but together, to build together.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0200par0126	Unarmed.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0198par0127	That call didn't respond. This call was nullified.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0201par0128	You didn't put the gun down.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0200par0129	You didn't put the gun down.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0198par0130	By God, you know better than I do that guns were only a matter of time away from the agenda, from life forever.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0200par0131	Ditches in front of houses.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0198par0132	But what happened? Because if those weapons were off the agenda, there wouldn't be 317 MPs today; there wouldn't be a government AKP today; there would be a coalition government.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0202par0133	Who started the protests?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0198par0134	So, without the coalition government, all this blood, all this tears, all this government alone, that's the price.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0202par0135	Didn't the PKK start its actions?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0198par0136	It's not a matter of self-defense, it's not a matter of state defense, but it's come to a point where, unfortunately, everything's been turned upside down. Look, the opposition is rising, taking the right to criticism. Criticism is a control mechanism in democracies and criticism, and even if it's shocking, the director has to endure it as a virtue and a necessity. Mr. President, I won't take too long, I'll only take 20 minutes of my say-so, I won't extend it, I won't take too much of your time.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0203par0139	Critics have their ways, they have their thing.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0204par0140	Don't take all the time you need.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0198par0141	Now, this control mechanism is not responding to one single question motion. To date, no effort from the opposition has been accepted in the Council's research motions, another control mechanism, except for one. So, when all these applications happen, doesn't the Venice Commission, Karma Parliamentary Assembly, the European Union Parliament, prepare or observe reports? A country where we're going to be involved with 78 million people, a community... isn't it going to look at the democratic standard of the next population, the standard of living, the culture, the culture of politics? Here, in a few months, the report will be filed again, and in those reports, all violations from the practice, all violations from the war, all violations from the environment of conflict, neglects will be filed again. What's it gonna be? Mr. President will say: "O U.S.A., O.B., O.K. Piri, I don't know your report, I'm sending your report back." Well, is that the solution? Well, that's not the answer. Does this bring the solution? I'm sure it won't. What does that do? This deepens the inefficiency. It also drives us away.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0205par0143	The report has no jurisdiction. Kate Piri sits there writing a report, not calling terrorists terrorists.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0206par0144	You haven't been around as much as Osman, he's been all over the area, he's been all over the place, he's been all over the place.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0207par0145	If you knew everything, Osman, why are you looking at the hand of Europe? Don't go in, if you don't like it, why are you begging at his door? Beg at his door and object to the letter he wrote.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0208par0146	Look, Kate Piri went to Cizre, she went to Diyarbakır, but how many of you went to Diyarbakır, you went to Cizre, you went to Tyre, how many of you saw it, how many of you touched it?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0209par0147	Our government is gone, and our ministers are gone, our deputy friends are gone, and they have never left their people alone.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0208par0148	Our government is gone. Very good, bless you, Congressman, bless you! Our government went with the Council of Ministers to Urbana, and played drums, and zurna, and took the horses, and went to Urbana, and gave good news to the Syrians in Balıkligöl.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0209par0149	He also went to Diyarbakır, and went to Mardin, and went everywhere.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0208par0150	What happened? A week later, the power was cut off. 500 acres of land is now drying up, lawmakers, it's drying up.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0209par0151	No, problem solved, nothing like that. We're also defending the farmer there.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0210par0152	What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0208par0153	300,000 people go as workers on the western side of Turkey as seasonal workers and another 100,000 will be added to the 300,000 people.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0209par0154	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0211par0155	There is no such thing. He says, "The plain of Karacabey is full of Jaffa."
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0208par0156	Now that I'm not angry, who will be angry? Urbana will give you nine deputies, the Minister will give you nine, but the Minister will serve as a Trojan horse in Urbana.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0212par0157	What do you mean, Trojan horse?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0208par0158	...in order for the farmer to die, and for the farmer to fall out of production, he puts forth all the effort and effort that he can. Yeah, can that really happen, can that really happen?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0213par0159	No, it's not like that at all.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0214par0160	Yeah, don't you see the irrigation tunnels? The farmers are pleased. Can't you see the tunnels, the tunnels? Don't you see the GAP project?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0208par0161	And even that is a reflection of the government's view of all policies from the A/A to the Zίe, in its own right, practice.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0215par0162	You're mixing the chap with the sugar.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0214par0163	Tell me about the GAP project, tell me about the irrigation tunnels.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0208par0164	What did he say? You can't talk about it, it's work, it's work, right? Well, the result is obvious, the result is obvious.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0214par0165	The result is clear, there are nine of Urbana... 317...
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0208par0166	Four hospitals have been closed in Urbana. Four hospital contracts with the SGK have been cancelled and eliminated.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0216par0167	The one who made a mistake has been shut down. All those who do wrong are shut down. Don't tell me it's closed. It's not fair.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0208par0168	He's being punished in some way. He's being punished. I don't give a damn about anyone who's not in my opinion, who's not in my faith, who doesn't swear to me in the election.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0217par0169	Everywhere, everywhere. It's not just in Urbana.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0208par0170	Look, do you know what this is, what this is called?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0218par0171	He is the authority of the people.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0208par0172	This is called, in a nutshell, the only leader, the only party, the only language and the only religious regime. This is the only party regime. As much as this country will suffer from one-party and national chiefship.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0218par0173	It's not the only party now, it used to be. Do you have one now?
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0208par0174	This country doesn't need a new national chief or a new one-party regime or a single party council from the founding will. This country needs peace, this country needs peace. My deepest regards.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0219par0177	He had a dream, but it was the wrong dream.
tbmm-2016-04-25sit08spe0220par0178	I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... Those who don't agree... Sustained. CONGRATULATIONS ON THE PROTOCOLOGY OF ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY MADDE 1- (1) On behalf of the Republic of Turkey signed on March 22, 2016 in Strasbourg, the European Convention on Reciprocal Legal Aid was approved on March 22, 2016. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. So the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that the vote of the entire bill should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, it is a clear vote on the Second Amendment to the European Convention on Reciprocal Legal Aid in Criminal Affairs that it is appropriate to ratify the Second Amendment: ▪ Number of votes used: 197 [[x]] Özcan Purçu Elif Doğan Türkmen God is All-beneficent and All-merciful. I will begin negotiations with Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which are ranked fifth in line to ratify additional Third Protocol to the European Convention on Restitution of Criminals. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin talks with Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which are ranked 6th in line to ratify additional Fourth Protocol to the European Convention on Restitution of Criminals. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the Commission will not be found after this, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (April 26, 2016) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order. I'm closing the meeting at 00. I wish you good night.
