tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 45th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Bingöl MP Hişyar Ozsoy, who wants to talk about foreign policy developments. Here you go, Mr. Ozsoy.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0002par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I've asked for a non-responsive statement on foreign policy, but I'd like to begin with a statement by Mr. Burhan Lamba, made on Twitter in the past week's time. A constitutional professor of the age of Burhan Lamb is spending his free time on Twitter. Recently, he made some statements about Sheikh Said in which there was a hint of humiliation, and he poured out curses and insults. In fact, I won't be able to return those words to him, that would be a serious inadequacy. However, we invite him to apologize, and also invite him into the boundaries of decency and discipline in his criticism. Despite what the official history claims, yes, it may be a very controversial figure, Sheikh Said, but one thing must remember: after 90 years, it remains a respected figure for the Kurds, for the Muslim community. In this regard, an invitation to Burhan Lamb: Please let him apologize and enter into the boundaries of decency and discipline. Now, time is very little to say: in foreign policy, a political crisis in Turkey, the Middle East, the inner economic recession, the economic crisis, again the political crisis within Turkey, plus another crisis in its relations with the West. So there are multiple crises, and he's trying to find a way out of these crises. Of course, we've already expressed on this bench what's consuming Turkey's foreign policy energy, the wrong policies in the context of Syrian policy have created very serious cracks in both Turkey's international alliances and domestic politics. For the moment in Syria -- we see it as a military adventure -- news of death from El Bab. The responsibility, of course, is for those who sent those soldiers there, and let's stress it, is for all political parties here who support thesis. In Syria, Israel now agrees with Assad, with the support of Russia and Iran, but somehow in Rojava, it follows a policy that tries to undermine Kurdish gains. Look, with the jet crisis, you remember, Turkey was thrown out of the Syrian table. Eight months later, with the official apology of the President, there was another return to the Syrian table, and relations began to normalize. However, Turkey has been sentenced to complete surrender in Syrian policy, along with the situation of the ambassador who was killed by a riot police officer in Ankara. During his meeting with Russia, he was forced to say yes to all the suggestions of Russia and Iran, with an incredible sense of debt and embarrassment. It was really hard for him. So, you're going to talk to a country about an important deal, but in your own country, a police officer shot the ambassador of that country. He was in such a state of shame that the Russians were there to give us Ardahan, and Kars. If he said, "There is nothing left to say, it was so troubling. Now, in 2012, Iran proposed a process of resolving the election with a transitional government, including Ihvan. With Turkey's serious responses, that plan was not successful, which would include Ihvan, Assad, and somehow take the country to the election and try to normalize it. But he's very ambitious, because of a number of goals in Syria, that peace plan did not succeed. At the coming point -- I don't know how long you've been able to read that 8-point declaration -- the state of the Republic of Turkey has been forced to pay tribute to Assad. It's a total bankruptcy policy, and at the root of that, we still have the Kurdish issue that Turkey has never had a relationship with... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We think it is. If Turkey doesn't make up for their relationship with Kurds...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0003par0017	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0002par0018	I finished it right away, Mr. President. ...he won't be able to get out of trouble during the next period. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0004par0022	The second non-responsored statement belongs to Alexei MP Haydar Akar, who wants to talk about transportation problems in our country. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0005par0026	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I ask God's mercy on our soldiers who were killed yesterday in El Bab. And my condolences on their grieving families and our nation. As you all know, a protocol was signed in Russia two days ago. This protocol contains the signature of Iran, Turkey and Russia; a protocol that states Syria recognises state integrity and regime. So Esed became Assad again, and Recep Erdogan became Assad's brother again. Now that we've reconsidered our policy in Syria, I say we'll prevent our soldiers from becoming martyrs. Dear MPs, this is actually a very important issue for us today; it concerns Istanbul, Sakarya, and Kopeli. Yes, you build trains, you call them fast trains, but the problems they bring, the citizens who live on those routes can't get rid of them. On this route, we also had regional trains, especially between Gebze-Istanbul, the suburbs, and Adapazarı, and again, between Haydarpaşa; of course, there were trains going to various cities of Anatolia; all of them left. You know, one hundred and seventeen years of Haydarpaşa-Adapazarı line is now dead. This line, where 30,000 people travel a day, where the student travels, the officer travels, and the worker travels, is now down from 30,000 to 19,000 a month. Why did he fall? Trains were cancelled in 2012 due to the fast train, while regional trains, along with the fast train, were said to be back online in 2015, but unfortunately, regional trains and suburban trains were never active again. At the beginning of 2015, when we were forced to travel 24 times a day, regional trains were dropped to 4.... we put on the so-called regional train. To express it, they started to run them so that they could say it, unfortunately, as I said, with 19,000 passengers a month today. These regional trains were very important to the area. There were about 20 stations in the cities and counties. All these things have been lifted and life has become difficult. Trains or transportation, roads, tunnels, what are they made for, guys? It's made to save time, it's made to reduce costs, it's made to add life to the economy, but you don't save money in the economy of these three regions, on time, on costs, unfortunately, you've sentenced people to buses, 30,000 passengers per day. Now, the people of Adapazarı are collecting signatures, with almost 40,000 signatures collected because these regional trains don't enter Adapazari headquarters, they go all the way to Arifija. In the past years, people who were able to travel from Adapazarı to Haydarpaşa, or a train from Adapazarı to Adaray, are now going from Aripazari to Adaray, from Arifija, from Pendik to Pendik, from Pendik to the subway, and from the subway to Haydarpaşa, or to Sğütüşme, are trying to reach Kadıköy. They use more than one vehicle, close to five, close to four. Now, this righteous demand of Adapazari is being blocked by the people's righteous demand of Sakarya Metropolitan Mayor, my friends. I address the MPs from Sakarya, who are on the Anatolian side of İstanbul, who are there in the electoral zone, and I address the ruling party MPs, the ruling party's Alexandria lawmakers: these regional trains, which are the right demand of the people, must be started immediately. The mayor of Sakarya Metropolitan opposes this, yes, a mayor of the ruling party opposes it. There are three or four entrances of the hemisphere, which I can do, says TCDD. There's only one line on the Arifiy-Adapmarket line, and I can make that line into a double line. He says he can do all this, but the mayor of Sakarya's against it, he's giving up a 17-year-old story in Adapazari. This needs to be fixed as soon as possible, and it needs to be backed up. Guys, seriously, as a friend of yours growing up on those trains... we took the train from the black train to the electric train, we went to school on those trains, we took those trains while we were doing business. Indeed, many people of the tribe of Samaria went to the market of Adapazari, from many of the towns of Kopeli, where they made their daughter's bridal exchanges. Indeed, they also destroyed Adapazari's economy with that logic. I'm asking you to take a look at this -- particularly the ruling party deputies -- to convince the mayor of the city. The State Railways are ready for this. Look, I'm telling you loud and clear, the State Railways say I'll do all the infrastructure, just as long as it's allowed. Really, it's a big problem for that area, it needs to be fixed as soon as possible. I give you all my love, my respect.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0006par0036	Thank you, Mr. Akar. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Kemalettin Yilmakkin, who asked for the name of World Arabic Day. Here you are, Mr. Yilmaztekin.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0007par0039	Sir, we're giving up.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0006par0040	Mr. Yilmaztekin isn't here.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0008par0041	I can speak for you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0006par0042	We promised Mr. Kemalettin Yilmakin, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0008par0043	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0006par0044	Congressmans, I will now promise 15 members of parliament who have entered the system based on their location to 60. I read the names of the MPs: Mr. Aydın, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Akın, Mr. Kalelcuoğlu, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Şimşek, Mr. Kılıç, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Nurlu instead of Mr. Özcan, Mr. Akyıldım instead of Mr. İksal, Mr. Torun, Mr. Özdemir instead of Mr. Özdemir. Mr. Aydın, we'll start with you, please.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0009par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. We are in the pain of our fallen soldiers on Syrian soil. 14 of our soldiers were martyrs in El Bab, and two of them, unfortunately, were martyrs from our Bursa. My condolences to the nation and its relatives, and to those who remain behind, and to those who are wounded, and to those who are hurt. It's even more painful to discuss the Constitutional amendment, which, with all this pain, will dissolve the powers of the House, lead to a regime change. Our pain endures day after day. At the same time yesterday, a plane landed at Istanbul's Ataturk Airport and retreated to the hangar, Airbus A340. In other words, Turkey has bought the aircraft that Tunisia's current President, Zeynel Abidin, used. The plane costs Turkey 77.8 million dollars. You know who's gonna be assigned the plane. With all these martyrs, while the country is under terror, on winter day, when people are hungry and cold, I leave this glorious life to our people's appreciation. I'll say one word...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0010par0053	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0011par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. COSGEB announced it would lend 50,000 liras. In almost every city across the country, there have been intensive applications, and these applications have ended. He applied for a $50,000 loan from 1,631 KOBI, which was registered to KOSGEB, who was operating in Niğde. Only 67 will be able to benefit from the loan. It was announced that the entire interest rate to be used through banks would be covered by KOSGEB. 12 months unpaid, and the rest were said to be paid in an equal payment of three per month. Criterially, top-of-the-line businesses that employ the most employees will be given priority. Only 67 of those applying within 1,471 businesses can benefit from the work. Given the economic conditions involved, I'd like the government to increase the rate in applications to KOSGEB, and to do a study for the benefit of more businesses.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0010par0057	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0012par0059	The olive groves in Darica district, known for their olives, are being built by the council, despite opposition from Republican People's Party members. The AKP is not listening to the law again. Despite olive protection law 3573, olive groves are allowed to build concrete. In the second part of Article 20 (3573), the olive trees, which are the symbol of Darica, cannot be narrowed down, can not be narrowed down. The olive trees, the symbol of Darica, are tried to be wiped out completely. The opening of this area to construction appears to be contrary to high-scale plan decisions. The practice zoning plan and development plan, which has a basis, is against personal, equality principle and law. There is no ground study in these areas. The end of this tree massacre, which will also end Darica's historic olive-making mission, must be given up the stubbornness of building olive groves. The people of Alexei are also curious about the ministry's views on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0013par0062	Thank you. Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0014par0065	I did it again, I did it again. This year, the AKP ended its summer and winter hours, which is an established practice by doing business with logic. However, students had to go to school in the dark, and our people had to go to work in the dark. We see that every day he's been following the problems that have been going on about it. Energy savings is very important to us, and that's what this practice was for. Giving it up also led to a waste of energy. According to November 2015, this year's weather temperature was seasonal, while industrial production slowed down by 6.53 per cent, with record-raising, unaccounted-for practice at a cost to our country. I urge our government, our people, our students, to give up this decision, which is a waste of energy, and move on to winter hours.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0013par0067	Mr. Wellercuoglu.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0015par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology: Yes, a $50,000 loan will be given through KOSGEB. It's been decided to be totalled to 15,000 people. Three days were given, and during that time, the website of COSGEB collapsed, and many people were unable to make the application, even though they had received the documents. Even so, it is said that there are nearly 2 million applications. The shopkeeper's rooms worked late at night, gave them records, but they were left with records and documents of people who would apply. What does that tell us? This shows how difficult our COBIs and our tradesmen are. So many people are exhausted because the criteria for loans are not exactly clear. We expect our Minister to figure out how to solve this problem.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0013par0071	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0016par0073	I'm asking the Minister of Finance: 1) There are different figures on Turkey's external debt. As of December 22, 2016, our external debt is how many billion dollars; how many billion dollars does our government own, and how many billion of it belongs to the private sector? 2) What are the tender numbers of Osman Gazi Bridge, the third Bosphorus bridge and the third airport in Istanbul, and has the Treasury sponsored foreign loans provided by the private sector for these jobs? 3) What is the reason for the work of the Ottoman Gazi Bridge, the third Bosphorus Bridge and Istanbul's third airport, and the construction-business-development model, in the form of a job guaranteed, loan guaranteed, profit guaranteed? Are there such examples in the world and Turkey? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0017par0078	Mr. Adjustment...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0018par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, I ask God's mercy for our martyrs at El Bab. I ask patience for their families and our nation. As a nation, I believe we can get through these plagues as soon as possible. One of the 14 heroes who were killed by a treacherous attack in Kayseri was Rizeli, my hometown of Rizeli, Uğur Korkmaz. On Monday, with the tens of thousands in attendance, we sent him to eternity in Rize. Once again, I ask God for mercy. His father, Yilmaz Korkmaz, I'd like to share with you a promise from our brother. Let those traitors hear: Today is my wedding, not my funeral. Today is a feast for me. He wipes the tears from the eyes of the soldier standing over the coffin with his own handkerchief. As long as there are these brave children raised by such fathers, this nation will not give way to these treacherous terror organizations. I, once again, give thanks and thanks to all our martyrs; I give greetings and respects to their families; I curse all kinds of terror.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0019par0084	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0020par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Major Bkent Colonelrak; Petty Officer Furkan Süçük, Petty Officer Pınar, Petty Officer Göktan Özpek; Special Sergeants Burak Boz, Ali Yılmaz, Oktay Durak, Akın Acar, Farhat Demir, Hasan Kakuz, Mehmet Kokkaya, Osman Çelik, Ali Sezai Yalçun and Ökkeş Karaca. We've lost 14 of our heroes again. However, on July 15th, there are still prisoners, especially from our special sergeants and privates. His parents sent him to serve, they acted in a chain of command, not involved in any armed activity, which is proven. Especially in Kars, Istanbul, there are men and specialists who are not involved in any incident. Mr. Secretary, we ask that they be hastened the judicial process and released from this side of July 15th... by privates, privates who are still under arrest... we get a lot of complaints about this. I expect you to do what you need to do, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0021par0091	Thank you. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0022par0094	Thank you. One Westerner says all this work, all this effort, we destroyed the Ottoman Empire, and it was worth the effort. The destruction of the Ottoman state, the size and glory of the Ottoman Empire, cost great prices, and our nation suffered a great deal. Then, on the ashes of our empire, our state of the Republic of Turkey was established. From our salvation and the founding of our republic, we have come to this day with many efforts. May Allah not make us look forward to this day and not put it back from the day we saw it. The distance we take as countries and nations and the position we're in, it's making someone very uncomfortable again. One who eats bread has an enemy, and two who eat bread have two enemies. It's serious. A day is a day. We have martyrs, veterans. I wish our martyrs mercy, speedy healing for our veterans, patience and patience for our nation.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0021par0096	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0023par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. 2 Deputy Prime Minister and 1 Minister are now on the Assembly General Assembly. What need did the new Constitutional amendment come from? Will the new amendment end terrorism? Will the new amendment end unemployment? Will the new amendment end corruption? Will the new Constitutional Amendment increase employment? Will the new amendment solve the problems of pensioners, employees? Will the new constitutional amendment solve the problems of subcontractors, 4/C? Will the new constitution change rule over the rule of law, the freedoms? Will justice come to our country with a new amendment? Will the new constitutional amendment solve the housing issue of our citizens? With the new Constitutional amendment, will the problem of the village of Hecinler, Düzce Province, which is on watch in the cold, snow, be resolved?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0024par0102	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0025par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. The construction of roads that have been going on for months in the districts of Dardica, Gebze and Jersey has paralyzed traffic in the region. Due to the roadwork of the meadow bridge, the closure of all traffic is gathering on top of the Osmangazi train station. So, traffic gets stuck in one spot at the time of work and going to work. At the entrance to Gebze, roadworks on E5 also raise traffic problems. Is there a logical reason for all road work to be done at the same time? Why are our citizens suffering? When will the ongoing road work at the entrance of Gebze (Gebze) and the Seayard Bridge be completed?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0024par0106	Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0026par0108	Mr. President, perhaps our heroic soldiers who were martyrs in Syria would play zeybek at his nephew's engagement, stomp the horn at his son's circumcision, pull a rope at his brother's, who knows, maybe play a cross-match with the one he loved at his own wedding. Lost again, mama's boy. May our fallen hero soldiers rest in peace and light. All our hero soldiers deserve respect. In the Constitutional Commission, where the presidential system proposal was discussed yesterday, the CHP MPs' request for a minute of silence for our martyrs was unfortunately denied due to a waste of time. I condemn the President of the Constitutional Commission's disrespect for our martyrs. You're in such a hurry for the presidency, but for peace and quiet, you don't move a muscle to stop the killings. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0027par0111	Thank you. Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0028par0114	Mr. President, 14 years of separatist and polarizing politics in the AKP's power have reached such a height that Sinanpaşa district of Afyonkarahisar Province, the sign of the late Erdal Inönu, which bears the name of the late Erdal Inönu, has been wiped out and replaced by the sign of the July 15, Milli Irade Martyrs Street Street. The martyrs and veterans of the 15th of July are, of course, the crown of our heads, but why was it disrespectful to Erdal Inönu, when their names could be given elsewhere or elsewhere in this town?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0027par0115	Mr. Grandson...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0029par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I ask God's mercy on our soldiers who were killed in El Bab, and for the immediate healing of our wounded soldiers. The KOSGEB loan application ended today. The shopkeeper, who closes jobs every day, who can't pay off his debts, has applied for this loan as a last resort. The quotas are set for the provinces, my constituency will benefit 120 people for the Army, but that number is extremely inadequate for the military, which is the capital city. We want the quota increased, and we want a fair assessment of our loans to be given to our tradesmen. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0030par0121	Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0031par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. December 23, the light face of our republic, the martyr of revolution, teacher, Ensign Kublai, is the 86th anniversary of the massacre of the reactionary gangs. I honor all our martyrs, especially Kublai, and the martyrs of the revolution. On December 23, 1930, in the name of the so-called religion, Kublai, the republicans of our country, and the intellectuals of our country, will live forever. As Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, with Kublai's clean blood, the republic has found life and strength. I'd like to ask the government: Do you intend to name one of the education schools in İzmir at a time when our martyrs were named after schools, Kublai, a teacher who was a martyr? Do you have this kind of work? Our citizens expect a statement from the government.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0032par0128	Thank you. Members of parliament, Mr. Kemalettin Yilmakin, who is the third member of the order off the agenda, was not in the courtroom when I announced his name, but later, he told me that the flow of agenda had changed at the last moment, because he didn't know about the change. Our friend has been prepared, and before we go public, I'd like to make a promise to him, off-the-tops, off-the-tops, off-the-tops, off-the-tops. Here you are, Mr. Yilmaztekin.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0033par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I apologize to all of you. There's been a delay for reasons that aren't my own. First of all, I condemn the treasonous attack on our soldiers on the morning of December 17th, with anger, hatred, and hatred. At the same time, I condemn the intervention of our soldiers fighting under the Battle of the Battle of the Firat Shield with anger, hatred, and hatred. As Turkey, we know that with Turkish, Kurdish, Arab, there is no war that traitors have ever won, and there never will be. If those dark focal points have made it their duty to attack us this way, then it is our duty to bury them in history along with their treachery. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy upon our martyrs, patience for their families, and immediate healing for our wounded. Precious lawmakers were organised on December 18th to highlight the importance of Arabic on the grounds of World Arabic Day. As is known, Arabic is one of the world's most powerful and rich languages spoken in 60 countries. I wanted to draw attention to the importance of Arabs and Arabic under the roof of our House, especially as an Arab citizen in this troubled time of Arab society. Starting in ancient history, the fates of the Anatolian and Arab communities were sadly tried to be blocked by borders between villages and cities. For example, Akchakale, a border district of Şanlıurfa, where I was born, was the same district as Tel Abyad district of Syria, and in the ancient name of Tel Abyad, the villages of two different states were interconnected by foreign hands who didn't know it one morning, while they were home to Arabs and Turks. Likewise, Ayn Al Al-Arab and Suruç and Rasulayn can give them hundreds more examples, but no frontier has removed the fact that those who remain on the other side of the border are part of our hearts; the cords that divide the land have not divided the consciousness of being one among our brothers and our hearts. Despite some 100 years of segregation, the Arabs in Turkey have always served in the service of the state of the former Republic of Turkey, who have always stood by the interests of their state and have never been betrayed as the last bastion of Islam. Not only the Arabs in Turkey, but all the Arabs in the world view Turkey as their own home, but Turkey has respect for and respect for any other country. It is not because of policies that have closed the borders, that have accepted Turkey as political boundaries and have insulted all other communities outside the West, but because of character, visionary, and sisterhood-based foreign policy, which has been implemented since Ottoman (Ostian) and has been positioned on the unity of fate. Turkish, Arab and Kurdish communities, who have been able to meet on the heart language with this new policy that has begun with the EC PARTI power, have also reached a common denominator with their political elements, praise be to God. Precious lawmakers, Arab citizens in Turkey, often live in cities such as Hatay, Adana, Kilis, Gaziantep, Şanlıurfa, Mardin, Batman, Siirt, Bitlis, Turkey, and are spread throughout Turkey. The Arabs of Urbana have been farming on fertile land such as the Plain of Harran for centuries -- as you can see here, we hope, all of you, touristically, as our guests -- working in livestock and commerce, harvesting the land; also, as you can see, as coffee, drinking the purra, playing the manga as a game, stealing the ribda as a musical instrument. And they never stop beating women like that, like they're Ottoman women. One of the most important things is that, as you can see, Recep Tayyip Erdogan was bound to his death and his loyalty, as always. This is one of our most important features. At the same time, the vast majority of Arabs, as we call them, are lovers of Erdogan. More than 90 per cent of the vote was cast in the districts of Harran, Akchakale, where I run the election. The Arabs have always stood in line with those who stood by this state and those who stood by this nation, who dedicated their lives to serving this nation, who defended the last stronghold of Islam relentlessly, and who took the tradition they received from the Ottomans and made the philosophy of the state a principle of their life for the rest of their lives. Dear lawmakers, the Arabs of the world have been persecuted. The Arabs, with the fall of the Ottoman Empire, were overwhelmed by puppet governments, lacking leaders in various parts of the Middle East, and now they love him to death because they have found the leadership they have longed for for for for for for the century in our president's person, and they want everyone to know that they are under his command. On this occasion, I congratulate the day of Arabic on December 18th, and salute the great assembly and all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0034par0146	Thank you, Mr. Yilmakin. Mr. Master, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0035par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs; you know, Operation Firat Shield continues; we have 35 martyrs, 14 of which are yesterday. I ask the Lord God for his mercy, and for our wounded, and for the speedy healing. Mr. Secretary of Defense will be with you shortly on this matter. We, the National Movement Party Group, will express our thoughts. Today is also 22 December, the 102nd anniversary of Operation Sarikamis. Operation Yellowkamis is an epic tale of steps to the death to save our country from enemy invasion. Operation Yellowkamish is a story of men walking toward Allah and His Apostle with summer clothes and bangs at minus 45 degrees, the story of men who walk from the mother to the yard and from the field for the values they believe in; the story of those who do not turn their backs to the enemy, who do not turn their backs, who do not turn their backs, who do not turn their backs, who do not obey their commanders. Operation Sarıkamis was launched to save Kars, Sarıkamiş and Ardahan, under Russian occupation, to prevent the Russian offensive and to open the gates of the Caucasus and the Turkish provinces of Central Asia. Another goal of this action is to make a bright start to World War I. In a strategic mistake, our troops, who extended the way to Sarikamis, crossed the mountains of Allahuekbar in difficult conditions and fought back with the help of minorities in the region as they were about to end up victorious, and both sides suffered great losses. Of course, in all these negative circumstances, every soldier who struggles with snow, ice, to carry out his duty to his commander is an extraordinary example of heroism, fighting to save this region from enemy invasion. One of the most difficult phases of World War I, Sarikamish, is that we honor all of our martyrs, who have written a unique epic epic of bravery, a great sacrifice and heroic example of brotherhood for future generations, who proudly commemorate this day in our history against all the nations of the world, who have given their soul to eternity because of enemy bullets and freezing cold.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0036par0158	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0035par0159	Today is also the anniversary of the death of Yilmaz Çolpan, director of the Turkish Bureau of Tourism and Identifying in Paris in 1979, by the terrorist organization ASALA. On this occasion, we wish great success to all of our law enforcement forces, fighting terrorism inside and out, for the integrity and unity of this country. We ask all our martyrs for mercy from God, and for speedy healing to our veterans. Martyrs are our honor, veterans are our honor. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0037par0162	Thank you. I, too, bless all our martyrs, along with the martyrs of Sarikash. I want to express my gratitude to all our martyrs. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0038par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been rebutted today by direct party spokesmen, who object when we say that the judiciary regarding our arrested MPs has been political, that the decision has been political, and that this has been turned into a hostage-taking policy by political power. AKP Party Speaker Yasin Aktay told the newspaper that the arrest of our MPs has clearly taken over the process and that it is an infinitive in the community if there is no riot, the detention of MPs is a comfort, and the community is not in favour of this consolation." he has adopted this hostage-taking policy. I strongly condemn Mr. Aktay. The lawmakers who have been chosen like him, who have come here by the will of the people like him, are strongly condemning the authority of the judiciary for making statements that would mean instruction to him, and we expect him to explain that. Another is the Confederacy of Public Workers' Unions (KESK) for the past two days, with a march from Istanbul to Ankara (KESK) to layoffs, antidemocratic practices, and a police obstacle in every province where they march. Shutting down democratic rights methods and their pathways will in no way bring anything to this country's democracy, and these antidemocratic obstacles must be terminated immediately. Mr. President, I've been witnessing antidemocratic practices, especially against opposition media organs, with TV and radio broadcasts stopped, newspapers closed for some time now.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0039par0174	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0038par0175	More Alevi music, Yoli TV -- one of the rare opposition channels that are trying to spread its teachings -- has been licensed abroad and released, and has been challenged by the RTÜK, demanding an annulment by the RTÜK, even though it has no authority. The RTÜK gives its authority to the government with the Turkish Cypriots, but using other powers that are not within its jurisdiction, an embargo continues to apply censorship on the opposition press. I also say that this applies to an antidemocratic practice, and I would like to say that I condemn this practice. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0039par0177	Thank you. Mr. Lightning, I have a favor to ask of you. You have arrested MPs. Of course you can stand against it, you can criticize it, you have the right to say something about it, we respect that, but I don't think it's right to use the word "rehin" here. We'd appreciate it if you'd pay attention. This is a state of law. A process has begun about the judicial pathways. I'm just suggesting that you don't use the word "rehidden" and I'm asking you to.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0038par0179	Now, Mr. President, for the record, if we really believe that these were taken in the independent judicial process, we'll call it "retainment," but the spokesman of the ruling party owns this process, and we have it.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0039par0180	No, no...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0038par0181	If it's a political decision, it's not called arrest, it's called a hostage, because political power is the owner of the process.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0039par0182	Mr. Yıldırım, I haven't read what Mr. Yasin Aktay said, and I never speak in terms of defending him because I don't know what he said. Of course you have the right to be critical. This request is not about Yasin Aktay's writing; it is about me, in general, being sensitive to this understanding you use. Otherwise, I didn't read the writing of Yasin Aktay, I don't know, I'm not in a defensive position right now.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0038par0183	Mr. President, last but not least, we don't believe this is an independent judicial process. The party spokesman for political power also owns the process, says he owns the business. That's all I want to say. If one political understanding is holding the MPs of another political party with power politics, we will never call it arrest. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0039par0185	I thank you, too. Mr. Altay, please come in.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0040par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. I asked the government to inform the General Assembly of the news we received yesterday from El Bab. We appreciate the government's positive view of this demand, and we thank you. However, Syrian policy and terrorism-related issues are limiting negotiations in Turkey's Grand National Assembly -- not just in Syria, but in the fight against terrorism or fighting or increasing terrorism, violence -- according to our Council of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, of course. I don't think that violence and terrorism in Turkey can be explained in twenty minutes by the government or that political parties can reveal their understanding and proposals in ten minutes, both to protect Turkey from the threat of terrorism. Therefore, if the General Assembly sees fit, I find it helpful that we may have done a productive job in our Parliament, for our country, to extend the time of these talks a bit further, a bit more reasonable. I'd like to offer the compliments of both your Grace and the General Assembly. I'm looking forward to a decision or an evaluation on that, though. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0041par0192	Thank you. Mr. Altay, you know, according to Article 59, we're going to do this in a moment. The times are set there, but, of course, if the group's vice presidents have a common proposal, I'll go along with it. I'd like to say that there's no problem with that for me. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0042par0196	Mr. President, thank you. Once again, I pray for God's mercy on our martyrs in El Bab. I pray for a cure for our veterans. They're carrying out a very important mission. In terms of Turkey's calm and well-being, if we take into account the risks and dangers of this geography in terms of its stability, we will understand the meaning of the operation there. We're going to talk about this in a very thorough way here today, and the government will talk about it, and the political party groups will talk about it. The meeting, of course, is envisioned to be held within the framework of the Civil Code, within certain times, under appointed times. But as an exception, we basically support the importance of the issue, the approach by Mr. Altay, which Mr. Altay expressed during a slightly wider period of time, that the groups should discuss it, because it is not only related to Syria, but also because there is a background related to terrorism in general. In my opinion, this time -- as an exception -- can be applied to 15 minutes of political party groups if friends find it appropriate, if they find it appropriate. The government self-determinates its own time, and sets a deadline within the scope of the matter. On the other hand, the position of the EC PARTY regarding the issues expressed by Mr. Yıldırım is clear. The law continues in its own way, and politics runs in its own way. We all need to be careful not to confuse politics with law, not to confuse both issues.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0043par0200	Complete, please, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0042par0201	A state of law of the Republic of Turkey may have objections about the functioning of the law, we may have arguments about whether or not it can do its duty, but that's the law that we have, and the law must operate within the framework of its own conditions and its own objection mechanisms. It is not appropriate for a law-designed area to be shaped by the political ability -- however it may be -- to be formed. As a party, we strongly reject the attacks on HDP's party buildings, saying that it has no place in a legal state, that these buildings are entrusted to the state, that the state will do its duty. On the other hand, we also benefit from the fact that politics is still in law enforcement. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0043par0203	Thank you. Congressmans, Mr. Minister of National Defence, Mr. Fikri Ikl. There is a request on behalf of the government for the Battle of the Barrier Shield, under Article 59 of the Civil Code, that I will meet this request. After the Minister's statement, I will make a promise to political party groups at their request and to one of the non-group lawmakers. According to our Civil Code, I'll give the government an extension of 20 minutes, 10 minutes for political party groups, 5 minutes for lawmakers without a group, plus 5 minutes for speakers. I'd like to declare that, too. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0044par0211	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to inform the Veterans Assembly on the last days of Operation Fırat Shield, which began on August 24, 2016 and entered its 121st day today. I salute your high council. Before I begin my words, the man who died yesterday... unfortunately, as of last night, two of our five heavily wounded gases have been delivered to Hakk, and our number of martyrs has risen to 16, and we have 3 seriously wounded. I wish them all mercy from my Lord, and speedy healing for our veterans. In addition, today, I pray for the mercy of my Lord to our Sarikamish martyrs in the 102,, year of Operation Sarıkamis. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are experiencing the biggest upset since World War I. The process, which began with the First Gulf War in 1991, continued with the second operation in 2003, but these operations, with the promise of peace and democracy, have now led the region to perhaps the most serious turmoil and turmoil in its history. The region has turned into a stream of blood and tears. Hundreds of thousands of people lost their lives, millions of people had to leave the land where they lived. Aylan, the baby who struck the beach with her lifeless body, our Umran child, who watched mankind's hardened conscience with his dull eyes, had been robbed of hope for the future of hundreds of thousands of children, women, and young people, whom we did not know her name as our daughter, who had preached to the world the scream of Aleppo, with much more responsibility than her age. The dictators, who were not afraid to drop bombs on their own people for the continuation of their own power, played a leading role in the formation of this disastrous painting, leading leaders and governments who led the region to disaster with sectarian and segregating policies for their seats. International agencies and some major states who claimed to establish world peace ignored the fire in the region, did not put their hands under the stone, did not do their part to wipe out the tears of the innocent and the oppressed. The failure of governments in the region, the country's unmanageable state, the fact that the global forces that flagged peace and democracy's rhetoric, but prevented them from taking action, deaf to the sounds that have risen from this geography, has created a very convenient basis for many terrorist organisations, particularly the DEAS, and have caused them to settle in areas. Terror groups nesting just beyond our borders and getting more and more fierce began to threaten our borders, our cities, and our country. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as it is known, Operation Firat Shield has been launched to ensure our right to self-defense due to international law, to prevent DEAS attacks, and to prevent the formation of a terrorist corridor next to our borders. We all know that the DEAS terror organization, which took advantage of the civil war environment in Syria, launched Katyusha rockets at our country almost every day during its border security, during its presence in our border zone, so that 21 of our citizens lost their lives and hundreds were injured, and that 241 of our citizens lost their lives in the attacks carried out in Suruç, Ankara, Istanbul and Gaziantep. At that time, even though we were able to deal immediately with the attacks of the DEAS, the DEA was able to escape from Syria and hide deep within the border. Therefore, the DEA threat was not completely eliminated. As a result, we were the most affected by the terrorism caused by Syria. As you know, hundreds of our citizens have lost their lives due to terrorist attacks by both the DEA and the PKK/PYD-YPG. Taking the necessary measures against these terrorist attacks is our government's top priority to ensure the safety of our citizens' lives and property. Thus, Turkey is also putting up a big fight against PKK/PYD-YPG, which provides weapons and ammunition from some third countries, claiming not only against DEAS, but also against DEAŞ. Moreover, this network of terror claimed that it was the only actor in the land who could fight against DEAŞ, taking advantage of the international community's inability to fight the DEAS. Thanks to his support in this way, he was drawn to the desire to acquire land in northern Syria and to unite the cantons under his control. We also know that some 600,000 people lost their lives in the civil war in Syria, nearly half the population had to leave their homes, millions of people were refugees, and 2 million 750 thousand Syrians took refuge in our country. We've been trying for years to explain to the international community that until a permanent political solution to the conflict in Syria is found, there should be a safe zone in Syria. Thus, we say that not a solution, but a safe and peaceful area for the Syrians to live in their own country, where humanitarian aid can be easily delivered. Mr. President, under these circumstances, the Operation Firat Shield has been initiated in accordance with the 51st Amendment on the right to self-defense of the United Nations Code and in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, in order to ensure the safety of our country and our citizens, as well as to establish a safe zone of terror to our displaced Syrian brothers. As a matter of fact, Operation Firat Shield is also supported by the International Coalition of Anti-Deash. At the same time, our air force elements participating in this operation are able to carry out their duties in co-ordinated airspace controlled by the Coalition and the Russian Federation. Thus, the Free Syrian Army is intended to fight in the field with our support and to rid a specific region north of Syria of DEAŞ, and any threat of terrorism. As the DEA is purged of terror and other terrorist organizations, we know that the return to this region has begun. It is really important for Cerablus, Errai, and DEAS to save the Dabk, which is of great symbolic importance. So the area within 2,000 square kilometers was completely wiped out by terrorists, 225 settlements were liberated. So far, 1,005 terrorists from the DEA have been neutralized as part of Operation Firat Shield. In addition, 4 tanks belonging to the DEA, 29 mortars, 41, 97 vehicles armed, 621 buildings and 61 defensive positions, 28 command centers, 17 arsenals destroyed, 11 bombs were disabled. While fighting against DEAŞ, the PKK/PYD-YPG elements in the region must also be dealt with. This PKK/PYD-YPG terrorist has so far been neutralized by 299 terrorists within Operation Fırat Shield. During these operations, 14 buildings belonging to the PKK/PYD-YPG have been destroyed, 4 defence positions, 5 vehicles and 1 drones. Mr. President, there is a great struggle at the present stage to clear Al-Bab, the most critical and challenging phase of the plan of action, from the DEAS. Knowing that the turn will come after El Bab, the DEA has shown serious resistance here with suicide attacks, snipers, hand-made explosives and various traps. Because El Bab is also a geographical and psychologically critical place for DEAS. Continuing siege and housing battles from the north and west of El Bab (El Bab) are carried out with maximum precision due to the fact that this is a dense civilian settlement. The DEA is acting treacherously in its most violent ways, using civilians as human shields. As a matter of fact, one of the most resistant positions of DEAS is a hospital area in the western part of El Bab, on a hill that dominates the city and has been transformed into a military headquarters and ammunition depot by the DEAS. Our most martyrs were given during operations that were under way during the capture of this place yesterday. The Free Syrian Army also has martyrs. Without a doubt, these losses upset all of us deeply. Thirty-five heroes who have sacrificed their lives to prevent the security of our country and the formation of a corridor of terror right next to our borders will live in the hearts of our nation forever. The members of the Free Syrian Army, who were killed during the Fırat Shield, will not be forgotten in their own homes. Mr. President, good lawmakers, unfortunately, the scourge of our age is not an easy task to fight terrorism. This challenge is even more difficult, especially in areas where countries that have collapsed or collapsed are engaged in armed conflicts and power wars. It's a very difficult and delicate situation to plan and carry out operations against criminal terrorists who have no fear of using civilians as human shields, especially in the areas where innocent civilians live. And in our region, the fight against terrorism is also more difficult when some forces with other accounts are using potential actors in the region, and the games are designed to be over. With Operation Fırat Shield, we have found that Turkey would not consent to any terrorist organization operating, building a terrorist corridor, or causing any kind of closure in a region that is of great importance to our national security. At the same time, Turkey is the only country, such as the DEA and the PKK/PYD-YPG and DHKP-C, to fight against all terrorist organisations in the region. Meanwhile, he is not idle, but also accounts for a treacherous assassination of the Russian Ambassador in Ankara and for disrupting our relations with Russia and the evacuation of the civilians in Aleppo. Turkey will not come to any of these games and will never surrender to terror. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in particular yesterday's meeting with my Russian counterpart in the Russian press, I issued a retraction for the use of a statement that doesn't belong to me. I specifically stated that the sentences expressed in this statement were not mine. But unfortunately, some ill-willed pencilheads and members of the media, as if these statements had never been made, I looked at them as if they belonged to me today, and they were wrapped up in a lot of comments. My dear friends, from the very beginning, Turkey sees the moderate opposition in Syria as a legitimate defense against the tyrant in its territory. Today, Russia has agreed to set a barrier between moderate opposition and terrorist groups, making a distinction between them. It also makes sense that some - especially those who still do not accept the fact that even Russia accepted the truth - have, in a persistent and stubborn manner, become the spokesman for Esed. With the spirit of national mobilisation, we have no doubt that our government's firm position under the leadership of our President will succeed in this heroic struggle by the great sacrifice of all members of our Turkish Armed Forces. In this scope, all measures for the supply, care and supply of operations as the Ministry of National Defence will be taken and measures will continue to be taken based on the developing needs. From the beginning of the operation, all necessary measures are taken through the state institutions and governorships, in order to ensure that our personnel are best served within and beyond our borders and beyond. Mr. President, by the way, we explain to all our allies and friends that it is absolutely wrong to discriminate between terrorist organizations by using another terrorist organization to protect both Syria and Iraq's territorial integrity and political unity. We are endeavoring to do everything possible for a permanent political solution in Syria because the United Nations Security Council has failed to maintain its original mission, international peace and security. The latest two and three-way talks held on 20 December 2016 with the participation of Turkey, Russia and Iran in Moscow are a concrete indicator of this. We also discussed all these issues in Paris last week, London, France, England, and the U.S. defence ministers. This does not prevent us from taking concrete measures that we find necessary, not only with diplomacy. As we know, our cooperation with Russia has also made significant progress in the context of voluntary evacuation of civilians in East Aleppo. As of this morning, 37,500 civilians were evacuated from Aleppo to secure areas. In addition, the common statement in Moscow, which ensures the establishment of a permanent ceasefire in Syria and a political solution, is also being used to implement the road map. My dear friends, last week in France, we had separate meetings with the French Minister of Defence in Paris, London, England, America and the German Minister of Defence, Iraq's Deputy Minister of Defence and Chief of Staff. In these talks, Turkey's priorities, sensitivities and red lines have been made clear once again, and as a result of talks with our colleagues, we have confirmed their agreement on the territorial integrity of Iraq and Syria, especially in support of Operation Fırat Shield, the integration of cantons, the PKK/PYD-YPG in Menbic. Of course, this is no longer enough for Turkey, and it is time for action. In our talks with all of our allies, and with the Russian Defence Minister on Wednesday, we now expect that all of our evaluations will be Turkey, that these countries will take action, that there will be concrete action on what I just said. From now on, we expect concrete steps to be taken, and we continue our efforts to take those concrete steps. These efforts of Turkey, ultimately, are a significant contribution to the protection of Syrian territorial integrity and political unity, which we have been defending from the beginning. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are vital to the protection and support of our Veteran Parliament in the fight against terrorism in Turkey. We are confident that this protection and support will continue until our struggle succeeds. Because you know as well as I do that a great struggle has been waged to eliminate threats against our state and nation's survival. In this fight, you know that all our security forces, especially our Turkish Armed Forces, are at the front. Eventually, however, the decisive and lasting success in this struggle will come with the support and contribution of our entire nation. We have complete faith that our noble nation and our Veteran Assembly will succeed in this struggle. Finally, there will be a real peace, peace, and prosperity in our region. The terror plague will be removed, and our people will not be concerned about the safety of lives and property. Our land, with every square inch of its land carved with the blood of martyrs, will forever remember all its martyrs with gratitude, and will keep their names in its hearts for generations. The better days are on the horizon, and we are forced to continue our struggle with patience and determination. The support of our Veteran Assembly, represented by the great Turkish nation, will continue to be our greatest source of power in this fight, and the Republic of Turkey will remain forever. I salute the High Council with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0045par0236	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın will speak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0046par0241	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party to assess yesterday's events in El Bab. I salute the High Council. Today (December 22nd) is the 102nd Anniversary of Operation Sarikamis, which is well-deserved in the Turkish nation's honorary book and history. It is described as "Sarikamiş" and "Medim" under the snow. As Akif said in the levent soldier's temple, they are the name of the place where the hairs of the ancestor are covered in flesh, the mountains of Allahuekbar and the Yellowka. Congressmans, of course there are no winners of wars, of tragedies. It's an international wish, it's true; no war has a winner. But if war is fought for an imperialist's purpose, it is very wrong, but the wars for independence, for unity, for unity, for unity, for the removal of the beka problem are also unfortunately inevitable. When we look at our recent history, the Balkan War, the Yemen campaign, the Operation Yellowkamis, the Çanakkale that I just mentioned, and the Instance that they all feed and make up their spirituality is an expression of such a situation, which is inevitable. What I'm trying to emphasize here is that this union must be said in particular, that the moneymaker, the undead architects of this union, who have taken flesh and blood in all these fronts, are our martyrs who have transformed all kinds of geographical, ethnic, religious differences into wealth, into laps. Who are they? Sir, these are representatives of those such as Ali Kemal, who do not accept manda and protection, and who say, "Vatan or Silistre," such as Gazi Mustafa Kemal, who say, "It is either the will or the death!" Respected MPs, what's happening in Syria today? No country can take any risk or risk at the door of its home. Turkey cannot be trapped at the southern border. Today we see very clearly the need for us to be there more than in Iran, the United States, Russia, where they have actual assets in that geography. This is a requirement of our rights guaranteed by internationally valid contracts. So what we're going through today, Turkey can't be big, it can't be quiet, it can't be still. In fact, these days, when Turkey is in the midst of a really big terror spiral, it is necessary to read very well what is happening there these days. If you say, "Why?" we always say, "Look, it's the attack on the market in Berlin, which we don't think is possible, isn't it, the killing of a Russian ambassador, the terrorism of Paris, London, and different European cities before that, all of this shows that there's no independent international activity, even if it's a good thing." So, if Turkey is in a terror spiral right now, it's just a lack of thinking inside, or a lack of fully binding it out. You have to set up a very good cause-effect relationship and express the internal and external connections very well. To make this concrete, don't we think the presence of ISIS beyond the border today - for God's sake - is not reflected inside? When we look at what's going on in there so far, we see it clearly through the suicide bombers. So, again, isn't it possible that the existence of YPG and PYD across the border has somehow returned inside today? Isn't it possible that they could somehow project it into the inside of the state of the Republic of Turkey, the PKK or TAK -- whatever you call it -- with their villains? Of course it is. Thus, there is no difference between what we experienced today at El Bab (El Bab) and what we experienced in Kayseri (Kaseri). There is, of course, a connection between what is likely to happen today in Menbic, and the bomb in Beşiktas. The killing of the Russian Consul has to do with the Turkish presence in this geography, the presence of the Turkish Armed Forces, or the operation of the Fırat Shield. That's how you read it. So I want to look at both frames. Yeah, we got hurt yesterday. I'm afraid news of the new martyrs is coming in that you've been trying to force your hand these days. From every city, every culture, every ethnic group, every belief system, every age, married, single, engaged mama's boy. Over our border, when we look at maps, no one can make a move that will trap the Turkish nation, which should have the most say-so. For him, we can't allow an artificial, artificial, artificial formation, to be combined with two cantons, to be created, and to be allowed by a large operation -- which is particularly west of Firat, which begins with El Bab. -- unfortunately our allies have their contribution here -- by contributing to the illegal organizations there. For him, the action there must be successful. In fact, we are not only with El Bab, but with the right-handed Mare and Menbic as well. In doing so, we have to use diplomacy very well. It's not like lovers, one day friends, one day at peace, one day they're at peace, one day they're allies, one day they're not enemies, and one day we have to keep a deep diplomatic traffic with countries that really put our principles, our expectations, our demands on the table, especially the countries that make you feel like you're there. Iran on the one hand, Russia on the other, and the United States on the other, we have to make it very clear. In doing so, it is not just to lean on the SOC, but also to have a very consistent, highly accepted international response to its existence. Today allied with the PYD or the YPG, tomorrow, God forbid, with the progress of our troops, they will be able to engage in different attractions through logistics and weapons. We have to be very clear about this. We have to make our steps very clear by constantly informing the international press, the broadcast, the public, and we really need to put out the fire in front of our house. We can't ask for a slum in front of our house. It would be naive to ask. With these thoughts... Of course, terror has its inner dimensions. These extensions out there, they try to hurt us every once in a while, until they get what they want, unless they get what they want. We'd like to make a point or two about that, Minister. We're always making the same mistakes. Look, I'm gonna give you a couple of examples to refresh your memory. What weighs heavily on us is that now, our security forces, these children, they are not martyrs by fighting in the face, in the face, in the face, in the front. They're being martyred by bitchy schemes, traps, bombs. This isn't the first time we've been through this. Look, in September 2012, the same trap was set in Bingol Karliova, and we lost eight children. We put them in the vehicles, apparently, without logistical intelligence support, we threw these children into the lap of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and martyred them in 2012 with very primitive cables, rigged bombs.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0047par0249	Mr. Aydın, I'll give you an additional five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0046par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. On one September -2015 - 13 of our children were taken to the Dilici Border Gate, and we made the same mistake when the seizures were changed. Why do we forget the principle of water sleeps when the enemy doesn't sleep? And how can a mind with a thousand years of government tradition forget that? But the enemy doesn't sleep. Our 13 lives and children were lost every day by the explosion of the bomb that was set to go to the border gate on the drive-by. Now, today, Mr. Secretary, we're making the same mistakes again. So is Beşiktas, and so is Kayseri. Look, I don't know if he's not coming to you guys, but he's coming to me. It says here that our young are brothers and sisters in the service of soldiers and police. It's a ridiculous logic to carry. We can't even keep these kids in their natural habitat. We think it should be resolved quickly, and whoever's in charge of the logistical support, and who's transferring information in this business, should be brought before the law immediately and given the necessary punishment. This happened both in Kayseri and in Istanbul, I'm afraid. Now, of course, a negligence from the past... we're not going to do it, we're not going to do it. If we have a claim to greatness, we think that doing so will do to our size. On the other hand, I would like to stress one more thing, especially in the interest of being connected to events across the border and terrorist incidents within the border: Dear MPs, we must, with great common sense, bring our unity ahead of each day and make all our emphasis on it. We need to put our minimum partners on the line because nothing tastes like salt without a country, without a country, without a country, without sovereignty. In particular, we said that the enemy would carry our political debates... that the enemy wouldn't sleep because we're very, very few enemies. So there's no point in multiplying enemies; there's no point in camping, there's no point in dissolution, there's no point in polarizing. When we say that, our opposition is eternal. Today -- and I told you the other day -- let the innocentst throw the first stone, the last stone has nothing to say. We're aware of that, but let's not rub butter on someone's bread by brushing up on their pain by scratching from one side thirty years ago, forty years ago, by bringing up grief and shared experiences. We just said, really, this tuition is so mixed up that there's no way to divide and break it now, but if you think about destroying it, you might be able to isolate it. But I believe that within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, I would like to think that there is no individual, no group, no political trend, that aims to destroy this unity and unity. Therefore, the number of martyrs in December, with our recent martyrs yesterday, has come to a number of deaths, the number of martyrs lost in the war of many countries, believe me. Now we must learn a lesson from this and act with the logic of self-defense, not in self-defense. That is all of the borders of the Republic of Turkey's state, and out there, we have to establish our defenses, which could pose a threat to us. I'm saying that we have absolutely no choice but to do it by guiding, giving ideas, expressing our thoughts at the point of being one body and doing what needs to be done. With these wishes and wishes, I wish all of our martyrs the mercy of my Lord, the healing of our veterans, the condolences to their families and to the great Turkish nation, and to all of you, I salute you with my deepest respect.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0048par0255	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mr Ahmet Yıldırım will speak. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0049par0258	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I'd like to start by bowing to all of you. I've said it yesterday, and I'll say it again today, the number of people who died in this operation is closer to 40, and the wounded are much more than that. Really, as I'm about to give you, I want to express my deep regret about the deaths of these security forces, who don't know what they're getting into. I pray for them the mercy of God, and for their families, and for a speedy healing in the half. Again, again, as I'm about to say, we're dealing with an undefined operation that may not have been clearly intended, perhaps even to the commanders, let alone the poor soldiers there. I'll tell you what, that Congress signed off on sending those soldiers over there. This Parliament is the owner of the thesis that led to these deaths, along with those who opposed or supported the thesis. I apologize to them on behalf of my party and personally, for not being able to prevent their deaths, that all of this Parliament's will, which sent them there on my behalf, is responsible for these deaths. I sincerely ask them to grant us their rights. I apologize for not making the other parties believe that this dissertation isn't true as a party that has opposed the thesis, and for not sending them safely there, I apologize again for allowing them to live every moment of death in lands and cities they don't know. Even if we didn't sign it, even if we didn't vote for it, as a member of this Parliament and a group, we have to express our opinion. Dear friends, we've ordered an undetermined operation of purpose and limitation. Because we said that the President, the Prime Minister, the ministers, and the ruling authorities, from August 24th until today, one of them contradicted the fact that the Turkish Armed Forces were there, and one of them set out to be very different. It has been announced that they were there not to allow the federation and formation of northern Syria, to eliminate the threat of DAİŞ; that we were there to change the regime; and that the last, two days ago, the Foreign Minister, who went to Moscow, signed an agreement and signed an agreement that we were there to protect the peaceful structure, signed under a agreement that we were there to protect the sovereignty of the Syrian Arab state. Now, we were going to pray at Emevi Mosque when the first Syria riot started. On August 24th, when we launched a cross-border operation, we said that we entered as quarterbacks. Now the whole world sees that Turkey isn't a quarterback there, that Turkey is almost there -- in a sense -- a sidekick, an extra. I told you yesterday, and I'm telling you today, what if we took Bab? Do we get to keep the father? You'll see, after Bab falls, the regime and Syria and Russia will all say, "Get out of here, you're all finished." Instead, our young people die, our children die, we fight there instead, we clean it up and give it to them. Therefore, we owe it to the dead soldiers to ask for an apology and the right to be lawful. I'm saying this without any distinction. Dear lawmakers, look, let's just say that life is very cheap, and I'll give you an example of how our young people and our children are dying. We can all examine it, not much, but three days ago in the Hurriyet newspaper, the Afyonian soldier Olcay calling his father at two o'clock in the morning -- look, we don't know where we're going, we don't know where we're going, we don't know where we're going, we don't know where we're going, we're going; he says, "You're a martyr." It's in the Freedom Gazette. We don't know where we're going, where we're going, what our goal is. It's where the word ends. This is a picture of what a liability this House has become. The poor Conqueror Olcay and the grieving father Ramazan Olcay are not responsible for him, we are responsible for this House. Now, valued lawmakers, of course, we're going through a process where our children are getting as cheap as their lives are reduced to a subtitle, a breaking news story, that they're coming here to offer their condolences on the blood of our young people. If not, I want to be a martyr in an old minister's television program. If not, then I want to be a martyr in a television program. Look, I'm not saying this to give you the upper hand. I say this as a member of this Parliament to return when one of our young men's lives are near, before they fall to the ground. If not, we said no to this thesis, we tried to convince you. We can't afford to get out of it. And we're never at this point. Now, dear MPs, look, I'll show you some newspapers. The moment our young people lost their lives yesterday, long before the central media came under pressure, here's the pool media, the morning paper's headline is the ambassador's murder. Here he killed 138 DEASH people in Mehmedık Al-Bab. How much is the death of 14 of our young people? That much. That's the paper. That's what our children are worth. I mean, they can't even make headlines here. Where our children die, even how they die, it determines the way they reflect on the news in the pool media. Is the other one different? New Dawn. So, where are our children? Over there. That's the story of losing our children's lives, that's it. This Parliament has signed on for such a process. This one's smaller. Here's another newspaper, my dear friends. Yeah, it's just this nail, look, the size of my thumbnail, that's all. This, this is what we care about our children. And then we'll come, and I'll take their -- I'll take their forgiveness -- and we'll all go through their blood, and each one of us will be cut off from our own political power, from our own embodiment, from our own. Now, let's not take ourselves away, let's not take ourselves down. The Moscow agreement marks the bankruptcy of our Syrian and Middle East policy. What did we say? Now that we know the Syrian Arab state, we have no relationship with the regime. He is no longer Esed, nor Emevi Mosque. The Moscow text is a sign of that. Let's just say, dear friends, that we're comparing 138 to 14, for God's sake, let's do everything, but let's not compete in a death-scoring race over the blood of our children and our young people.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0050par0272	Mr. Lightning, I'll give you a five-minute extension.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0049par0273	Thank you, Mr. President. No matter what we do, let's not get into the score race. Now, the latest point is that in this process, it's full of unknowns... The minister has just said in his speech that we can't predict the depth of hiding of escaped DEAS. So, we're heading into places we can't predict, we can't predict. That's why yesterday when I was talking about this chair, I mentioned a Vietnam syndrome. The entire international literature defines this as the disease of Vietnam. The name of a country, a community, a political structure, in a land where it has no right to rule, is Vietnam syndrome, where its purpose is to operate in an uncertain way. There's nothing else in diplomatic literature that we can explain, dear friends. Let's just say that in the last few days, when we say that this country has lived in and out of its most difficult days in and out of its history, when we say that political power has driven one another to an uncertain place in an instigating, inflammatory, inflammatory, inflammatory environment, when I say that by political coups, it's a policy of taking hostage the will that people have chosen, and that's just now, when it brings the President's discomfort to us, I want to tell you -- not here -- but about the power that we have not learned from recent history by speaking in public history by speaking. Right now, our prediction is that the country is headed for a new coup. In the country, without losing any momentum of impact mechanics, all the cells are reanimated, the faults inside and outside are moving towards a point that feeds the impact process. While those young of us are finishing up a solution process where the blood is not dead, blood is not flowing, and the country is partially and indefinitely, where the soldiers, the police, are able to travel in the east, southeast, almost comfortably in slippers -- you will now get up and shoot the film. I wish we'd made his movie longer, but today we'd never seen the bloody images of our children, the movies and the news on TV. The solution process, of course, will one day be valued, filmed, no doubt about it. And any process that could prevent young people's deaths will have a place in this community's conscience, a film. Well, we're curious to know who's got the heart to make this film and pay for it in this senseless swamp of blood and black blood. Especially since this Rojava, and the Northern Syrian Federation, have been widely expressed about the North Syrian Federation, Turkey knows very well that it stands as the only island of stability in this chaotic environment of Syria, where Kurds, Arabs, Suryans, Armenians, govern a joint process in governance and parliament, and that any ethnic, religious, religious, religious color on the base, knows that there is no threat to Turkey at all, but that there is no threat to Turkey from Turkey to this chaotic environment, and that there is no threat from Turkey to Turkey to the plurality, cultural, religious, ethnic, ethnic plurality, and ethnic pluralism. I don't think you have a problem with the people there, and I don't think you have a problem with the formations there. Everyone wants to live in their own language, color, culture, religion, religion. It's just that the way political power has lost its mind is nothing more than an ordeal that has caused this country to suffer. I wish that the review of this statement, that the operation, the loss of another life, should be ended with the sake of this community, and I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0051par0281	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0052par0283	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0051par0284	Excuse me, Mr. Altay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0052par0286	During his speech, Mr. Yıldırım stated that the Parliament, which issued the thesis, was responsible for these deaths.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0051par0287	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0052par0288	As the National Movement Party, we are a party that voted for the thesis, and...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0051par0289	If you're going to explain, Mr. Akchay, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0052par0290	No, sir, it's an obvious taunt to be responsible for the deaths.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0051par0291	No, if you want to talk about bullying, you're just saying the reason.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0052par0292	Sir...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0051par0293	Okay, Mr. Akçay, you're making your point. I'm just asking to explain, to make it clear.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0052par0294	Sure.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0051par0295	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0052par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As I begin my speech, I would like to begin by saying that I resent both the government and the ruling group to remain silent and to remain silent. I mean, to say that you're responsible for these deaths, that's a very unfair accusation, valuable lawmakers. We need to know why Turkey is in Syria. Doesn't the government know why? We just watched Mr. Secretary's speech. He didn't use the punch line to bring it up. Turkey can't just stand there and watch. Condolences are not envy, and you don't need to be agitated by scratching social sensibilities. Our struggle in Syria must and will continue until all terror elements are neutralized. In order to successfully emerge from this struggle, we also have to be united and united against threats within. The operation is Turkey's operation to build a shield against terrorism. If we don't build this shield, we won't be able to fight enough of the terror elements inside. To remove the bullet from our lungs, we must succeed in this operation. This is a national security issue, and national security issues are solved with national will and national unity. The government, which represents national will and uses the will of the nation with authority, also has a imperative task, such as to clarify, minute by minute, and to clear up a blur. Our nation's support is behind our Armed Forces. May God be with each and every one of them, and I wish the grace of God to the 16 soldiers whom we hereby present to bear witness, and to our great relatives, and to our great nation, and to our wounded soldiers, our urgent healings.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0053par0303	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0054par0304	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0053par0305	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0054par0306	Mr. Akçay said that I had this conversation to accuse them of using those sentences...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0053par0307	You made a false accusation, he said.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0054par0308	Yeah. I don't intend to, and that's not what I'm talking about. I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0053par0309	That's an explanation, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0054par0310	No, Mr. President, it doesn't matter from here or there.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0053par0311	It makes a lot of difference. So, you didn't make an unjust accusation to the National Movement Party, that's what you want to explain?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0054par0312	I've never been, never been.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0053par0313	That's an explanation, so I'll give you my word on your location for a minute. Please, let's behave ourselves, Mr. Lightning. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0054par0317	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I ask you, did those soldiers go there on their own, who sent them? I counted this entire Parliament by involving myself and my party. Well, if we didn't send it... or we couldn't explain the thesis we signed on to the soldiers who went there. Here's Specialist Corporal Olcay, who doesn't know why he went there. Let's call his father, Ramadan Olcay, and offer our condolences and share his pain and ask him what he's talking about. I said it from the mouth of a soldier and the mouth of the father of a soldier who had been reported to the newspaper on December 19th. Another is, look, there's no chance of this country running any more bloodshed, any internal and foreign politics over the death of young people. On this basis, with a peaceful policy, we have the opportunity to maintain our right to sovereignty. That's why I'm saying we don't need to get into other countries' territory. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0055par0322	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0054par0323	Let me put it this way, especially in terms of peace, when Herod, the father of history, says: "In peace children bury their fathers, and in war fathers bury their children." Unfortunately, this country has turned into a country where fathers bury their children. There's no way this country can take it any longer. I think the mind of this country is capable of producing methods beyond that.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0055par0324	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0056par0325	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0055par0326	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0056par0327	Mr. President, we haven't been quiet about anything, so we'll talk about it when we get there. I'm just saying, for the record, we have a policy.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0055par0328	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0057par0329	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0055par0330	The Minister wanted to make a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0057par0332	Two minutes from the bench...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0055par0333	If you're going to make a statement, please do so at your place.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0057par0334	Mr. President, I would especially like to speak of the bench for two minutes without bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0055par0335	About Mr. Yıldırım's speech?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0057par0336	The burden of the House...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0058par0337	Who picked on Mr. Secretary? Did I pick on you or did Mr. Lightning pick on you?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0057par0338	No, no, I want word from the HDP spokesman for bullying me.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0059par0339	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0057par0344	Mr. President, first of all, thank you for your promise. Mr. President, I'd rather listen to the other groups and respond later, but after Mr. Akçay's statement, I'd like to share some information and specific thoughts on the words of your clerk, especially the one speaking on behalf of the HDP. Once and for all, if Congress doesn't decide to send troops abroad, how do we defend this country? Is this country only defended within its territory? A country must send troops wherever it sees the threat, and that's what the Grand National Assembly of Turkey does. Of course we don't want to have any martyrs, of course we don't want any loss, but we can't live here free and independent if we can't afford to give martyrs to keep these lands as our homeland. Having recorded this in particular, it is futile to present this PYD construction in northern Syria as a freedom structure. This is a terrorist organization. It is not only a threat to Turkey from the region, it is also a terrorist organization against Kurds living in the region. How can you call it a sense of freedom, an understanding that destroys all creations with weapons? (AK PARTY) What is such an understanding of freedom, killing the Jewish Kurdish, killing the Sunni Kurdish, killing the Shiite Kurdish? Do you consider killing people for freedom to be part of the concept of freedom? After stressing that, is there anything that those who talk about human worth in particular have to say about those who were taken to the mountains at a young age and raised a member of a terrorist organization against the Republic of Turkey? (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) ▪ Isn't it a shame for these children to go back to the terrorist organization and say nothing? These kids... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, let me finish.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0060par0351	Mr. Secretary, for two minutes of bullying, I promise. Please, understand.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0057par0352	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0060par0353	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0061par0354	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0060par0355	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0061par0356	He made it very clear that I had spoken about my presence in Syria, in northern Syria. Me, too.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0060par0357	Here you go. Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0061par0360	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we're discussing Syria and our life losses in Syria. There's nothing that you and we can gain from pulling the subject away from that context. I advise you: Look, one of the important writers of the pool media, Cemil Barlas, when they were attacked, is a DAEŞ, who stood up and died in Kobani. I am a DAEŞ in Kobani. I'm a DAEŞ in Kobani. Or, at that time, the Prime Minister of the period rose and fell. I suggest you: in the administrations there, in the parliaments, you talk about that Kurds do not tolerate Kurds, but there we read that the Arab Parliament Speaker, the Serbian Prime Minister, the Ministers, the Parliaments, all the ethnic, religious, religious pluralism there, we observe it, we follow it.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0062par0363	Do you believe that?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0063par0364	The world is at war with DAESH.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0061par0365	Let's put it this way: It doesn't matter whether you like it or not.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0063par0366	The world fights against DAEŞ, and we fight against DAEŞ.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0064par0367	Tell me how many 100,000 Kurds have gone.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0061par0368	On the other hand, in the State Department and in that wiretap, we, on the other hand...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0063par0369	We'll fight terrorism, of course.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0064par0370	How many 100,000 Kurds were evacuated from Rojava?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0065par0371	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0064par0372	How many men went to Turkey and Barzani?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0066par0373	Put your finger down, put your finger down!
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0065par0374	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0064par0375	Tell him what he believes, don't tell him he doesn't believe it.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0067par0376	Mr. President, I want an extension, and I can't talk like this.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0065par0377	Thirty seconds...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0067par0378	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0065par0379	Well, 30 seconds, 20 seconds, tops, you've lost from here.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0068par0380	How many 100,000 Kurds have gone from Rojova?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0067par0381	Well, I'll tell you...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0068par0382	Say it.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0067par0383	Why did the KDP pessimarchs come and go to Kobani?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0068par0384	You answer the question.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0067par0385	Why did you welcome Salih Müslim? You carried Solomon's Shah Temple through the corridor that was opened? Come and answer from here.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0069par0386	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0068par0387	Where does Salih Moslim's brother live? Is Salih Muslim's brother able to go to Kobani?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0067par0388	What's with the red carpet and the red carpet?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0069par0389	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to call the deputy leader of the group to the stand, please...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0067par0390	Come answer me, come on, answer me.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0070par0391	Answer me, is Salih Muslim's brother able to go to Kobani? Come and answer me. Don't spoil it like that!
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0069par0395	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Istanbul MP Mr. Engin Altay will speak. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0071par0398	Thank you. We can't solve it like this, this is our agenda at the point of counterterrorism, internal and external, what can Parliament do? So you did it, I did it. We can't do it either, we'll be eating two hours of Parliament for nothing. I'll tell you that first. Of course, there are two things that the opposition has done here: one, he's going to say what's wrong, and one, he's going to suggest and advise the government at the point of what needs to be done. And my speech will be about this minor. I mean, we're all in the same pain when we bury a lot of our young, plant, and I can't say we're sadder, but you should be able to look at all the other opposition parties like this. Congressmans, by the way, our number of martyrs in El Bab has increased, and two more of the wounded have been killed. We wish you mercy again. Here, I called upon the government yesterday not to ask for mercy, and I said that such an interview is needed. Now, I'd like to make a sincere and constructive assessment. In doing so, we also have a duty to criticize the government for certain wrongdoings. It is our pleasure to see that the government in this Parliament's talks, by taking out whoever it may be, at least from now on, put the anti-terrorism policy on a straight line. Let me tell you something as we begin: Mr. Secretary, here, just a moment ago, we still, at the moment, see the fight against Zalim Esed. He said something like that, but in the Russian agreement of the Foreign Minister -- I'm going to read it to you, you need to know, we need to know -- something different is said. A bilingual government doesn't have a government, a government has an understanding of one thing. Now, before we go in there, of course, let's ask, let's get started. We said, "Let's fight ISIS and DAEŞ, and we'll fight that thesis for him." That's why we said it. We, for the sake of this country, are not 14 or 79 million martyrs, but we can't afford to let our children fall to the ground for nothing. Of course, for this land, this state, this country, wherever there is a threat to this nation, the mechanisms of this state have an obligation to eliminate it, and we will take that authority from here, if it has anything to do with abroad. There's no hesitation in that, but there's a problem. Without seeing the source of the problem, in such a consensual way, or in simple military solutions... What we have come to in a battle with the PKK terror organization for 32 years is a grave point, a more grave point that has been happening for the past 14 years. Obviously, this government has a problem with the way he's doing business. As a matter of fact, we said that as the Republican People's Party, which began in 2009 with Oslo, that the solution process, which became clear in 2012, was not the right method. Look, we printed pamphlets on this, we distributed them to Turkey: the Republican People's Party's View and Solution Frame of Turkey's Kurdish Problem. We not only criticised the government, we made very concrete suggestions for the solution to the Kurdish problem. I, for the most part, have said these things on this stand. The state should be in a sharp and efficient fight with the PKK terrorist group, but this country has a Kurdish problem. I'll give you an example from this bookstore. اCHP does not find it right to negotiate rights and freedoms related to the Kurdish issue. CHP points out that the current AKP-controlled Imran talks -- look, please listen -- have deepened the problem rather than solved it, raising the public's doubts about the process. I swear to God, I mean it. From the beginning, as the Republican People's Party, we are a party that has proposed real permanent solutions to this problem in those reports, which we have been very critical of, including the report we wrote in 1989. We've suggested it here, too, dear lawmakers. Now, you're always saying: "Criticism, criticism; brother, what are you bringing?" We've brought 27 proposals of law, we've spoken to this Parliament and three main things, and we said: "What harm could there be in Turkey's Grand National Assembly?" Would Dolmabahçe have done more damage than your meetings in Imran? You didn't, you didn't. We said, "Don't look on the mountain, on the hill, on the island; the council is the solution." This is a Parliament that led the Salvation War, a Parliament that eliminated the occupation of seven heifers. Why did you lose that confidence, refuse this offer? What did we say? Let's not be afraid, let's set up a commission to investigate the facts. Did we say bad? If we were to expose a ton of disgrace to turn people against the state, half the kids who went up the mountain wouldn't go up the mountain. Did we say bad? One more thing we said: a joint council of minds. You know, when you started out as a pariah, like a team of celebrities, you sent it to the provinces... We said it was a joint intelligence team, but not from the people a political party would identify. What harm did it do to build a joint intelligence team in society that was subject to a theme, accepted, respected, recommended by you, recommended by us, proposed by the HDP (HDP) and by the people whom the DP would recommend? If all of this could have been done, I'm sure the state wouldn't be so weak in the fight against Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) right now. We're not going to go against the government just because it didn't happen, we're going to show the government the way, the way. At this point, we repeat our proposals, Your Honor, take this seriously. Don't let the kids die, take it seriously, it's necessary. It doesn't work that way, we're going to scrape its roots. It doesn't work that way. This incident, which started as ▪ Three or five marauders, has killed 8,000 people in Turkey. Do you know that that's not all the people who died of a bullet in the Battle of Salvation? We don't have that many people die with bullets on the front line in the Salvation War. Now, each of us has a conscience, a morality; inside it is a country, a flag; we believe it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you must press this government, the 65th government in the middle. Didn't your relatives ever die, or did your countrymen ever die? Are they not all ours, let alone the kin, the neighbour, from Hakkari to Edirne, from Sinop to Anamur? Now, that's one dimension. On the other hand, something beautiful has happened in Moscow now. Do you know what happened in Moscow? 62, 63, 64, and 65, the AKP lost governments, Turkey won, yes, Turkey won. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I read the first paragraph: "Iran, Russia and Turkey again respect the sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of the Syrian Arab Republic as a multiethnic, multi-religious, non-religious, democratic and segregated state."
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0072par0417	We've been saying that all along.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0071par0418	Oh, for God's sake, for God's sake! Now, we've signed a statement that mentions a democratic state; how beautiful, controversial, but threw it away, Turkey. That's why we called for the extraordinary meeting of the Assembly in August 2012. There are 8 articles of the Moscow Declaration, and 6 of our proposal, which we called to an extraordinary meeting of the Parliament in 2012.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0072par0419	Our thesis has been accepted.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0073par0420	Congressmans, you'll answer later, let's hear from the speaker.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0071par0421	For God's sake! I'm asking you about your minister right now.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0074par0422	Isn't that cruel, Assad?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0071par0423	Well, you said here it's a demokrat.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0075par0424	You were forced to call me Esad. It's as simple as that.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0076par0425	Congressmans, please, we're not mutually speaking. We don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0071par0426	Which one do we believe? Anyway...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0076par0427	Mr. Altay, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0071par0428	We said we'd stick to the Syrian central administration and its territorial integrity. Now, get over there, the point is, we're really curious, but...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0076par0430	Mr. Altay, I'll give you a five-minute extension.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0071par0431	On the State Department website, do you call this the Moscow Covenant, or do you call it the Moscow Declaration, or whatever you call it, why doesn't it exist? It's on the websites of the Iranian and Russian State Department. Why isn't he here? You're stuck. You're stuck together. Now, you're going to say: "A rascal came and killed the ambassador." Well, of course, there's nothing about it. This shouldn't have happened. The fact that this is an actual police officer has brought the government and our country to a very difficult point in the international community. But we also know that the result of a squeeze was very brief. The Republic of Turkey must not sign a text. The text is true, with this text, the AKP has lost its policies, Turkey has won. But he was put in front of us -- so it seems -- we signed it. We're not there either. We voted yes to the statement that this member of the group, the deputy president, said. We supported the government with the belief that ISIS and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) pose a threat to Turkey, that they were strengthened in Iraq and Syria, that they were fed logistically, and that they were involved in attacks threatening Turkey; and we gave -- I gave a warning, and I remember -- we said, "Don't go down there, don't go down." It's in the nature of the countermeasure, a mandate based on our border security. I just told you, ISIS is the most likely threat to Turkey; is it not a threat to France, to the United States, to Germany? He's a threat to Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Russia, right? So, the last thing he did was kill an ambassador to a terrorist organization; tomorrow ISIS will do something else. But does Turkey alone have land power to fight ISIS? Doesn't anyone else have ground power? I mean, doesn't Russia, France, America, Iran have land power? Can our Mehmet-chik be dragged so freely into a swamp so that the army of the world doesn't die? I'm asking, we need to look for answers. No one's saying we shouldn't fight ISIS. What's America doing? He's doing it out of the air. What's Russia doing? He's doing it out of the air. What's France doing? He lifts planes off the ship? You? Come on, Mehmet, go, go, go, go! That's not true. Our Mehmet would be a martyr to this country, but our Mehmet would not be the bodyguard of America, France, Russia, Iran. And we can't possibly accept that, that's not gonna happen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Al Bab will be wiped out of ISIS sooner or later, no hesitation. But why should it fall only to Mehmet-chik, to rid Al-Bap of ISIS? Why? Why can't we do this with the coalition forces? One more thing: America, Arabia, Qatar, Turkey were giving a block view to the point of the ambassador's murder; since then, Russia, Iran, Syria. Now, we've signed this Moscow Declaration. We're warning you: a little bit there, a little bit not here. I think Turkey should give up this policy: one shoulder on the block of America, Arabia, Qatar, one shoulder on the block of Russia, Iran, Syria. If you say so -- which I understand -- the end of this is catastrophic. I consider it a duty to draw attention to this disaster. The entire world sees Turkey as the garantor of jihadists, as its patron, saying to Putin Mr. President, "Tell this El Nusra to go to this Aleppo. Why would Turkey have a perception of jihadists as its patron, its guarantor? That's not what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. Dear lawmakers -- it's over -- the perception is that a Turkey that supports jihadists, a Turkey that gives them land, a Turkey that transfers them to battlefields, a Turkey that provides explosive raw materials, we need to break down the perception of Turkey as Parliament. It's perception. Let me tell you what we need to do: we need to have a sense of regional ownership. We need to be able to take a diplomatic process with the regional countries on peaceful ground, including Iran, Iraq, Syria. We need to take precautions and border security against jihadists who have collapsed at the border. Look, don't say "Idlib," there's Idlib at the bottom of Hatay. It could be the first spark of Turkey's new disaster. How many jihadists are there? How many civilians are there? If he does, I'd like him to know. If we don't take a precaution regarding Idlib, Turkey will face more disasters than 79 million, I warn you from here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, won't you give me a minute?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0077par0439	Well, let me give you a plus one minute, because your conversation is interrupted.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0071par0440	This government must take precautions against jihadists who have fallen to the border. We, the CHP, are prepared to give him what he wants, but I'm telling you right now, the government needs to come up with an urgent action plan on Idlib. We see this danger and we warn both the Supreme Assembly and Turkey must now remain loyal to the Moscow Declaration and abandon the sectarian and aggressive attitude towards Syrian central administration. The last sentence: the fight against terrorism is not with envy, it's with strategy, it's with vision, it's with vision, it's with cooperation with the opposition. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0078par0444	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0079par0445	Mr. President, Turkey has never adopted a sectarian policy, has cursed those who did it.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0071par0446	You know, you know, I'm not the one who called you Alevi.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0078par0447	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0079par0448	No one can describe sectarian politics to Turkey. We know all about the sectarians.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0071par0449	It wouldn't suit you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0080par0450	That's Western media talking.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0081par0451	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Amassian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı will speak. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0082par0454	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. First of all, let's clear up the heat on this bouncer thing. If Turkey were the bouncer of major states, it wouldn't have had so much trouble inside, it's alive because it doesn't have a bouncer, so I'd like to draw attention to it. (APPLAUSE) We were bouncers in the past, we were part by part by policy, we were at peace, now we're restless because we're not bouncers, and Engin Bey knows that very well.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0083par0456	Mr. President, this is unacceptable.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0082par0457	On the other hand...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0083par0458	We can't have politics over this, ever since you were a bouncer.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0084par0459	Mr. Master, please report your objection later, I have nothing to do right now.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0082par0460	I listened to Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0085par0461	We, the Turkish soldier, were never bouncers.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0082par0462	He's...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0086par0463	Everyone must object to being called a bouncer to another member of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0082par0464	Erhan Bey, do you mind?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0086par0465	How do you make the past worse, what do you mean by that?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0087par0466	Mr. Master, would you excuse me? Yes, it's not very elegant, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0088par0468	Add it to my time.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0089par0469	I mean, what did Turkey do, what progress did it make, and now it's not a bouncer, but a bouncer in the past? No way! We can't accept this, please.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0087par0470	Mr. Master, please...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0088par0471	Mr. Erhan, it's a shame...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0089par0472	It's not dirty...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0088par0473	Shame, we're talking here, you're interrupting me.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0090par0474	Yes, the speaker on the stand, please.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0089par0475	I'm picking on him, sir, so let him answer, okay?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0088par0476	Would you please add to my driving, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0090par0477	Mr. Master, I'm picking on him, so let him answer from the stand. We don't have a procedure.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0088par0478	You're going to ask from there, am I going to answer from here, Mr. Erhan, is there such a thing as this?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0091par0479	Yeah, can't you talk about it on the stand like that?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0090par0480	Talk to me later, please.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0088par0481	Add it to my time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0090par0482	I'll add a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0088par0483	Dear friends, congratulations to Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım. He certainly speaks beautifully, and people know very well why Mr. Yıldırım spoke like that. Some of the conversations are just those conversations, and other times they're remembered, and they're understood in that context. In that respect, I would like to express from here that Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım was clearly understood by our people, and that he was very successful in explaining his meaning. Dear friends, I'll tell you why we're here. Mr. Secretary has given me the details. I said, "Who are we in El Bab? Who are we in El Bab?" This is all of us who actually live in the Republic of Turkey. There may be differences between us, there may be arguments, but we are there because of a situation in common with the interests and well-being of the people who live here. I'll tell you why that is. I mean, a certain group, a certain party, not a particular policy, is directly related to the Republic of Turkey. First, let me start with a brief anecdote: I went to Iran in 2004 for a meeting. One afternoon in the city of Meshhed, where all of Asia is gathered in the marketplace, we are traveling with friends, a square. The Iranian teas are very clear, and I was looking for a place that looks a little bit like tea in Turkey, and I saw a tea stove on wheels in a corner of the square, and I approached it -- it was our kind of tea -- I said hello -- and I said tea; and I said tea. I looked, yes, the tea in Turkey, I said, fill it up. He said, "I'll fill it up." I said, "Are you Turkish?" He said, "I'm Kurdish." In Asia, in that marketplace, in color, in diversity, in international symbols, he was Kurd, I was Turk, the common tea we drank; I assure you, there was no difference between us. What matters is where you stand, where you look. Today, the world we live in points to a situation facing people and Turkey on a global scale, with a challenge, just like that marketplace in Meshhed. If we talk about our inner world in Turkey, we can find our differences. And when we talk to friends inside who have a very hot language about these issues, you get a sense that, let alone Turks and Kurds, there are two kinds of people in this universe, but when the context changes, when an international bond sits, you realize that we are faced with a challenge that fate puts in front of us today, and our destiny is common, our destiny is common. Let's see about that. So, what's going on? Here's what's going on, fellas: I'm not gonna see it with a magic ball, I'm not gonna guess who does what in the future. What do they say? Since ancient Greece, there has been no unspoken words under that dome. (Man's words and words in the name of politics and in this valley are not incomplete.) Today's global process puts a picture ahead of us, just as it did in medieval Europe. Medieval Europe was a very disorganized, very disorganized Europe, where feudal gentlemen, señores, and small princehoods established their sovereignty in small places. Who was the master of Europe? The Lord of Europe was the Vatican. The Vatican had soldiers? He didn't have a sword in one hand; he had some land in his hand; he had some land in his hand; but the most important tool to uphold his authority was those little princes, the feudal men who fought each other and fought each other, and took their breath before the Vatican; they kneeled before him, and called us peace. That small Vatican stood out across Europe as a political structure that held the least cost, the highest power, in the face of that unstable Europe. When we look at human history, the 16th, 17th, 18th-century colonial system, then the neocolonal system, central kingdoms, empires. Now, a new world is being formed in the 21st century, so let's see, see, and wake up. This new world is this: Global forces do not exploit countries by sending their soldiers, then their merchants, and then their clergy. These things cost a lot of money. What they do is they destabilise various areas, deepen the fault lines over the desires and desires of the people there, and they build their own hegemonias on that instability. Look at Eastern Europe, look at the Balkans, look at the Caucasus. Are we only seeing Syria? Is it just about El Bab? El Bab is also part of Iraq, part of Yemen, part of Libya, part of a major upset. If we can't put this picture that we're facing in the right place, if we don't see the challenge of what the imperial forces really want to do in the global processes, if we don't see our common interests and our mutual obligation to stand on the same side, as part of the same instability policies, we actually serve them as part of another job. Today it is a geography in the Middle East where ethnic and sectarian identities are provoked by the encouragement and support of those global forces behind it, where instability has been achieved, and ultimately, sovereignty is sought upon it. So what do we do? Are we going to be part of the interests of these global forces by acting in the direction of our desires and taking advantage of this game, of this plan, of being part of this attempt to destabilize? Or shall we act in the course of common destiny and the future, realizing our own powers to challenge it? I think the right thing is the second thing, that's what we have to do. In fact, if you look at it, in fact, you'll see that the real issue of chaos in the Middle East is looting and looting that is provoked by ethnic and religious conflicts and trying to rise up. Behind all the wars on the earth, there are more or less, one or more, the desire to plunder and plunder, and there are those who try to oppose it, who try to protect their resources. Wars don't just happen. As Clausewitz said, wars are the continuation of politics with other tools and are based on looting and plundering. What is now happening in the Middle East is essentially a hidden reality of dirty interests, looting and plundering under ethnic and religious cover. We'll lift that veil, see the naked truth beneath it, see that looting and plundering, the whims of global forces...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0092par0490	Plus your five-minute extension, Mr. Botanci. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0088par0492	...and we will face this challenge; I say we will, which is basically what Turkey is trying to do with its power, with its power, with its mind, with its politics. AK PARTY is power. Turkey has a destiny. Politics have an approach, of course, they have a way of reading, but I assure you, whoever is in power, has to rationalize it in a way that connects with the fate of Turkey, where it has to act by seeing the material reality, the concrete reality. Whether it's us, whether it's CHP or anyone else, as a result, Turkey has to act with a mind that puts its common destiny and future interests, expectations, accounts, in its own politics, and that's what the AK PARTI does. We are, of course, introducing the common ranks, there will be political competition, debates and so on, but we're bringing up a line that is fighting against the instability of the global forces out there -- as much as we can against that. Iraq has been tried to destabilise in this way. What did Turkey do? He talked about Iraq's territorial integrity, and he talked about it over the years. Why? Because when Iraq split, it wouldn't help the Iraqis. Perhaps in small places, some people would think they were in power in the fields, but they were just going to be masters of the castle from the garbage, princes serving the masters of the century, so the territorial integrity of Iraq was a political institution that would serve in the interests of all, in the interests of all. Iraq could only protect its unity, its integrity, the interests of each individual there, so that's the policy of Turkey. We were in favor of Syria's territorial integrity, but did we have the power to channel all forces in such a way that would guarantee Syria's territorial integrity? No. We're not the only element in the field, there are others, but at least what we can do is put political debates, debates in Turkey in common with the people here, but we also put together a mind around the Kurds in Syria, the Turks, the Arabs, the Shia, the Nusayri, and the interests of Nusayri. That's what we did when we said Syria's territorial integrity, but there are a lot of people in the field, lots of actors, the efforts of superpowers, the work of instability. Now, why are we here? Because we're interfering with a terrorist organization that's actually used to motivate ethnic and religious forces, but as a subcontractor of global forces, it's part of the looting and looting there. I assure you, whoever is Kurdish in this Middle Eastern geography, who is an Arab, who is a Sunniist, who is an Avenger only serves the interests of the global forces, and only those who are eager to plunder and plunder. Let the people know that their interests are all in partnership with the Sunni, with Alevi, with Shia, with the Kurd, with the Arab, with Turkmen, if they can increase this policy only one and only one, if they can tear up the ethnic and religious-looking veil and see the naked interest under it, then they can build this challenge against global forces, without the protection and permission of others. This is our position, and we will, of course, intervene against those who want to move Syria, Iraq, to the extent that they can -- to Turkey -- to the extent that they want to give this country a share of the instability there. Now the boundaries... if there's no stability on the other side of you, if there's no authority there, no state, your borders have lost their meaning in terms of your safety. Do we have a situation where we go back to Syria and say, "Sister, there are terrorists coming from there?" That terrorist is also traveling in Syria. You're gonna make sure you're safe. We have no eyes in the land of Syria, no eyes in the square inch. Whoever's in this geography with imperial intent... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If he's coveting someone's soil, let him have his eye.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0093par0498	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0088par0499	Get his eye out, his eye out. (EC PARTY Applause) Because it's the instrument of global power. Turkey's position is clear. Let's get our heads together. The common destiny here, and the purity in the future, is also a measure for the Middle East, an ideal, a policy for it, and let's understand that. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0094par0503	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0095par0504	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0094par0505	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0095par0506	I want word on Article 60.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0094par0507	Here, take your seat, just a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0095par0510	Thank you, Mr. President. The Iraqi and Syrian thesis is true, my friends, and our support as the National Movement Party is also true. However, I would like to point out that every time this comes up, I also object to AKP Group's timid, shy behavior. ISIS will drop bombs on your border every day, PKK terrorists will come from the border, massacre in the country, build a Kurdish state there, and the state of Turkey will stand on its hands; is that acceptable? The state of the Republic of Turkey is located on Turkish military Syrian territory for national security. Destroying terrorists in the source and focus is a national obligation, a historical obligation, and we all need to see it that way. The army of the Republic of Turkey has never been a bodyguard in any military era. If this country had accepted this nation's manda and protection, it wouldn't have been the Battle of Salvation, my friends. Now, please don't anyone try to make politics out of this. I mean, 14 years ago... you're going to run this country for 14 years, you're going to put the country in trouble at the Beka level...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0096par0515	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0095par0516	And then you'll say, "Sir, Turkey has done a lot of things." If we were bouncers like in the past, we wouldn't have to do this. No one has the right to do such politics. I'd like to point out that I'm very offended by this, that I'm condemning it. Turkey struggles with subcontractor terror organizations as a multi-frontal group, friends. It is a historical imperative that the government, especially the ruling group, follow a more rational, rational, more discreet, more unifying policy, a national task. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0097par0519	Thank you. Congressmans, our meeting under Article 59 of the Civil Code is adjourned.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0098par0524	Mr. President, of course, it's not very clear on the stand. The Republic of Turkey is no one's bodyguard, no one's bodyguard; I said it's because they don't exist. Please, let my words be understood.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0099par0525	Then fix it, it used to be, now that it's not... it's understood. If that's what you said, it's fine.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit01spe0097par0526	I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0097par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 45th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm reading the motions separately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the potential for tourism in the province of Kahramanmarash, we respectfully submit the Constitution's requirements for the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. 13/1/2016 1) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Manisa]] [[Sakarya]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] 7) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] [[Osmaniye]] 14) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] [[Isparta]] [[Antalya]] 17) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] 19) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] As of 2014, the province of Kahramanmarash has a population of 1,89,38. It is the 18th largest city in Turkey. It is located between the Central Anatolian, Eastern Anatolia, Southeast Anatolia and Mediterranean regions. Their beauty, of course, is diverse and interesting, because of the place where these regions meet and because of different climate properties. It is a province founded on Kahramanmarash, Silk and Spice Roads, which has contributed thousands of years of historical and cultural heritage to our country's tourism wealth, and has laid a cradle to important civilizations throughout its history that connect Mesopotamia to Anatolia and Cappadocia. The Ashab-i Kahf Ashab, the Ashab-i Ashaf Ashliya, a large number of historical castles, bridges and inn, baths, medresa and mosques are a major problem with the archaeological museum, which contains many of its artefacts, including the Archaeological Museum, the Kahramanmarash tourism, faith and cultural tourism. The tradesman's problem with communication and product marketing is that the city's people are unaware of tourism and cultural values, that they are not qualified in the housing industry, that the miniatur souvenirs of Kahramanmarash are not rich enough, that the tourism entrepreneur is low, that the sector is underrated, awareness and entrepreneurial. The tourism industry has become increasingly important to many of our cities in recent years, when the fragility of economies, the pressures on employment and production have increased. In the last 20 years, the number of tourists and tourism revenues in Turkey have shown a significant increase. It helps reduce unemployment rates by increasing income employment and contributes substantially to the current accountability of cities due to foreign currency-profit activities. It is useful to conduct parliamentary research in order for Kahramanmarash to take advantage of tourism investments at the level he deserves, to make the necessary initiatives and to investigate the problems that have happened. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Article 98 of the Constitution and Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Code, which ensures that they can be conducted in order to determine their reflections to public employees. 1) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 6) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Aydın]] [[Erzurum]] [[Inconceived]] 10) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] 13) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mughle]] 16) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] 19) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] The First Amendment of Article 123 of the Constitution states that the administration is united by its establishment and its duties and will be regulated by law. The purpose of the law on the Foundation and Tasks of Ministrys 7/9/1984 and 3046 is to establish ministries in order for public services to be conducted in a regular, rapid, efficient, efficient and economic way, as well as to regulate the basic and responsibilities of the organization, task and authority, which must be observed in regulations, "Idare is one with its organization and its duties. This integrity cannot be broken in determining the duties and powers of the organization. An effective administration, labour department, control and coordination in the organisation and organisation of ministries is essential. The execution of the same and similar services or tasks by a single ministry or a responsibility is essential to preventing the waste of forward capacity and resources." It is expressed. In the 13-year period of AKP rule, the drafting of the organization's laws brought to the TBM has not been prepared in accordance with these principles. How can public goods be sold, staffed, out of contract laws and budgets, and how to avoid control, and how to serve those who have failed to fulfill their obligations instead of improving public administration and preventing resource waste? In particular, the regulations made with bags of laws and NGOs do not have adequate technical equipment, and their mistakes, loss of rights, and so on are needed to change again after some time. Most of the agency's laws have been completely free from the principle of unity and integrity, destroying basic balances, damaging equality, causing injustice. It has led to the transition of duty and authority among institutions, a waste of capacity and resources. The agency's laws also destroyed wages and employment regimes. The individual arrangements have caused the balance of wages between institutions and titles to deteriorate, the control system has been watered down, the desired benefit from the audit has been made unacceptable. With exceptions to the agency's laws, objective rules in public service have been stretched out and the path of favourability has been opened. The application of contractual, exceptional, and temporary staff, which allows public employment with a profitable understanding, has been expanded, and has been cut off from exceptions. That way, the employment regime is broken. The amendments to the Agency's law are based not on functional necessity, but on the understanding of liquidating the staff. A comprehensive liquidation of central and rural agencies, which are not limited to high-level tasks, has been completed to the level of manager and chief. As a result, regulations made in the organization's laws have not been acted according to the principles and principles set out in Law 3046, which regulate the principles of integrity and equality provided by the Constitution. Figures, tasks, powers, and responsibilities have emerged in a lot of different ways in which they can be used, rights for employees, and applications to be applied. For these reasons, the Constitution and framework 3046 of amendments to the laws of the organization will be in place of the investigation into the Law and Law technique, the prevention of responsibility and duty, the removal of inequalities related to employees' homework and social rights, the removal of employees through agency law, and the establishment of staffing by law enforcement, in this way, and the investigation of judicial control over public administration, and the examination of the structural problems related to public administration. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Violent storm and tornado in Demre district of Antalya Because of this, our producers and citizens in the region were victimised, the most damaged were Manavgat, Serik, Aksu, Kumluca and Demre districts, where our farmers' work was destroyed for almost a year, with nearly 800-acres in addition to greenhouses destroyed in Demre alone. Due to this disaster in Demre district of Antalya, we propose and demand that Parliament's investigation be opened under the 98th, 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution, in order to determine the damage caused by the people and producers and to find solution proposals. [[Antalya]] [[Slap]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Denizli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 13) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[Sivas]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks will be held on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened at the appropriate time. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 22/12/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. On October 31, 2016, Diyarbakır MP Mr. Sibel Yiğitalp and his friends suggested that the parliamentary inquiry, which was submitted to the Turkish Parliament to determine the conditions for the health of sick prisoners who are unable to spend their lives in prison, should be read in Thursday's unification of 22/12/2016, in the same history of the talks. Peoples' Democratic Party will speak first in favour of the group's proposal, Müsh MP Burcu Çelik. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0100par0180	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all first. I've made numerous promises from this bench about the human rights violations of the prison for sick prisoners, and I've made this point in a manner of speaking. My party has done a lot of really extensive work on this subject so far, and it will continue to work. Because even now, there are over 1,000 patients and prisoners in prison who are watching us and waiting for us to solve this chronic problem, and of whom 320 are heavily ill and convicted. What do you mean, he's sick and he's under arrest? It means he's at the point of death. Dear friends, I'm looking at the hall now, and unfortunately the hall probably doesn't care very much about this important issue, which is almost empty, but there are thousands of people who are watching us right now and waiting for this Parliament to take responsibility and solve this problem. As a member of the Human Rights Review Commission, we've visited the prisons many times with all the party groups, and we've encountered countless patients we've seen, interviewed, contacted. I assure you, some of them are lying in bed watching us, some of them hearing us, just trying to understand with their eyes, some of them seriously ill waiting for their last days, dear friends. What does Parliament do? He's just listening to the speeches here. Dear friends, we don't just have to tell you this in advance, we have to find a solution to this problem. Dear friends, what does this mean, now, that the patient is in prison? The sick prisoner has two identities: first, a prisoner's identity; and second, a patient's identity. According to the prison I.D., he's the one who's been forced to stay in prison in some way due to the law order. The other is the patient's identity, dear friends, which makes it necessary to provide medical care and treatment conditions for treating health problems. The condition of the sick prisoners imprisoned in Turkey is a bleeding wound for us. Unfortunately, prisons have become a sign of a method of intimidation within the system of punishment that cannot escape the logic of torture. Although there are serious disturbances in prisons, they are still being held, as if by these prisoners and a false policy, they are being subjected to torture throughout the process. Given the circumstances of the execution in which the sick are held within the process, we can safely say that the torture has been carried a little higher and higher. Dear friends, after the meetings we've had, together with members of the party groups, yes, we can discuss this problem as a matter of over-party, politics, political expectations and anxiety, but when we bring the problem here, we can't solve it. But our people know very well that this is the solution to all kinds of problems, but we're far from it. We have to accept that, dear friends. In addition, because of the right to health now, which cannot be considered independent of life, the reflection of the patient's identity makes it necessary to create the medical conditions necessary to keep a person alive, but without a guardian. In oppressive regimes, the mandatory habitat of imprisonment identity is often in conflict to mature the proper medical conditions required by the patient's identity. So we're going to hold someone prisoner, hold them for life, and therefore, unfortunately, we're going to prevent them from taking advantage of their health care. Now, of course, the country is in a very chaotic environment. Look, there was a consensual for sick prisoners, and immediately, over 300 patients were to be evacuated without delay. What happened? The Coroner's Office can't stay in the prison. It can stay in the prison overnight, within a few days. Now, after July 15th, especially as I'm looking into these arrests, arrests and detentions at institutions, I'm learning that nearly 100 people from the Forensic Medical Association have been taken into custody, who are responsible for these reports, have been expelled from their profession, and have been arrested. So I'm guessing you've all come up with a minimum idea of whether these reports really reflect the truth or not. Dear friends, I can give you a large number of examples, very, but especially recently, I would like to share with you a sample: the chronic diabetic patient in Manisa Type E Prison, Hasan Ertugrul, who died on October 21, 2016 in Manisa State Hospital, where he was removed from pneumonia. About two weeks before he lost his life, Ertuğrul was taken to the hospital due to a sugar coma, and was given medication after his treatment and sent back to prison. Later, when he was sick again from pneumonia, the prison administration -- our valued people and the public should hear it very well -- had just taken him last week. He refused to send Ertugrul to the hospital. Ertuğrul, who was taken to the hospital when his condition grew heavy, died at Manisa State Hospital because he had not been interfered in time, dear friends. Now, there's a point to highlight this issue again: we have to put aside all policies, all political concerns, everything; we have to find a solution to this problem. Soon there will be news of death from the prisons, and we will have to remove the coffins, the funeral bags, from those prisons. I'd like to rephrase the fact that this voice, this request, please, should be well understood by all parties, dear friends. Now, you know, the CPT recently visited, visited and filed a report on the prisons in Turkey. And here he clearly reflected in his report of human rights violations in prisons. Let's re-emerge immediately by visiting the prisons together, where there is severe negligence in the case of the sick prisoners and prisoners. Let's set up a committee today and visit the prisons and identify the sick prisoners ourselves. Let's go together and decide together. Let's set up a commission here, and let's find these sick prisoners together and establish our conditions, and let's be a solution before we hear any more of the news of death before it's too late, dear friends. Now, there have been a lot of political operations recently. One of them is Mr. Ahmet Turk, whom we treasure very much. You know, he's been arrested, even though he has a very risky condition. Under the circumstances, dear friends, it's impossible for him to stay in prison. I would like to remind you of Mr. Turk's historic statement: "I have entered and not entered; how will this blood stand, how will it be resolved, and how will this blood stand?" I would like to present the word of Parliament to the attention of Parliament. It is for him to say the most terrible thing. He's done his part, but we, the people out there, the human rights advocates, the law advocates, we can't make a single comment that he's still in prison despite all the rights violations I just stated in my speech. We can't hear a word from any party about these arrests. Dear friends, we all need law, no party distinctions, no distinctions. I say we all put our hands on the stone and show a reflex against this responsibility, dear friends, for the immediate end of this unjust attitude, for the evacuation of sick prisoners. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0101par0194	Thank you, Mr. Steel. The People's Democratic Party will first speak against the group's proposal, Mr. Ruhi Ersoy of Osmaniye. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0102par0198	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I bow before our martyrs with respect. Before making the assessments on the proposal, it is necessary to understand and explain very well what it means to the Turkish nation, how the Fırat Shield, which is the overall agenda of the General Assembly's entry today, is important to the Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, without realizing that the ruling opposition has passed through Turkey's intensive care conditions, and in these extraordinary conditions, we have to demonstrate the necessity of acting with the spirit of mobilisation not only in words but in practice and action in all areas. As of today, Mr. President of the National Movement Party, I would like to offer you a very careful public statement prepared by Mr. State Gardener, and I would like to suggest that the blind must read it. From there, it is imperative that the national unity and unity and the nation's will, against the operation of the Firat Shield, take back as much public support as in the fight against the PKK in Turkey, as in the fight against the PKK. The Turkish soldier did not go there under normal circumstances; he went from the Persian Gulf to the Mediterranean, in the form of cantons, in order to remove those who were called the Kurdish state, to prevent terrorist activities of those who abused the Turkish people and were a great danger to humanity, and then to remove them from there. The responsibility of history has always given Turk this task, and the Turk has done it. The Turkish soldier is there today with the same responsibility. It's our job to do enough work to get public support for what the Turkish Armed Forces went there for in Operation Firat Shield, which falls on politics, which falls on the government. Look, there's a situation that we've all seen, about the Syrians, about the citizens who were guests in Turkey, there was a great deal of tolerance in the public, but now, when you've taken action from thin to thin, the Syrian people will come to this country, they'll have a rose, the state will look at them, they'll laugh at them, they'll laugh at them, they'll laugh at them, they'll have a lot of it on the beach, they'll have a lot of it in the club, they'll have a lot of it, they'll have a very painful experience in the area of Mersin. There is no such thing, but there is no such thing as a matter of Turkish national security of the Firat Shield against those who want to pump this perception into public opinion, and today in Ankara, there is a need to be allowed to act peacefully within the borders of the Republic of Turkey today, and it must be stressed that it must continue until after El Bab to Afrine and Menbic. And in relation to local elements in the region and the Turkmen vein in that region, these local forces need to be in a buffer state in that area. We as the Nationalist Movement Party said, yes, we did, right; the first warning about the Syrian buffer was made by the president of the MHP, correct, but we are doing politics based on the fact that there is no day in the Turkish state where we can go through the book of the past and ask for the account of today's situation, a crisis in the Turkish state, a chaos within the community at any time. First, my country and my nation, then my party and me. We realize that we are living in the days of the fundamental test, not the so-called test. The National Movement Party Group is acting with this consciousness, including MPs, and especially Mr. President, showing the maturity of all agencies of the National Movement Party, which feeds and supports consciousness, to act with the same sensitivity. Dear lawmakers, today, there are people in prison who are victimized, who are sick, who are really, in the need of being human, who are having a hard time carrying their disease identity and the identity of a prisoner together, that's true. I wish them well first. In this regard, a number of talks have been made on the grounds of applications to the Prison Review Subcommittee. I believe, in the name of the ruling party group, the commissioner of this Commission, the friend will tell you all about it. As we evaluate this, we need to know and remember the fact that prison culture, prison culture, dungeon culture, is as old as human history, and it has created a culture of many different kinds of philosophy texts, mythic texts, and songs of genius on the concepts of dungeons, prisons, prisons, prisons. This is the practice of humanity from a very early time when society is not adapting to the general practices of the state and is condemned to rehabilitate and then reintegration into society by those who are outside social norms and legal boundaries. I saw the dungeon of Aleppo Castle (Aleppo Castle) when I was traveling in those fine days and doing a cultural event, as the term of being thrown into the dungeon was something that caught my attention in the first place, and I saw the dungeon of Aleppo Castle (Aleppo) and there was a gap from above, and the prisoners were thrown down into the dungeon, and different needs were removed from there. Now, from being thrown into prison, from being imprisoned, almost at the comfort of a hotel, to a point where the standards of life are dictated by basic human needs. I mean, kill the hero, don't deny his rights. Along with what we've seen in place, the state of the Republic of Turkey is making a special effort at the standards of human rights and law and at the point of prison comfort. So I'm not limiting it to today's government, it's a savings, so it's as far as it goes. But the state's most determined attitude, of course, will appear within practice, to those who, in a way, build a territory of political backyards, ideology, and camping. Now, we, friends who grew up in the nationalist, archipelago movement, have heard a lot about the prison tradition in their environment, not from their relatives, not the first-degree prisoner, but from their country brothers. We are children of a culture that turns dungeons into stone madrassas, prisons into schools. Of course, we heard stories of mothers, sisters, wives who were suffering at the prison door. He lives in the nationalist, international movement today as an institutional identity of our imprisoned stone madrassali brothers, along with his veterans' memories of prison. Despite their standards and their tortures, despite the drafty fences in the C-5©s, their peaceful attitude and behavior with their own government is truly, in the name of mankind, an example for the state, for the nation. Here you go, in Diyarbakir Prison, people were fed feces. Had it not been for Diyarbakır Prison, there would not have been a mountain. If I had been in Diyarbakır Prison, then why didn't those who were persecuted in Mamak? Why could they not see that they could evolve from there to a different place, with a strong and virtuous attitude in these matters? Here, of course, I'm not talking about absolute, indisputable obedience to state authority. Of course, there are negatives, there are shortcomings, there are all sorts of negatives where there is a human element, so let's do it together, let's do it with a common conscience. As of today, in these prisons, it's not as natural as the situation of prisoners in a truly urgent and vital position, in a place where they can't meet their basic needs, in a place where they can't be seen by the Commission on conscience and humanity, and, of course, by the legal grounds and authority units, but it shouldn't be converted into a field of abuse, an ideological backyard. It's not a one-sided approach, as the President of the period used his authority, but a sincere approach, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0103par0209	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. Peoples' Democratic Party will speak in favour of the group's proposal second and final, Mr Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0104par0213	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're going through a period where human life is not very important, so I don't want to give numbers here because, unfortunately, human death has become a number, a number in our daily lives. The number of people who have died, lost their lives in the last 18 months -- soldiers, police, civilians -- and in the end, there is no measure taken by this Assembly. Just yesterday, 16 soldiers were killed in El Bab. He lost his life. In a country where 16 soldiers are martyred, lost their lives, life stops there, but we live as if nothing had happened, even living in parliament. Following the announcement yesterday, the Constitutional Commission was active and our CHP member friends made an offer in the Constitutional Commission, saying, "Let's have a moment of silence." So it's symbolic, it's a memorial, and there's a constitutional debate going on. The majority of the Justice and Development Party didn't even accept this one-minute memorial in terms of the regularization of deaths, the death, the loss of life in the Constitutional Commission, not even a moment's silence in memory of the fallen, martyred soldiers, dear friends. Now, in this environment, we're talking sick prisoners. Look, prisons are one of the options in terms of human rights across the world, and they come first. Because it's in your custody, it's under the supervision of the state, and it shows the standard of human rights in an average country. Looking at him, the human rights situation draws a framework all over the world. In Turkey, huh? Yes, so is Turkey, I'm afraid. Prisons are at the top of environments where traditionally human rights has been violated most severely. Especially in Turkey. And in recent years, it's been very, very severe, and in the last year, after July 15th, there have been systematic human rights violations in prisons. And because of these violations -- I counted just now -- 35 people died, killed themselves in a citizen's prison, ended their lives, died suspiciously, after July 15th. I'm just giving you numbers, I mean, they have names, they have lawyers, they have cops, they have teachers, they have regular people. I mean, the prisons aren't so rosy and it's a sign for all of Turkey. According to the records at the moment, there are close to 960 prisoners in prisons, and 331 are on the verge of death. They all have separate stories, and Law 5275, unfortunately, involves a lot of difficult regulations about them. The 16th article selects the Forensic Medical Association as the sole expert on the impartial and independent Forensic Medicine Institution, the reports they receive from their hospitals are not valid, and they are waiting for months in line with the Forensic Medical Association. And due to the fact that the Coroner's Office is not neutral and independent, reports are not coming out, and many people are waiting in prison for their deaths. In recent years, especially in the last 15 years of the Justice and Development Party, death in prisons has increased, especially in terms of disease, 400 percent. This is what you can do when we took over Turkey, the current 50,000 in prisons, so now it's up to 200,000, and if the death toll is 50, it's normal to go up to 200. But in a normal democratic country, in a country that respects human rights, no human being should die in prisons for any reason, especially the disease. Look, the European Court of Human Rights also has a decision: Gülay Cetin, Turkey's decision in 2013. Due to the lack of access to the hospital and for this reason, he sentenced Turkey to torture bans, Article III and Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights in 2013. Did Turkey make that decision? No, he didn't. There are dozens of examples like this in Turkey, just like in the state of emergency, where they will have to ask Turkey for an answer from your government, because of the application to the European Court of Human Rights, because of the deaths in Diyarbakır, because of the deaths in Tyre, because of 35 applications. In the near future, very recently, because of the deaths in prison, they will have to ask for an answer from your government, and unfortunately they will not be answered by you, and they will not be answered by you. Dear friends, we are visiting prisons, and indeed, there are many prisoners and prisoners in a situation that is incompatible with human dignity, and there are people we know before we go to prison. There are a lot of journalists, I won't count their names here one by one, but the people who are sitting at these times who are having trouble making appointments, who he's hinting that if his name comes up in his column, he might become a deputy, and he's got a lot of patients, but there's no one person, not a congressman, especially the members of the Justice and Development Party, who have shown loyalty to their friends and friends in one way. Patients, they shouldn't be arrested; they shouldn't be arrested; in my opinion, as a lawyer, but not even people who are looking at them with their credentials at this time have shown loyalty in a single word, not a word. I'm going to visit the people we know, and even though the minister blames us, I'm going to keep going. It's been said a while ago, look, there's Ahmet Turk, who was a legislator in the 15th, 16, 18, 19, 23rd and 24th, and I didn't say a couple of semesters at this time, the mayor of a city, the battery in the heart of a city, the battery in the heart of a city, when his heart stops, the battery comes in, the battery comes in. He was appointed trustee to the Metropolitan Municipality, arrested four days later. Now, there used to be real judges, you know, looking at his condition, no doubt about running away, no doubt about blacking out evidence, looking at his age, looking at his illness, not sending him to prison. But you created such a state of judgment that you created a state of judgment that created hostile judges who didn't care about even the human condition at the bottom, enemy judges. You created a citizen judge, a prosecutor's culture, who looked at him as an enemy, didn't see him as a human being, didn't see him as a citizen, and was left to rot in a dungeon under orders. Look, I wrote this ten years ago, before I became a congressman, about 90 generations of children and judges. You created such a culture of judgment, such a culture of judgment. If Ahmet didn't put Turk in prison, you created judges who would have been arrested for his arrest, creating an environment like this. There are dozens of examples like this, we'll question them. Now, you've brought a draft of the Constitution. In the 9th article of the Constitution, you will write the independence of the judiciary beside it. ▪ Is the judgment neutral in writing, as it is independent now, is it possible? It won't happen again. Why? Because of your arrogance, because of your arrogance. Look, all our citizens in prisons are our virtues, no matter who they are, no matter what their crime. Look, the legislature is an honor. It is an honor to be in this House, which is hardly established. With this honor and honor, it's up to us to take care of the most vulnerable, the most wronged, but we're doing it. There's not a single step taken in this House. I hope a conscience listens to this, and after this conversation, he takes a step forward in the matter of prisoners who are imprisoned and imprisoned. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0105par0225	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. People's Democratic Party will finally speak against the group's proposal, Mr. Fatma Benli, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Benli.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0106par0229	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a promise to express my views on HDP's group proposal. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly. First of all, our basic and primary principle regarding prisoners and prisoners is that anyone who is deprived of freedom should be treated with respect for human rights as required by human rights. The health of prisoners, or prisoners, is also a valuable issue in this regard. As a result, in Turkey, 274,000 people are diagnosed with cancer in just one year, and in just one year, 74,000 of our people die from cancer-related causes. Now, at this point in Turkey, in our country, where hundreds of thousands of people are suffering from diabetes, cancer, or even more severe diseases, it's not something that can be considered to be a bee from these diseases in our 80 million-dollar country, especially during the long-term execution. This requires special work for those who are already sick, or who are already sick, or who are already in prison for committing crimes while they are disabled, or especially those who are in prison for long periods of execution. At this point, Turkey has to make many different arrangements. It was already our obligation because governments have to take the necessary measures to ensure that their citizens, everyone -- more accurately -- can carry out body and mental health. Other than that, he does not have to make any distinctions when he fulfills his obligation, so he must take the necessary measures regardless of whether he is in or out, whether he is in or out of prison, whether he is in or out of prison. For this reason, Turkey is already implementing both legal regulations, and in 2009, it is striving to address problems in the field with different protocols in the field, such as double protocols with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Interior in 2011. First, the state must provide them with a free health care system so that prisoners can also have access to health care. Their health care and medical expenses are covered by the Ministry of Justice. First of all, when prisoners and prisoners enter criminal execution institutions, first admission examinations are made, and their medical reports are being filed. First of all, the practice of family medicine in prisons for individuals who can't go to hospitals has been initiated because, you know, there was a medical procedure in prisons, and since doctors who work in their prisons aren't enough, family medicine has been established to create an outside control mechanism. Now, when the first admissions aren't enough, when that first medical step in prison isn't enough, those who are sick are being transferred to hospitals outside. And for that, if the doctor or the doctor is not present, it's only for the supervisor to approve. First of all, the prison ambulances or ambulances called from 112 have been sent to hospitals in case of an emergency, in case of an emergency. Now, rehabilitation centers have already been set up to prevent inmates from going to hospitals all the time. So our type-R closed prison system is the system, where people who can't stay in prison alone, especially those who are waiting for a report from Forensic Medicine, are at these rehabilitation centers, so that while they're waiting, they're also being treated because of their illness while they're being executed, but that's not enough. We've got Metris type R Prison now, Menemen. There's another one in Elazığ. And because it's not enough, they're getting help from public hospitals. Studies at the Ministry of Health in particular under the three-way protocols are also being made to prevent the creation of prison wards of hospitals, campus hospitals, and to prevent the escape of incoming prisoners, to eliminate the risk of security, to ensure the safety of doctors and other employees in the hospital, but also to ensure that those prisoners and prisoners have access to their health rights. In fact, what we're having a problem with here is that people who can't get enough treatment by going to this kind of rehabilitation center or going to public hospitals in prison, and who can't actually stay in prisons because of their illness, severe illness, or disability, and who are not considered to be a severe and concrete threat to public safety. In 2013, the EC PARTY has already made legal arrangements. You know, in the Constitution, there was already an arrangement in which my husband, who, by our president, could not be found in prison for illness or disability, was to be pardoned, to postpone the execution of fines, in which case, in fact, there was a special arrangement to get these people out of the medical examiner's office or hospitals. So far, in fact, the number of people who have applied to this is not actually possible because I am seriously ill or because I am disabled. The number of people who say that I am not in prison is 8,152, and 800 of them have been positive, which 28 are terrorist criminals. This suggests that Forensic Medicine did not act in any way with other political debates other than the health criteria when making decisions. The other 2,196 have rejected state hospitals, decided that a person could remain in prison despite his illness, 1,064 have been rejected by the Medical Examiner. This, as I said, is an important example of the fact that forensic medicine alone does not reject people's applications due to medical examinations. In fact, what we need to think about here, perhaps, is that, after the coroner's report, although there is a medical report on whether or not this person's severe illness or disability prevented him from being in prison, it is also being investigated for whether there is a severe and concrete danger to public safety, which has again set the criteria for creating danger for the security of the previous community. Maybe that's what we need to evaluate, whether or not it will ever happen, which has previously been done by the Turkish Human Rights Foundation and different organizations, and they've done evaluations with NGOs and public institutions, and they've been visited by rehabilitation centers. What we need to look at is whether or not this rule will be applied in a clear and concrete way. How many people have been applied, and even though he received reports from the medical examiner's office, no, this person must not leave prison because he poses a threat to public safety. You need to look at the criteria for making a decision. The number of people that have been decided so far is only 11; one of them is the organisation, two are the terrorist crimes, eight are the criminal crimes, and the fact that this decision has already been made about only 11 people in a numerical sense in cases of severe danger. Also, when you look at one file at a time, we see that a large number of these are people who have been sentenced to aggravated life sentences, but the aggravated life sentence of a person is not a single condition that prevents him from going out. You're looking at his files one by one. For example, one of them dropped a bomb and lost two hands because the bomb went off in his hand.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0107par0239	Ergin Aktaş.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0106par0240	When we get this person out, it's virtually impossible to determine if there's a chance that he's a live bomb. One of them is going to send a threatening letter to his wife, and when I get out, I'm going to kill you. The one who says, "We know a lot of cases in prison that have gone on partial leave and killed his wife. Now, the presence of this case is very comfortable for us. No, let's take this person out anyway: it doesn't give us the opportunity to say, I'm afraid. One of them, although bedridden, is a drug lord, whose illness, unfortunately, does not prevent him from running that criminal organization, which I think is the most concrete example of those 11 people, is Nihat Iliman. Nihat Iliman is a man who has been documented that he cannot stay in prison with his medical examiner's report, but only 15 days after he gets out, he shoots someone else, and when he goes back to prison, he goes back to forensic medicine, and he gets a report that he can't stay inside. But in this case, there's a public safety threat. Therefore, the lack of such a concrete and sharpness of the issue, the lack of a very comfortable decision to make, requires work on it. After all, each individual's right of life requires special work. The work on this is already under way, but we already have a subcommittee under the House's roof regarding the issue of the parliamentary investigative commission report. Under the Human Rights Review Commission is the Subcommittee of Prisoners and Criminal Rights to assess this particular issue. Therefore, I would like to say that we would vote against a separate commission in the matter that requires the establishment of a bilateral research commission, and I salute the High Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0108par0245	Thank you, Mr. Benli. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0109par0247	Mr. President, I'm going to have to correct a matter that was stated in the precious witness' speech. One of the examples is Ergin Aktaş, the man who was cut off both hands, and the prisoner. It's been discussed here, and there's one thing we've forgotten, Mr. Benli, that the Minister of Justice can't stay in prison by the Ministry, that he can't stay in prison by law. This person is currently in solitary confinement. If it's about him going out and hurting the public, if that's how you explain it, then you have to explain to the public how this person can stay in a solitary cell alone with what law and what practice he can stay in.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0110par0248	We're gonna put him at the wedding table?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0109par0249	I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0111par0250	Thank you. Congressmans, I will submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume our talks with the 1st ranked Sünei Property Act (1/699) and the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In the past session, the votes of Article 341, which was considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, were completed in chapter four of the Bill of Law. We will now begin the interviews of section five. The fifth chapter includes Article 113 and Article 141. İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu will speak on behalf of the Milliyetci Movement Party Group on the fifth chapter. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0112par0265	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the fifth part of Sunei Property Law Bill 341. I salute the General Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. Unfortunately, Turkey is going through a chaotic process, and the Turkish nation is suffering disaster after disaster. The Turkish state is under siege of collective terror, while our beloved nation is in hate and rage against the treacherous attacks of terrorism. While the sadness of the foul attack at Beşiktaş was still very new, the terrorists who emerged in Kayseri have shot our nation from the hearthole. Following him, the assassination of the Russian Federation ambassador in Ankara is aimed at damaging Turkish-Russian relations, mixing Turkey and eliminating Middle East. Under these conditions, the fight against terrorism must be carried out on the whole country's coast and as a total nation with the spirit of national solidarity and sacrifice. In this scope, our security forces have shown extraordinary determination to completely eradicate the resources of terror that breeds on holy land and beyond the border. Our military operations across the border are no doubt only aimed at ensuring our national security, but the Turkish nation is also paying heavy prices while defending its existence and sovereignty rights. On the 120th day of Operation Firat Shield yesterday, the testimony of 16 sons of the nation has broken our hearts once again. I pray to God for mercy on our martyrs, for their families, for their comrades, for the patience and condolences of our beloved nation, for our wounded children who are still under treatment. We're not just dealing with bloody terrorists, we're dealing with seven duvets, a thousand-year-old brotherhood, and they're attacking our country in every way in order to break our law and to refer to our national existence. Turkey must be united by a national awakening from 7 to 70, and repel treason by hand, so that it does not give to those who take advantage of every opportunity to set up a trap for Turkey. The Panzer of terror, of course, is to strengthen the state of unity, solidarity, and embrace. In this scope, political and ideological differences must be put in second place and the common heritage and trusts of the Turkish nation must be defended together, leaving artificial disputes behind. Because our country is at a time when it is imperative that everyone act in a sense of national responsibility, leaving small political accounts aside. It is also true that threats and risks are not only caused by terrorism, and should not be overlooked that events and global economic straits can make Turkey's economy even more fragile. Dear lawmakers, the bill we're discussing is gathering and renewing legislation on testing property. In this way, we consider the bill to contribute to the development of Turkish industry and to boosting our industrialist's competitiveness. Developments in information and communication technologies through liberalisation of the movement of goods and capitals have opened the way for the inputs used in production to be provided from other countries with the right price and quality. In other words, the quality size of the product, such as the cost size of industrial production, together with the diversity of products, improvement in the product and technological development, is the main element of success in competition. It is no longer possible to achieve economic goals with a production structure that is not strong in innovation and technology infrastructure and is not based on the manufacturing industry. In this framework, the importance of new sectors and products, which are dense, high inclusion value, can encourage technology and will reduce our dependence on exports. Turkey's right to sound property requires effective protection. In our country, the basics of the intellectual rights system are mainly based on the 1800s. The first modern regulations are the Law of Ideas and Arts, dated 5 December 1951, and the Law of Brands, dated 12 March 1965. Turkey has made legal and institutional breakthroughs, especially after its membership in the customs union and the World Trade Organization, but has shown parallel improvements in the world. The lack of sufficient development of the idea rights system and the lack of expected social and economic benefits depends on the lack of understanding of the meaning and importance of the idea and the lack of a comprehensive strategy document, depending on this. On the other hand, it appears that a long-term strategy could not be established, independent of conjunctural changes, and could not be introduced, despite the need for co-direction of economics, industry, science and technology, culture, education, investment and foreign trade policies. Our election statement as the National Movement Party states that the development of the national innovation system, particularly the development of the RD share, the commercialisation of information, the institutionalisation of innovation and entrepreneurialism, the spread of Turkish branded and patented products around the world, will enable scientific and technological research to transform into production and social benefit through innovations and patents, depending on this. It has also been stressed that the idea property rights system will be activated to protect patents, commercial brands, industrial design and copyrights, that the RD results will be expanded to export to industry and production, and that private sector investments in RD and technology will be supported. Dear lawmakers are the Turkish Patent Institute, established in 1994 under the Constitution 544, the basic institutional infrastructure of our testing rights system. From its establishment, the institute has developed quickly, technically and physically, one of the active institutions of Europe in terms of its application, the amount of processing and activity. However, it is an important infrastructure problem for the rights system to be largely dependent on foreign authorities to investigate and study registration applications in terms of content. Because of this problem, which has two dimensions, including expert and technical infrastructure failure, costs are rising in areas that need to be studied. The issue of the test rights will increase the economy's international competition for the production of products in accordance with high quality standards, the creation of Turkish property image and world-renowned Turkish brands. Turkish industry must be aimed at an advanced production centre in Eurasia, with an international competitive, sustainable production structure facing exports, technology-enhancing, high added value, based on domestic resources, providing employment. Increased share of medium and high-tech sectors in production and exports should be endeavored to ensure a high quality of integration through design, branding and effective marketing in relatively low-tech sectors. The manufacturing industry needs to reach an international competitive position that produces and uses advanced technology, uses maximum domestic resources, and provides effective input supply. To this end, entrepreneurial development and the activities of the COBIs for innovation, efficiency, marketing, co-operation and increased employment should be supported. The position and location of the proposed intellectual property academy in the hierarchy has not been cleared. There are regulations in the application that can produce difficulties in terms of opportunities, as well as that would lead to the transition of power and therefore conflict. This framework does not include academia and any staff that can be assigned to the Turkish Patent Institute's Sunei Property Rights Education Centre, which is stated to serve within the academy. Dear lawmakers, in order to address the structural problems of Turkish industry, the world's development is primarily based on sustainable international competitiveness to industry... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the policies that will be won must be implemented effectively with the cooperation of the public, private sector and university sectors. With that thought, I wish the law to be good for our country, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0113par0277	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Ağrı MP Diryet Taşdemir will speak. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0114par0281	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you the letter from our Co-Chair, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, who has actually been held hostage in Kandira Prison since November 4th to share with our General Assembly and with our people. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, the soldiers, police, civilian citizens who have been killed in the bombings in the past few weeks, ask for mercy and immediate healing for the wounded. I curse the violence and those who cause it. I also condemn the political understanding that separates our common pain, destroys the reunification ground, puts political labels on our sincere conscience and determines their intention to overcome these difficult times with solidarity and democratic constructiveity. I'm afraid I'm speaking directly to the General Assembly today because my right to direct politics is mortgaged. In this country, where oppression and antidemocratic practices have always been direct, it can only be indirect to use the democratic voice. While I was writing this call, the number of arrested MPs with co-chairs of my party had reached 12. The number of arrested party managers was also up to 3,000. There was almost no opposition out there. But the government is still not satisfied, it still does anger politics, and it pours its anger on HDP, who has no power but his word, his principles, and his aim. The power that can't solve the problem itself, which has become the source of the problem, is inventing another problem center, where it's being stoned to death. The imprisonment of 12 HDP people today is the state of the operation to destroy and purge our party under the roof of parliament. This operation, which has been carried out publicly by millions of citizens, by their will, by their right to choose, is nothing more than the completion of the coup d'états left unfinished. If the coup attempt was successful, maybe we'd be in these prisons with a lot of congressmen in Congress. If he thinks he can defend his responsibility through political lynching and dispossession campaigns against my party, the power that has blamed everyone but himself for what happened to the House in the last year, he is wrong. I ask: What happens when the bill of the country's stalemate is cut off to HDP, when the elections are taken under our feet, when the hunger of the new court coalition is covered with lynching and hatred rituals? Is the truth evaporating? Look, we're still here, and we're more right in the face of persecution, of captivity than we were before. It must be remembered that all the previous governments, when our oppressed peoples began to take power in central politics, did not do everything they could to vaporize this power and the truth. But we're here again, despite the most severe attacks, the casualties of a party, and I assure you, one by one, whether we're locked up or not, we'll come back, even if we're slaughtered, we'll come back stronger. Because we're not just one person. We are the emerging political reality of our people. Those who fear that a people's dreams, their wishes, their own moldy political status quo, can't change that fact. This is also the crisis of the TBMM due to a representation crisis. However, a whole parliamentary mechanism, especially the presidential institution, acts as if there is no such crisis of functioning and legitimacy. Not everything can be treated as normal in a parliament where 12 MPs who have been denied all political rights are detained while the immunity of the law stands in the middle. There is no mention of a democratic representation mechanism in an environment where the country is governed by the State of Emergency and the KHK. Moreover, the claim of a parliament crippled like this to change the Constitution cannot be realistic. The amendment to parliament's agenda may be a compulsion, however, if conditions do not change democratically. On the other hand, both in the whole of the Constitutional debates and in all the political operations and negotiations that should include four parties, HDP's exclusion has resulted in a head start. Sadly, those who claim to bring a rescue model to Turkey are also trying to destroy the existing representation of the parliamentary model. The love of taking all authority and authority in one hand is liquidating the representation of the Parliament model, where this country owes its good and bad existence. The Parliament, which is not developed forward, is now drifting back, narrow to HDP and democracy dynamics. The proposed constitution is compared to the kings of the 20th century, the sultan's organs, the councils of consultations in their dictatorships. Sovereignty ceases to be an unconditional, unconditional nation. The entire parliamentary component, which advocates the constitution of the presidency, looks us in the eye and says it's good to bind the nation's sovereignty to one person without looking at what's written on the wall. He now unites the highest representation of the nation in one person. It doesn't matter what they call it, but it's definitely not a democracy. The representative has no monopoly on public representation in the political administration. This entity cannot be destroyed, the responsibility of representation cannot be abused. The deputy is obliged to protect the basic, universal political rights, interests of his citizen who voted for him before his party. Therefore, to approve a regime change that would destroy the citizen's basic political presence and his will is to be misled through the public's proxy. Today, our peoples, who are unable to participate directly in daily politics, are urged to give up their sovereignty. Should we rule over a society, or should one person rule over everything in our name? When the path of a imposed constitutional referendum is opened, or, rather, the only way to the community is left, it will not be called a democratic election, nor will it be supported by the people. Those who have left only one way for our people know this fact. In the conditions of the State of Emergency and heavy pressure, in the midst of bans, censorship, lies, and deaths, can you talk about a fair, legitimate election, voting in an atmosphere where every voice is blocked, locked up, dared to take the alternative route? So, as in the 82 Constitution referendum, the people will not choose today, they will be forced to choose. You have to be free to choose. He's not in this country either. If we insist on democratic politics in Congress today, after all, it's only because we have to win this freedom of choice from our peoples. Of course, even when political freedoms have come to the point of being searched for with candles under this roof, even in representation, it can't just be ours to win the freedoms. If this is not stopped, there will be nothing left to touch or protect under the House's roof in all its habitats. Today we are tried for our political activities and for our words on the stand. Those who fail to speak to HDP are now speaking to us through the courts. The level of power won't be enough for our words, and now he's trying to ask us from above, from the level of the judge's bench. We can't exercise our right to legislature irresponsibility, but the majority of Congress who arrested us seem to be having the most irresponsible and comfortable days in their history. As if our imprisonment, trial, as if it were no shame to the Parliament, as if the nail hadn't been removed, and that everyone but HDP had been sorbetted, and that no one had been subjected to such a thing, we put our troubles on trial, and we have no other responsibility. Those who have carried out the universal fundamental rule of the Constitution and have done the duty of removing our immunity are confident that the independent judiciary will carry out its duty. What should I say? I hope that those who mop up the right of public representation at the gates of the court will have the opportunity to test the independence and credibility of the judiciary as directly as we do. Are they going to say that we're being arrested today, that we're being tried, that we're essentially being relieved of our duties, that tomorrow, the people who referred us to the judiciary were running the country? Those who pave the way for the judiciary's involvement in politics and institutionalize them can't rule out their responsibilities as the main responsible. Despite being considered irresponsible in this vital criteria, it does not harm us, but Turkey's minimum political standards. As for us, we know we're not the first politicians to be captured. Since we weren't born in Congress, we know how to live anywhere but that, to carry on with ourselves and our ideals. But in spite of everything, we do not give up the struggle to make the House a democratic representation mechanism, including our peoples, and unite them. It's our whole struggle to keep the millions from getting what's rightfully theirs in this House. And we're not giving up. Our party will not compromise under any circumstances from Turkey's claim to be a constructive and democratic re-founding force with all its components. I believe all of Turkey will win from this. I salute the board and wish for a work process that serves the free democratic future of our country. We, our co-Chairs, who are once again under arrest, give our respects and greetings to our other leaders and deputies, especially Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ. Again, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0115par0299	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Tacettin Bayır will speak. Here you go, Mr. Ridge.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0116par0303	First, I ask God's mercy on our 16 brave children and patience on their families. Mr. Congress, I'd like to brief the valuable TRT 3 viewers who are watching us at this hour about what's going on here. Right now, while this Parliament is marching on one side, the Constitutional Commission is working hard upstairs, and our valiant Republican People's Party friends are there to resist this Constitution to avoid coming to Parliament. Why are they resisting? Because the period of the blows is still going on. In fact, violating the Constitution and making it in line with the actual situation is a method of impact. This is a proposal on September 12th to give one person the authority that even the March 12th coupgers did not give. In fact, this process was created by a series of blows. First, Prime Minister Davutoglu, elected by the coup d'état, has been overturned. The July 15 coup attempt followed by a joint resistance. But instead of getting a strong democratic alliance out of here, power's authoritarian regime opportunism has emerged. With the coup d'état of July 20th, the state of emergency has been established. Finally, as with each coup, the constitution of the dictatorship is imposed on us to make its own constitution in the coup d'état of July 20th. A president in charge but irresponsible, unresponsive. How? Look, let me explain: this constitution gives the president direct and complete authority to conduct it; the Prime Minister's Office, the Council of Ministers are leaving. The president will appoint or dismiss any minister he wants. The government will depend entirely on the President. For ministers and the government, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey no longer has to vote for confidence. The generic institution to oversee the government is being removed. The ministers will answer only to the President, but the President will not answer to Parliament, nor will Parliament or any other institution have the right to answer. He will be able to organise all of the ministry's public administration with presidential decrees as he wishes; he will establish, raise, remove, appoint, appoint, discharge, regulate disciplinary work, use whatever state authority he has, but he will not answer or be audited. The president, the prime minister and government officials will be able to use all and even more, but his trial will become almost impossible. For the crimes he committed, 600 lawmakers will often ask for an investigation with only 301 signatures, but will be investigated by 360 votes, and will be transferred to the Supreme Court by 400 votes. Do you think that's possible? The same rule applies to vice presidents or ministers' crimes. The investigation of the prime minister and ministers is currently available with 55 MPs, with only 10% of the parliament's signatures. However, the current practice is being sent to the Supreme Court with a simple majority of 276 votes. This arrangement has made both the president's assistants and his ministers almost untouchable and untouchable. To be honest, the rise from 276 to 400 brings to mind: What is this fear? I don't see why that's necessary. If the president is equipped with the powers of the prime minister and ministers and even more, then his criminal responsibility should at least be equivalent to their current responsibilities. You will be president and party president, you will appoint bureaucrats as party heads, you will be head of the National Security Council, you will be head of the Supreme Court of Judges, and you will appoint the Supreme Court of Judges, and the Supreme Court members, and the Supreme Prosecutor, and you will appoint the Attorney General, and you will appoint the MPs, and you will represent the state and the nation's unity. How's that gonna work? There's gonna be law, cuckoo. And you will swear on neutrality. It's the 103th article that regulates the president's oath, and it's standing right there, just like that. How can you be neutral? The presidential election will be held on the same day as the parliamentary election, so that the president, who is the party's president, will also appoint parliamentary candidates and decide to adopt a full-fledged mandate. He will use the presidential decree to enforce the legislature, defunction the parliament, rule the country with presidential decrees; when he wants to, he will have the authority to dissolve the House without any grounds, along with his own choice. While the president can make this decision alone, parliament will be able to terminate the President by 360 votes. In 1924, he will have the dissolution authority that the Assembly did not even give to Ataturk. He'll design the judgment. He will choose six of the 12 members of the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors directly, and you will choose the other six members in parliament. He will say, "You will choose 12 members of the 15 members of the Constitutional Court, who will choose 80 percent of them personally, and you will choose them. That's justice for you! The Supreme Court will single-handedly elect the state's attorney and the attorney general, elect one-quarter of the state's members alone, eliminate the most important element of balance and control, the independent judiciary, and we will be reduced to a state-run parliament with zero control authority, which will be ignored by the people's elected MPs. There's no gene and no vote of confidence. The parliament has no authority to oversee the operations of the ministry or in its mandate when it is established over the government. The terms of the parliamentary investigation have been heavily aggravated, but will be referred to the Supreme Court by 400 votes. The legislature, which is the most important authority of the House, is limited, my friends. The same area opens to the president through a decree, and we no longer need to gather here and issue a decision, Mr. President has the authority to do it alone; veto can also make the same law, which he wants to do, which can be annulled by the President, who, for the most part, has not been able to control it. There are no special conditions necessary for dissolution, so I'm talking about the dissolution of the Parliamentary President, the People's Assembly President, who can dissolve without any conditions. It is up to two-thirds of the vote that parliament takes the President to the election. Friends, this is called building the infrastructure of division. He gives the president the authority to form regional management units, regional structures, regional public institutions and institutions under central administration. This is the preparation for transition to the federation; it opens the way for division. And what happens if this constitution passes? If we create with this constitution, we create a dictator. A dictator who touches everything but is not touched. A strict and authoritarian regime is divided from the democratic regime. No citizen has life, property and legal security. Each person, institution and organization is left to the conscience of one person, a dictator. There are no superiors left to oversee the rulers. Tyranny prevails in government and in the country. One person becomes both the government and the Parliament and the court. Legislation, execution, judgment is one thing. He spends all the money he wants in elections with unlimited covered funds, and he hires bureaucrats and porters to run public institutions and organizations like the mayor of his party's county. He uses all the resources of the government, his plane, his vehicle, to run for office. In the name of this, I make a democratic choice. An ineffective, unauthorized, weak, symbolic Congress emerges. We'll bury the House, we'll bury democracy in history. Finally, for our young martyrs, the earth was ashamed, the water ashamed, washing and burying the spring-scented children. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0117par0314	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0118par0315	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0117par0316	Mr. President, we are not participating in any of the presentations that the valuable speaker has made regarding the Constitutional Amendment. Hususen, we clearly deny the federation the approaches that it aims to divide. Basically, we're negotiating the patent law right now. The Commission also has debates on this constitutional amendment, as it is now in operation, and the Commission will also come to the General Assembly. When he gets here, we'll talk and discuss it.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0119par0318	Why is this bothering you, Mr. Botanci? Why are you uncomfortable with this?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0120par0319	We've agreed to that. There's time for that here at the Commission.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0117par0320	Now, in order for the patent law to be negotiated safely, I'm only agreeing with the record of these opinions to give it a chance. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0121par0322	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0122par0323	Why is Mr. Bostanci disturbed about this?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0121par0324	On behalf of him, Mr. Smarty Aygün will speak for him. No. Mr. Kazim Arlen, Congressman of Denizli. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0123par0328	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love. First of all, I offer my condolences to the families of the 16 martyrs in El Bab, my condolences to our nation, and to those who are injured, and to those who are injured, I wish immediate healing. I'd like to make it very clear that we'll never have this kind of military testimony again and never see it again. My dear friends, I have taken my word for myself in the fifth chapter of the Sunei Property Act. We see that this section covers between Articles 113 and 141. We see in the department that employees' inventions have been evaluated, that they can be patented for service inventions, that rights and adjudications and the employee's rights are organised, that additional and confidential patents are based on agreements, license rights, mandatory licenses, and the end of rights. As we say in each conversation, I also say that today, although there are some flaws in the regulation of this law, we find it positive, and we support it to be passed as soon as possible. These arrangements are important, but I would like to point out that safety, safety of property and lives, and the safety of people at work are more important for the business world. Of course, you can get the laws out; the important thing is that both the failures during the implementation of these laws and the country's immediate normalisation of the fight against terrorism need to be done in the most efficient way, and it needs to be freed from Turkey's terror clamps, because if we don't do that, a continuous chaotic environment in the country is very disturbing to the business world. The terrorist organization is being fought, we'll clean it up. It's said that it's still not the point. The work is being dealt with, and who is the leader, and where is he, and they are certainly not revealed. His political foot is not revealed in both the local sense and the general sense of the situation in parliament. Nothing's said in these areas either. There is a struggle with the light. It is said that ISIS's responsible people within Turkey are still unable to be taken into custody. In Turkey, ISIS is said to have nested and organized in 71 provinces, and it is said that the accession to ISIS is from these provinces, but we see that the necessary research has not been done, has not been uncovered, and has not been brought to justice. Now, that's not enough, we're going to try to clean up ISIS in the Middle East, other than cleaning up ISIS in our own country. There, too, we face many tribulations, and we see that our soldiers are being martyred in a truly meaningless manner. My dear friends, now, in a time of such panic, such problems, you bring up the Constitutional Amendment, a constitutional amendment that is subject to individuals, not to individual, institutional amendments, which does not include changes to the expansion of freedoms and the rooting of democracy, completely bypassing parliament and eliminating the responsibility of parliament here, such as the geneor, eliminating responsibilities such as the government's responsibility, and discussing a amendment that gives a lot of authority to one person. Now, if this change comes, indeed, our current system, our secular, democratic system, our republical system, our regime, will be completely eliminated, a different regime will have come to Turkey, which is absolutely impossible for us to accept. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0124par0339	Mr. President, a promise according to 60...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0125par0340	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0124par0343	Mr. President, at any moment, we are faced with developments that are disturbing our peace of mind, camping society, polarizing business and processes. Now, I've just received word that the road TV has been removed from the satellite by RTÜK for insulting the President. Now, Mr. President, now that he's in hot politics, and there are a lot of court decisions that politicians should be more tolerant of criticism. Here the following times have been written down, it is normal for the President to be judged without insults. Now, I don't understand these gentlemen in RTÜK, so there's no way to understand such a busy, prudish attitude. I mean, I don't know what good it's gonna do to get a TV channel out of the satellite in the defense of Alevi rights, other than setting up a ground for more camping in Turkey. I don't know one more thing: why don't these masters, gentlemen of the RTÜK, and the busybody see the canals that insult Ataturk until morning and evening? I condemn the members of the RTÜK here!
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0125par0349	Is Mr. Smart Moon here? No. Congressmans, the talks on chapter five are now complete. Now, after I've processed the clauses and the motions on the substance in section five, I'm going to submit them to your separate votes. There are two motions on Article 113: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement shall be changed from one third in the 5th joke of the 341th Amendment of the Sunei Property Act. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Ruhi Ersoy Kamil Aydın Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that Article 113 of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mizgin Irgat Surat Taşdemir Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Mr. Mizgin Irgat of Bitlis will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0126par0372	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, as the best law can produce unjust results in the hands of a bad enforcer, the worst law can bring fair results in the hands of good enforcers. The patent law that we're discussing today, aside from the implementations of the AKP government in our recent process, the unlawfulness of our party, I think there's nothing here to conclude, without a debate, without a conclusion, and especially without the freedom of the 12 members of this Assembly. First of all, the freedom of our party's presidents, members of the group, lawmakers, the mayors who are currently in unlawful custody, the hostages, must be provided immediately. I'm not going to go into any Constitutional debates. So I followed the Commission, and I followed the bill. The only thing that has been done under the name "news" is not a change that goes beyond the practice of a single man's regime. So I'm going to express our views on this on other platforms and on this platform. But there's something very important I'd like to share here. Yes, I'd like to share with you what we experienced in Bitlis, my science, among many DBP municipalities. In the local elections held on December 14, 2014, all the mayors of our party, which won the election results of six municipalities in Bitlis, are currently in prison. The mayors of Ahlat, Adiljevaz, Tatvan, and four towns where our party was unable to win are now in charge. This municipality has been appointed trustees in its place at midnight, some at Sunday, and some at 2:00 a.m., as was last night at Yolan City Hall. In other news, we have learned that the city of Samsun City has come to town as a brother and municipality to conduct the work of Bitlis Municipality. As a result of the meeting they had held in Bitlis province, there was a breakthrough in Bitlis, with the experience and resources of Samsun City's municipality, and a new study in Bitlis was discussed in the service of an AKP municipality. How is that a brotherhood, how is that the ruling mentality of the AKP government? So I ask you, if you wanted this brotherhood so badly, why didn't you do it while our mayors were in office, where they were chosen? Were you supposed to send them to prisons to show this brotherhood, and after they were appointed trustees, you saw the needs of Bitlis? It's the only county without an airport. You built a state hospital under the name of the district hospital, miles beyond the county. Over the year, without a hole in our province, let alone the ditch, you have terrorized the region every day, every month, in the name of curfews, curfews. You didn't let our party explain anything. You didn't even allow us to condemn the incident at Antwerp. You can't arrest six of our mayors today, place them in prisons, replace them with trustees, build bridges of hearts with the people of Bitlis. Your disrespect for the people's will, those people's chosen, your insult, our people will never, ever accept. The bridges of the heart with us, the people of Samsun, all of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...of course we're always ready to set it up.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0127par0380	Mr. Irgat, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0126par0381	But I think that the chosen should be done by staying where they were chosen and obeying the law of this people.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0127par0382	Mr. Irgat, your time is up, please...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0126par0383	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0127par0385	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement shall be changed from one third in the 5th joke of the 341th Amendment of the Sunei Property Act. Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Mr. Deniz Depboy will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0128par0397	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Movement Party Group to discuss Article 113 of the Constitutional Property Act. I salute the Holy Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. Before I begin my speech, I ask God's mercy on our soldiers who were killed in the Battle of the Firat Shield, and the immediate healing of our wounded, and the condolences on the families and comrades of our martyrs, and the patience of God. I'm sorry for the head of the St. Turk nation. May God help our soldiers, our policemen, who fight terrorism within and outside our borders. Deputies, the word "terror" is a Latin word, and it means "chilling from fear." Terror, as you can see from its name, feeds on fear, weakness, despair, despair. Terror creates its own group by choosing people who are equivalent to the environment it wants to create. The first stage in the process of becoming a terrorist is the phase in which the individual identity of those who can't raise their self-esteem within the social community, who are having difficulty meeting their values with the community. If we look at this description, it's also possible to understand how, without blinking, there's no value judgment, and maybe, without paying attention to it, there's a lot of people who take people to their death, whether it's a shot or a live bomb, or what kind of weakness they have. The environments where terrorists are raised are environments where the state can't control, and unfortunately, the times when those elected in these acts of terrorism are usually in their teens, when they're still young, when they start brainwashing under 18 years of age. When we look at ▪ We know very well how our children, our young ones, have been brainwashed by such an organization, which, unfortunately, was accepted as a laughing congregation at the time and was not well controlled and not well evaluated by you, and what consequences they brought to our country when they finally became adults. Recently, it is very painful for the Russian ambassador to be killed by someone who was unfortunately on police duty a few days ago. Looking back on his past, we see his connection to this terrorist organization again. Dear lawmakers, control is very important. Every child who has been neglected is either a victim of abuse because of negligence -- which we already see the abuse victims do today -- in the end, the group has done religious and ideological abuse in its day -- or they become abusers of the future. Terror is a deterrent; terrorism is a way of affecting psychological warfare; it aims to spread fear, panic, and insecurity with society through its actions. Fighting terrorism within our borders and beyond our borders is the natural right of the state of the Republic of Turkey. I would love to talk about how rich, scientific, industrially developed society we are in today's bill of testing property, in the context of patents, inventions, in the context of talk about inventions, we have to talk about these kinds of problems. As the National Movement Party, our country's indivisibility, our nation's security, our state's reserve, our sensitivity is high. In addition to our support in this matter, we are meticulously following the process, warning the power as always, this time. Yesterday, you didn't listen to the warnings of our National Movement Party and our leader, Mr. State Gardener, and the conclusion is clear today. I hope that from now on, you'll take our criticism and listen to our suggestions, and we'll never have these days again. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0129par0407	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions in Article 114. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and offer you the necessary provision to change the terms of the statement of Article 114. Kazim lion Tahsin Tarhan Tacettin Bayır The Ancient Durmaz Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Ömer Fethi Güner İbrahim Özdish İrfan Bakr Hilmi Maker Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of Article 114 (4) of Sunei Property Law Act 341 be changed in the form of one. Ruhi Ersoy Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Mit Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1114 of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mizgin Irgat Surat Taşdemir Feleknas Uca Osman Baydemir Sibel Yiğitalp Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. They'll be speaking on the motion, Mr. Siegel Yiğitalp, the Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0130par0438	Mr. President, we're going to talk about trustees again today, because we're going to tell these trustees that they're a coup to the democratic way of life, the democratic way of life, and we're going to be tireless and tireless of the time we've been here. Look, I'll tell you what happened to the trustee who was assigned to Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality today. If you look here first, it's supposed to be Sur City, but what do you have when you look ahead? He's got security, law enforcement. What do you think when you shut this place down, what do you see? He sees it as a police department, he sees it as a police station, he never sees it as a municipal service building. Again, we can show you dozens of pictures like this. This is the Great City. Now, when we close up here, look, what do you see when we close up here? Police Station, Police Station. However, this is the City of Amed, and this is the work of the public in illegal ways, such as creating their own power, by beating their democratic rights, his own will in such a way, which is earned by all kinds of hard work and hard work and hard work, despite all kinds of poor means. The trustee who was appointed to the city hall today, as if it were a very good thing, when he was on such an illegitimate mission, when he was trying to do his duty, he removed the Amed, and he thinks he's doing a great service with it. Now, that's the human horizon, that's the vision. So that's probably the only vision of the trustees assigned there. If you wipe out Amed, and write "Diyarbakir" instead, you think you're going to lose the truth there. Now, the most interesting part is there's a confession the government spokesman made today. He says: "The arrest of the MPs is a source of comfort in society. " Since when does arresting the chosen ones become solaced? Look, who's the consolation of arresting lawmakers, fellas? I'm asking the AKP. How could a government spokesman say such a thing? I mean, whose comfort is it that our friends have been arrested? Who's happy about our arrest? If our arrest is any consolation to anyone, our constituents will rise up and create a self-responsive mechanism. Is it so unfortunate that a sentence can be made with such an informal approach? Doesn't this country have a law, a court, a judgment, a safety? So can you say from here that we, in fact, do not interfere in the judiciary as politics, do the judicial work? What is this sentence? That's what I'm asking. The arrest of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MPs is a comfort. If there is a brave AKP MP who can really explain the sentence, let him explain it, but I have nothing of the sort. Other than that, a trustee has been assigned to Ağar. And I try to get here from here: Every day you try to get there, ignore women's gains, shut down women's institutions, even assign some of the women's workers from the job, to the passive tasks, to try to get that warrior perspective. Look, a people -- unprecedented in history -- will come and see that you will be appointed trustees to your own municipality, your own will, and that trustee will protect himself with great security forces. Well, I'd like to ask you... when a citizen goes in there, when he wants to pay the water bill, or when he has a job, he's going through dozens of GBT points, he's still going to go, he's going to be past the city, and then you're going to come back here and you're going to be making some serious accusations. I'm sorry, all the irregularities, antidemocratic practices you've done, and the coups you've done politically, and I'll come to you from here: all these coups you've done have completely blocked politics, as one who's been called the perpetrators like Mehmet Agar said at the time: "Let them come to the plain, let them do politics." So, I ask you: block the path of politics, assign trustees to the municipalities, arrest all the chosen ones, and then fire 40 cities and district organizations in one day, and then come and say, "Are there any of us able to believe in this? There's nothing real about it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I insist and stubbornly point out that today's arrest of the HDP MPs is a comfort. I want it explained.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0131par0447	Thank you, Mr. Heroalp. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of Article 114 (4) of Sunei Property Law Act 341 be changed in the form of one. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Mr. Ruhi Ersoy will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0132par0460	Mr. President, I'd like to introduce him as a group to read the messages of Mr. President in the press release I just shared with the General Assembly: The Turkish nation is paying heavy prices to preserve its existence, struggling with many misfortunes. However, he will not be able to return from this ordeal and inconvenienced struggle. Because every step of the way will lead to loss of position, even destruction of the country. It is clear that Turkey has been blockaded by terrorist organisations. There is a ring of fire around us that is increasingly intense, causing blood, tears, and pain as it rages. The most heartbreaking of all, the oppressed are brutally and systematically slaughtered in Aleppo. The dramas of our Aleppo brothers, who have historical and cultural ties among us, and the obstructions and catastrophes in the evacuation of civilians and innocent people, shake the human conscience. While a political climate was born to address problems with Aleppo, it is crucial to see how we were under a huge siege when the Russian Federation Ambassador to Ankara was shot in the back by a murderer who was said to be connected. Unfortunately, our country is in complete straits. The chaos that deepens and spreads on Syrian soil is a grave threat to our national security. Turkey's presence in Syrian territory is entirely aimed at securing national security. In this respect, destroying terrorists at the source and focus is a historical imperative for our country's future and future. The siege of El Bab is under way, despite all its difficulties and problems. Besides, there's no other way or way out. The removal of ISIS from El Bab, the peace and stability of this Syrian city is an inevitable necessity and a necessary necessity. The control and hygiene of El Bab's residence must be ensured at all costs, without compromise, without compromise, without interference in the fight against terrorism. Terrorist groups that support each other and hold each other's lives, and what's more, meet on a bad alliance axis, will not be able to bring Turkey to its knees, will not be able to make the Turkish nation give up. As a result, this is the unwavering will of the Turkish nation. It is also a national duty for the government to follow smarter, more responsible and more unifying policies, while Turkey is fighting multi-regional terrorist organisations. With the betrayal we face, strengthening the law of unity and unity, keeping the channels of solidarity and cooperation open is the only option. There is no other Turkey. Just as in the years of the national struggle, our nation must go all the way to the staged hostility and avoid segregation and exclusive political style. Turkey is on its way. It is essential for victory to be one, to be alive, to act as a great nation together. The Nationalist Movement Party is behind the proud Turkish soldier who is fighting the mortal. The Turkish nation will stand by its side until the end of all members of the TSK, without paying a bonus for frustration and slackness, from its recruitment to the Chief of Staff, and will not diminish its prayer and support. With these thoughts, I ask God's mercy to all our heroes who have lost their lives for the sake of the country and the flag, especially our sons, who were martyrs in the siege of El Bab. I offer patience and condolences to their families, to our nation, and to their comrades. I also wish for a cure for our well-treated brothers. Mr. President of the State Garden. We found sharing with the General Assembly appropriate on behalf of our group. At first, we sincerely believe that the government and the entire political institution in general will be able to navigate these sensibilities, and we want to believe. We salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0133par0471	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and offer you the necessary provision to change the terms of Article 114 of the Sunei Property Act, which is currently in session 341. Hilmi Maker (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Mr. Hilmi Maker of Hatay will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Maker.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0134par0484	Mr. President, if you sell valuable lawmakers as a scientific project for the International Patent Association's 2015 report, the number of patent applications will not be surprising to anyone if you swallow bread boxes that keep bread fresh, prayer, cancer, prayer, and battery robot projects that circle the Kabe. In education, in economics, in exporting high-tech products, in branding, it's dark. Is darkness limited to these areas? No. Of course, in many other areas, this dark picture continues. From democratization to foreign policy, you're dragging our country into a darker vortex in almost every area. Finally, yesterday at El Bab, 16 of our soldiers, unfortunately, were killed by terrorists you tried to legitimize as angry children. I wish our soldiers we have lost mercy, condolences to their relatives, to their families, to our entire nation, and to our wounded soldiers, an urgent cure. We've warned the government about this, as in all areas, in Syrian policy. We've always told the Syrian people that we have deep ties in history, political, cultural and social areas, that it's not right for us to interfere in the internal affairs of an independent country, that it's not right for us to intervene, that it's not right to feed bloody killers under the name of the overthrow of Esad, that it's not right to give them logistics, military, political, economic aid, but you've heard what we've heard. You said it was a vision, but we saw your vision, we saw it in the Moscow treaty. Articles one and eight of the agreement are the result of this bankruptcy. In Article 1 of the agreement, Iran, Russia and Turkey express once again their respect for the sovereignty, independence, unity, and territorial integrity of the Syrian Arab Republic as a multi-religious, non-religious, democratic and secular state with many ethnic structures. Even on his own, this substance stands before us as a result of the collapse of your Syrian policy. If you were to respect the democratic, secular Syrian Arab Republic, why did you say yes to this war that killed hundreds of thousands of people? Why did you support the killers? As we said not to get involved with terrorist organizations such as ISIS and El Nusra, the President explained why El Nusra should not be called a terrorist organization. The point that you have come to today has once again come to light with the 8th article, as shown in the collective struggle against the ISID and El Nusra. If you were going to sign this agreement with Russia and Iran, the blood of hundreds of thousands of people who have been spilled is unfortunately on your hands as a result of these sufferings. If the architects of these policies are left with a little conscience, a little compassion, a little honesty, let them come out and tell us. But no, we know that you can't, because when you stand up, the blood of Aylan, who died in Syria, who died in Roboski, who died in Suruç, who died in Antalya, who died in Ankara, and who died in Istanbul, is now in the cold waters of the Aegean, and many other children's blood is in your hands. Look at the last year and a half when this will alone dominated Kurdish cities, including Cizre, Şırnak, Sur, were burned, destroyed, thousands of people lost their lives. The will of the Kurdish people has been ignored, many MPs and mayors, especially their presidents, have been arrested. 411 people were killed in 21 bombings. In the state of emergency, you have detained academics, teachers -- tens of thousands of them, even -- suspended them, expelled them. Under the circumstances, you're setting up a constitution. Really, it's hard, it's hard to understand, because under the circumstances, I consider the constitution a disgrace and a Zul. Civil society organizations have been silenced, the opposition voices have been digested by detention, torture and arrest, newspapers, radios, televisions have been turned off, and under these circumstances you attempt to make a constitution. The hate speech against Alevi and our Kurdish citizens is gone, and you're still discussing the constitution. But all you care about is the presidency. I'm not going to argue here, of course. Call it the presidency, call it the party presidency, whatever you want to call it, it's called regime change, dictatorship, and we'll never let our future be left in the hands of a dictator as long as we exist. For now, the world may not be bigger than five, but the truth is that Turkey is definitely bigger than one. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0135par0492	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 115: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement shall be changed according to the regulations of the 341 rows of the Sunei Property Act (11) in its 11th joke. Desire Erdem Kamil Aydın Bakı Lightning Spiritual Ersoy Mustafa Mit Emin Haluk Ayhan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and provide you with respect to the need to change the terms of the 341th Amendment in the article (1) of the Sunei Property Act, which is currently in session. Kazim lion Tahsin Tarhan Tacettin Bayır The Ancient Durmaz Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi Ömer Fethi Gürer İbrahim Özdish İrfan Bakr Cemal Okan Yüksek Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that Article 115 of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mizgin Irgat Surat Taşdemir Osman Baydemir Feleknas Uca Müslüm Doğan Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Mr. Müslüm Doğan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0136par0524	Mr. President, before I start speaking, there's an institution in Europe where Alevi workers have been working for 20 years, Road TV. This Alevi institution they've been building for 20 years has only one broadcast policy. This is a publishing policy, not to pass on the belief in Alevi and its original teaching to the advanced generations. Only a television broadcasts its prayers, its phrases, the Alevi culture and the rituals of its faith to the future generations, is unfortunately shut down by RTÜK. And I would also like to point out that -- I don't really consider myself critical of the other publications here -- that there are so many publications that will burden the peace of this country, that I strongly condemn the closure of Road TV, an institution of the Aleki faith and its teaching, and I want this situation to be corrected. Dear lawmakers, constitutional debates have been a major issue of Turkey's political agenda for over 50 years. In short, there has always been a constitutional issue in Turkey, a constitutional amendment based on the existing constitutional issue, unfortunately due to the current conditions, is currently not possible. To me, objectively, it's a pipe dream to expect a democratic constitution from this government. The clauses discussed in the Commission to come to the General Assembly could not go beyond predicting rights granted by the state in the constitutions, which is precisely why it could get back when it needed to, and a structure that sustains this system. And that last amendment is a clear proof of that. Like every economic political reality, the constitution is a public contract as the main law that regulates the state's foundation, its functioning, its rights and freedoms. General recognition that constitutions should be without ideology may also be considered the legal roof of social, philosophical, economic structure, social reconciliation. Therefore, the process of making a constitution is undisputed in the fact that its actor is a society. If we really want to live in peace in a pluralistic democratic order, we have to view the constitution as a social contract that serves it. In other words, the constitutional process needs the broadest and most effective participation of society. Is there such a thing in the process, dear lawmakers? Look, our co-Chair, who is currently under arrest, is saying, "Come, let's make a constitution." We'd be happy if we didn't have that kind of understanding. Getting rid of coup constitutions is one of our ideals, but a state like this is like, 'Come, let's make a constitution.' We have to think about it a thousand times. What kind of constitution, what kind of freedom, what kind of democracy will they make the constitution?" Dear lawmakers, where there is no democratic debate, there is no new constitutional study, and that doesn't mean anything. Turkey urgently needs a democratic constitution today. Democratic participation must be opened up. Our party has made this offer dozens of times, but none of them have come to any conclusions. We've had calls regarding the laws to ensure the participation of NGOs, to start a democratic constitutional debate process that could be attended by parties outside Parliament -- and I repeat this call -- but these calls have not been taken into consideration. How will the work, based on the parliamentary majority, be considered a democratic process, through receiving the majority of the referendum when necessary? What kind of constitution is the concern of all individuals living in a society, how it can be met in a general denominator, we can say that the Constitution should protect the private and collective fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens who form society, not personal power, but respect human rights and honor. Without distinction, the principle of equal citizens and equal rights should meet social pluralism on the basis of peace and peace. The Constitution must ensure all this. So the constitution must protect and secure the rights of each citizen, equal and equal to 78 million citizens. If it's really a democratic constitution, I think we need to complete this process before we get to the game of depriving antidemocratic legal regulations and establishing the first conditions for a democratic constitution. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0137par0533	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and provide you with respect to the need to change the terms of the 341th Amendment in the article (1) of the Sunei Property Act, which is currently in session. Cemal Okan Yüksel (Eskişehir) and his friends Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Eskişehir MP Cemal Okan Yüksel will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Ascendant.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0138par0546	Mr. President, you know, we have a Constitutional, presidential debate on our agenda. Well, now, when we first explained the Constitution text, we said with a reflex that such a constitution does not exist in any country in the world, not even in the presidency. In one of our speeches, our Justice Commission group spokesman Omar Süha Aldan said: "Yahu, Cemal, you have some of your English, I remember some of the stuff here, so why don't you translate this constitution?" So, our group vice presidents, our vice presidents, have made a lot of statements. It's a unique constitution, and I've seen that we're wrong. As a lawyer, of course, we have to tell the truth, admit we were wrong. Now, there are your provisions in a constitution. For example, it says in the constitution that the president of the 93 Republic -- the president of Madde -- applies to the people within the limits recognised in this constitution. It's the same, you didn't make it up, you took it. In that constitution, Article 95 states that the president selects one vice president or more vice presidents, giving them part of his duties. The President also appoints ministers, accepts their resignations, relieves them of their duties. E, we've also got the 116th Amendment, where the presidential legislature can be annulled, and there's no conflict. For example, the constitutional court consists of five members in that country, all appointing those who will judge themselves as the supreme court -- Article 139, the president. You've made it a little lighter, 12 of the 15 members of the Constitutional Court are thrown out by the President, and 3 of them are thrown out by the Parliament. I found something on the budget. In our draft, it says that if the budget of the year is not adopted by the Parliament, the budget of the former year will continue by increasing. The constitution says that if the budget is not approved by the start of the new fiscal year, the previous financial budget will remain in effect until the new budget is approved. And what we're most critical of is that the President makes law, makes a decree, and it's in Article 104. Well, it's in this constitution, too, in Article 111, the president has issued a decree. I mean, it's not an AKP constitution. What country's constitution is that?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0139par0552	Zimbabwe
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0138par0554	This is the Syrian Constitution of the dictator Assad.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0140par0556	That's where they cheated?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0141par0557	Did they cheat from Syria?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0138par0558	Dear friends...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0141par0559	Now that they're making up, they're brothers.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0138par0560	...Esad has been persecuted in his homeland for years under the authority he has received from this constitution. It killed over 250,000 Syrians.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0141par0561	Cemal, they became brothers two days ago.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0138par0562	Dear friends, it may be fitting for you to model this constitution, but it would not suit Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0142par0563	Guys, that's not our model, and that's never happened; let's not deviate.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0138par0564	Don't, don't, don't, don't bring the Syrian Constitution to Turkey these days when it's said that Turkey will be Syrian.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0142par0565	Not with demagogy.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0138par0566	Don't make a mistake. Before, we said, "Do not do anything wrong in your previous constitutional amendment. You have changed the Constitution, you have brought Fetullah to justice, you have delivered him; we have suffered their losses together." The last thing we said was don't do sexual abuse on young children. We said, "No, we'll do it." He said, "Mr. Secretary." You had to pull him back, too. You've given him the power to listen before. We said, "Don't do it." Now, you've returned to him with the latest arrangement. Friends, don't, don't turn Turkey into Syria. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0143par0572	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement shall be changed according to the regulations of the 341 rows of the Sunei Property Act (11) in its 11th joke. Altruism (Istanbul) and its companions Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0144par0584	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 115 of the Constitutional Property Act. The Veteran Assembly salutes the beloved Turkish nation watching us on the screen, and our valued pressmen, and the employees of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the wounds of the Istanbul explosion have yet to be healed, before the fire in our hearts is extinguished, before the wounds of the Kayseri explosion are healed, before the fire in our hearts is extinguished, this time we have begun to receive news of our martyrs, El Bab. Unfortunately, our hearts began to burn with them. I wish each one of them God's mercy, patience for their grieving families, and my condolences to the great Turkish nation. Turkey has been fighting terrorism for nearly 40 years. This struggle has caused deep wounds to all of us in particular. When the calendars showed 2002, the PKK terrorist group was nearly destroyed. I don't want to tell you again what happened from November 2002 to today. Believe me, I won't keep you busy here with the stats. One of our martyrs is one of a kind and one of a thousand. Because one of our gases is one of a thousand. That's what makes the National Movement Party different, and that's what makes it so different from all the people whose hearts are in love with their country, and I'd like to point out from here. From 2002 to today, there have been many errors in the fight against terrorism. I'd just like to say in a nutshell that as there are mistakes that shouldn't be made again, the nationalist Action Party has effectively given its support for the fight against terrorism, and will continue to give it. Our country is a place of fire, our heart is a place of fire. When we wake up every morning, will we perhaps face an incident today? When we send our children out the door, will they face an incident? We are in a state of anxiety. I visited our brothers and sisters from the intensive care center who were being treated at Haseki Hospital in İstanbul, and spoke to their families. These are our brothers who were injured in the Istanbul explosion. Most of them are psychologically heavily affected, let alone wrapped up their wounds. Each day, as a result of the diligent efforts of our chief physician, those brothers are also given psychological therapy. It has to be known from here that the veteran should not be seen as just the office of the gazism, nor should it be seen as the title of the gazism. Really, the traumas of those people, the hugging of those traumas, the effort needed to be done at the point where families would have to deal with it. Terror, coup, business accidents, fires, natural disasters, in the last days of 2016, we left behind a year of very active, catastrophic events. In 2017, let's give our veterans and martyrs, the braves of our country, who returned to their places of fire. What are they missing, what are they waiting for? What are their problems, really? I don't know how much the ruling party is opening its ears, but let me repeat them from here. I want regulations on this matter in the bag of laws that will come in January. They say that all our brothers who were injured in the fight against terrorism and not being considered veterans only want the honor that they say: my son, when I arrived in the afterlife, my father fought terrorism and was considered a veteran. Let him say, "We want nothing else." Again, come, let's solve this, let's give our heroes these rights together. Come, let each of us give up on employment to the families and relatives of the martyrs, provide them with employment, and lift the difference between them. Come on, let's get rid of the difference between veterans again. The veteran is our gas, and the Korean veteran is our gas, and the Cypriot veteran is our gas; there are rights differences among them. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's put these on a table, listen to what the trouble is and find a solution. I salute the Veterans' House.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit02spe0145par0595	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 115th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0145par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of Turkey's 45th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of Bill 341. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are two motions on Article 116, which I have you read to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: With respect, we offer and offer you the requirements for changing the terms of the declaration of the 341th Amendment in the article (1) of the Constitutional Property Act (Security Act). Kazim lion Tahsin Tarhan Tacettin Bayır The Ancient Durmaz Mehmet All Cetin Arık Omar Fethi Gürer Gamze Akkuk İlgezdi İrfan Bakır Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the Article 116 of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mizgin Irgat Surat Taşdemir Now, we were going to take Osman Baydemir, but they're not here yet, Mr. Mehmet, let's take you. I'll do the procedure, I'll call you. Mehmet, does the Commission agree with all signed motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Balıkesir MP Mehmet All will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. All.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0146par0030	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Again, as a nation, we weep, and have 16 martyrs in Syria. I pray to God for our martyrs, and for our wounded, and for their families. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, after each martyr's funeral, we all share our sorrows and wish these martyrs to be the last. Dear lawmakers, we will continue to give martyrs inside and outside as long as this policy of anger and hatred continues, to be realistic. Dear friends, Turkey has announced to our people and to the world that Operation Fırat Shield, which began on August 24th, has been cleared of terrorist organizations in order to protect and secure our borders. We support every precaution for the safety of our country, but it soon became clear that this was not the primary objective of this operation. Mr. President, we entered there to end the reign of Esed. He said. Due to the responses, the president stepped down and had to correct his statement. Now, in the protocol signed in Moscow on December 20th, you've recognized Assad. If only you'd done that without tearing down Syria. My dear friends, one person determines Turkey's Syrian policy, who do you think is the architect of this policy, which begins with the dream of praying in the Emevi Mosque, which ends today in recognition of Assad, in Moscow? Of course he's the President. I hope he doesn't give up that policy tomorrow. My dear friends, we have 37 martyrs today from the day of the Battle of Firat, and our wounded have exceeded 100. And who do you think is responsible for all this? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is you who are responsible for this, the government that approves all these wrong policies. You're the ones who raise their fingers and tie every mistake in there to Assad, every mistake out there. If you'd just sat down and thought about it instead of swearing, the stove wouldn't have gone out, our young children wouldn't have been martyrs. Dear friends, look, the first word of Ramazan Olcay, who went to military authorities to inform the home of his father's father, who died on December 19th at the Firat Shield, is the question of whether he was a conqueror or a martyr? Because his two sons are in the army. My dear friends, no one has the right to put a father through this heartbreaking pain. Well, in that case, shouldn't you be feeling a little empathy? These pains, such as these, with slogans, with salaries attached to them, or with a minister's words, I want to be a martyr. Dear lawmakers, in the slightest criticism of the State of Emergency you have declared in the country, you either fire people or lock them up, just because they're against you, you turn off Road TV, the only channel of Alevis, and you want everyone to think like you and share in your mistakes. You don't care how the country goes. If there is anything for you, it is the kingdom of the headman, the future. You couldn't stomach the secular republic. As long as the chief is happy for you, the rest of you don't matter. For you, the economy has hit the wall; poverty, unemployment, hunger, no matter what. You've got 20 martyrs coming every day. It's the presidency that matters, you say. You want to put on a straightjacket that's not clear what happened to Turkey. You want to return the reign that was lifted on 1 November 1922 through the back door. Dear friends, I ask you, what will you do in this House from now on? Now that there are no more laws to be passed, you won't be able to lift a finger and drop a finger. Are you really going to be able to digest this situation? My fellow lawmakers, I never doubted your country's love, but your love for the chief is far ahead of the country's love. If you could say "man and Turkey" instead of "private," we could build peace and democracy in the country together. Dear MPs, as you know, in the 1940s, a chief was created in Germany, and everything he said was applauded and approved. We saw that the chief, the Fuhrer, had caused the world trouble and brought blood upon the world.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0147par0042	Thank you, Mr. All.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0146par0043	If we don't learn from history, we'll all be watching the disasters. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0147par0046	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the Article 116 of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Osman Baydemir (Shanlıurfa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Şanlıurfa MP Osman Baydemir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0148par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable lawmakers, in this five-minute period of time, if I may, I would like to draw your attention, your thinking world, once again, to a point of both reality and out of this reality. Yesterday and today, under the roof of Parliament, I tried to express the violations of the law that we had been exposed to and exposed to in my electoral district of Urbana. 210 people are currently being held at a concentration camp in a closed gym in Urbana. Let me make this very clear: this is not enough, at this time, at this time, our state department is under siege by armored vehicles. Look, this isn't the solution, this is the destruction of legal democratic politics. Does the government want to appoint trustees to HDP's district and district agencies as well? Two political parties competed largely in the province of Urbana, and we have other political parties, but there are two political parties in parliament who get their representation licenses by the public. One is now in government, one is in opposition and the government wants to destroy the only opposition dynamic in Urbana. If you destroy the opposition in democracy, he'll come back to you after a while. I assure you, the danger we face today is very, very great and much greater than yesterday. Today I tried to listen and write down all the oratories in all the groups. No matter who gets the right one, let's take care of the right one. For example, a line came from Mr. Bostanci, deputy leader of the AKP Group, who said: "All the people of this geography have a common destiny, that is, we have to live together, whether it's our destiny or not, even if it's peace. We have to live together." Another orator, Mr. Hilmi Maker, in all the talks he's made, has revealed his determination, his suggestion of how to get out of this mess. Now, once again, one day you'll all need law, all of us. No matter what you fight, no matter what you call it, when you go outside the law, you lose your legitimacy. Now they come out, and they say: "Atamas, trustees, all these arrests are the result of trench, barricade politics." But was there a ditch in Urbana? Was there a barricade in Urbana? No, there is opposition in Urbana. You're making this happen because it's the opposition.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0149par0064	Mr. Osman, you know what's going on here, why don't you tell us?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0150par0065	Congressman, please don't disturb the speaker.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0148par0066	Look, one of these days, you're gonna need the law.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0149par0067	What's going on here?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0148par0068	One day you'll need the law, and you'll need the law.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0149par0069	What happens in Amude, in Amude?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0151par0070	Congressman, please do not interfere with the speaker's speech.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0148par0071	Do you want to get out of here or do we want to get out of here? From today's Turkey, for God's sake, is there a servant of God who is pleased? Which one of you, and which one of us, can be pleased with this blood, this violence, this death, this burning? So, what's the point of insisting? The insistence on this is the insistence on unresolvedness; the insistence on this policy is the insistence on destruction. We'll all be left under this destruction. There's a way out. If we're going to be enemies, if we're saying that there's one thing we need to beat, it's that first thing we need to do is get rid of the hatred, the hatred, the hate. If we can overcome that grudge, that hatred, that hatred, this country can once again capture the map of its common destiny and walk that path again until April 2013-2015. This time, to truly succeed, the government, the opposition, we are prepared to ask ourselves these questions... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Where did we leave it? What did we do wrong? Why didn't we come to the conclusion? We can ask the questions, and together we can produce answers. My deepest regards.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0152par0076	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir. Mr. Baydemir, there's no doubt that our fate is mutual. There's no doubt about it, of course we'll always express it, I wanted you to know.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0148par0078	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your determination and support. This common destiny requires a joint effort, Mr. President, for joy and sorrow to find life.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0152par0079	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 117, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and provide you with respect to the need to change the terms of the article 117, which is in the article (1) of the Common Property Act 341 rows. Kazim lion Tahsin Tarhan Tacettin Bayır Omer Fethi Gürer Cetin Arik Ancient Don't Stop Gamze Akkuş İrfan Bakr Niyazi Nefi Kara Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 117 of the Law Charter 341 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mizgin Irgat Osman Baydemir Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. AHMET GREEN (THUD) - Motive... I'm reading the reason: The experimental property bill, brought before us, provides a measure for the non-metal but productive components of companies in production, distribution, marketing and so on, both for the pre-competitive and especially for the monopoly of the large company, which has a large number of them in its possession. What a country based on editing and manufacturing of intermediary goods in the international production arena needs is not to prevent international monopoly from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights to design, technology, brand and so on. Because in such an environment, there will be asymmetry in terms of producer powers, among public companies, domestic companies, and cooperatives, especially SMEs, with international monopoly based on R&D production, and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. Rights losses and problems, which have been cited as grounds for the bill and were born from the annulments of the Constitutional Court, are nothing more than international monopoly problems and loss of rights. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic point of view alone, it can be seen that the legalisation of the Sunei Property Law will do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, we are politically opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will allow design, invention, and so on, and in concrete terms of foreign capital, to make public economy, cooperatives and COBIs unable to survive, and make people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and provide you with respect to the need to change the terms of the article 117, which is in the article (1) of the Common Property Act 341 rows. Erkan Aydın (Bursa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Mr. Erkan Aydın will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0153par0120	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 117th Amendment of Bill 341. I salute you all with respect and love. Yes, with so many children dying, so many disasters, we sit down and talk about the presidential system as the daily news of the martyrs comes from Syria. First, I wish God's mercy to 16 of our soldiers who were martyrs in Syria, my condolences to our country and its relatives, and immediate healings to the wounded. Look, Syrian policy has only made our people numbers. How many martyrs do we have every day, how many wounded? What happened there? We look at each other together. While all this was going on, what happened in Moscow, when the Foreign Minister signed the agreement? Let's all look at item 1. What's he saying? Iran, Russia and Turkey support the sovereignty, independence, unity, and territorial integrity of the Syrian Arab Republic as a multi-religious, democratic and secular state with many ethnic groups in it. So, in his own country, the Speaker of Parliament has to remove secularism from the Constitution. When he says that he is signing the statement that supports secularism in Syria, he is signing first. For one thing, this contradiction needs to be eliminated. Laiklik, yes, we need it in Syria, but we need it in Iraq; we need it all over the Middle East. If we don't do this, we'll all end up like the Middle East swamp, I'm afraid. We're looking again at our red line. You've never been able to get the YPG-PYD you call the YPG-PYD into any part of the agreement; not a word, not a single sentence. You put the country in the middle east swamp, you turned it into a center for terrorist organizations, and you brought it as long as we didn't know where or when the bomb was going to go off. In this process, yes, the Constitutional Commission is now discussing the presidential system, as you call it. Look, yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister gathered you, held a meeting, and there, close to 20, you, your lawmakers, showed your reservations. What did you say? For example, we elected the President, but our party stayed at 42 per cent, another party came out first, and we as a strong party will not even be able to take control of Parliament. It's a very true and justified criticism. If the president's election is the second round, the opposition will unite, and if he gets the presidency, he can have coalition periods in the presidency and parliament, you said. You've been referring to the coalition on grounds, but you put your hand on your conscience and you actually see the facts. Again, another criticism: it's like we're doing a one-man arrangement under the influence of the traumas and conspiracies that we've experienced. There is an arrangement, as if Erdogan would remain in office forever. Your friends express it there.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0154par0127	It's false information, it's false.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0153par0128	Well, I don't know. That's what we got from the press. We have come, saying that Parliament is the main source of national will. Why do we surrender our sovereignty to one person? You have your own statements. You've made it very clear here that you can only see ministers once in five years, and that you can't reach the ministers when they want to serve their own constituency. Gene, you have stated that the KHK and the HSYK will also be defeated and that judicial independence will also go away. This is all your own criticism.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0155par0130	Did the AKP lawmakers do it?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0153par0131	Yes, AKP MPs, close to 20. We thank them. You've also highlighted the fact that someone who was born abroad may not be President. I'm just saying, hopefully, these will be taken care of by your own party. Of course, our time is up, but with the words of Ataturk, of course, I would like to end it by saying: "Every nation will share the responsibility of the government, which it has endured." I mean, this is not a labor pains, but a pain of death. And lastly, I'm telling you that we've written down that the founder of the Republic of Turkey, Ataturk, who entrusted us with this country, is to remove the statue with these photographs in Rize, today. We'll never forget these photos. Whatever you do, you will not be able to remove it from our hearts. I'm telling you, it doesn't suit a son of a country out of the heart of this nation, and you won't be able to forget it. I complete my speech with respect and love for all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0156par0137	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there are two motions in Article 118: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and offer the need to change the terms of the "or" or "or" in Article 118 of the Common Property Charter 341. Kazim lion Tahsin Tarhan Tacettin Bayır Ancient Durmaz Cetin Arık Ömer Fethi Gürer İbrahim Özdish Gamze Akkuş İlgez İrfan Bakır Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 118 of the current 341 rows be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mizgin Irgat Surat Taşdemir Does the commission agree with the final motion read? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0157par0161	Read the reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0156par0162	I'm reading the reason: The Sunei Property Bill, brought before us, provides a measure to protect the monopoly of companies' non-metal but productive components in production, distribution, marketing and so on, both temporary in competition and especially in the large company, which has a large number of them in its possession. What a country based on editing and intermediary production of the international production arena needs is not to prevent international monopoly from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights to design, technology, brand and so on. Because in such an environment, an asymmetry will arise in terms of productive powers, among public companies, domestic companies and cooperatives, especially the SMEs, and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. Rights losses and problems, which have been cited as grounds for the bill and were born from the annulments of the Constitutional Court, are nothing more than international monopoly problems and loss of rights. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic perspective alone, the legalisation of the Sunei Property Law would be more harmful than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, we are politically opposed to the legalisation of this bill, which will allow design, invention, and so on, and in concrete terms of foreign capital, to make public economy, cooperatives and COBIs unable to survive, and make people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and offer it with respect to change the terms of the 341th Amendment in the article (118) of the Sunei Property Act, which is currently in session. Kazim lion and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, sir. Mr. Haydar Akar will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0158par0178	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, yes, we're talking about the Sunei Property Act bill, and we've come a long way. As you all know, we support this law, a law that Turkey needs, a law that our industrialists need, and we're all working together to enforce it. There's a lot of heavy stuff, but I'd like to share some of my findings with you. It's not enough to pass the law. You know why it's not enough? This podium we're using is a technological product, but it's not our technology. The chair used by the president is a technological product, not a product of our own. Everything that makes our life easier, when you look at it, the TVs you use in your homes -- right -- have been swallowed up for years, like the Ottoman Times printing, then the TVs in the Republic were sold out for sin -- or the phones you use, smartphones, or non-intelligent phones, refrigerators, washing machines, and, if you think about it, can you give us an example in the world that's been developed, patented, patented, branded? We can't, can we? So this patent is not the main reason for breaking brand laws, increasing production in Turkey, increasing patents, increasing brands. So, what should we do? ▪ Education first. Isn't that what we call it? Education first. Look, PlSA took children of 15 years of age, did a test with 500,000 children, and when we look at the results of these tests and results that they did in 72 countries, we're 52 percent among 70 countries in science, and we're still 50 percent among 70 countries, so we're a country that doesn't understand what we're reading, we're children, we're students; we're 49 percent among 70 countries in mathematics. I'm saying that at 15 years old, it should mean something to you. You've been in power for 14 years; these kids, the kids who took the test today, all the kids who were tested in your time, were 1 years old when you came to power, so they went through your education, and they went through the training that you predicted for this Turkey; that's what we've come up with. Look, we're bragging about 78 million, 80 million, right? We can't even create a world-class footballer in 80 million countries, but a world-branding footballer can come out of the 1.5 million Turkish population in Germany. So there's no system back there, guys. If there's no system, we'll see that there's no chance of success. In my speech yesterday, Mr. Secretary, after we came to power, we fell both in the production and export of what we call high-tech products, or what we call high-inclusion products. We're looking at the point where we're looking, and we're trying to increase them today, but we're doing artificial work again, we're dealing with artificial work, we can't solve the fundamental problem. Korea, I want to give you an example: Korea's high-tech export is $130 billion in 2013, friends. Look, Korea and we... remember, in the 1980s, it was a country that was lower than ours, wasn't it? At the point where we're here today, we're just saying that we're exporting $7.5 billion, high-tech, the World Bank doesn't accept that, people. Our exports are $2.2 billion because there are no such products in the category that the World Bank classifies as high-end technology. We're looking at Korea's share of RD, 4 per cent, or 4 per cent of the non-national. When you arrived in 2002, RD was 0.7, below 1. At the point where you came in, the share was 1.1. Is that enough? It's not enough. With that logic, is there any chance that we can produce high-end products in Turkey with these shares? Not at all. What is the average world? There's a world average around 2,2-2.4.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0159par0185	Average of what?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0158par0186	The average of RD, if you'd listened... You just got here, I'll tell you again, don't worry about it.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0160par0187	Mr. Akar, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0158par0188	So, now, when we look at the companies that went into the top 500 in Turkey, friends, there are 186 companies that export with the lowest production of technology; there are 186 companies that produce and export low technology among 500 major companies. The first 500 have the lowest 186 companies, low 163 companies, we call the middle 109 companies, the high-tech companies only have 12 companies in Turkey. So in your 14 years of power, you've never been able to produce high-tech products, to produce high-profile products. We're looking at exports, and there's no talking about the first 20 things in exports. You know, when you were bragging about G20, you weren't in the first 20 percent of G20 exports? What are you in for? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're in a smoking society, you're in an import society.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0161par0193	Thank you, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0158par0194	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0161par0195	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion in Article 119: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we offer and provide you with respect to the need to change the terms of the article 119, which was mentioned in the article (2) in the 3 months of the 3rd amendment to the 341 rows of the Sunai Property Act. Kazim lion Tahsin Tarhan Tacettin Bayır Omer Fethi Gürer Cetin Arik Ancient Don't Stop İbrahim Özdish İrfan Bakır Gamze Akkuk İngez Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We don't agree, sir. Nüğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0162par0213	Mr. President, valued lawmakers have concluded applications for loan distribution in KOSGEB provinces. In the province of Niğde, he applied for a loan of £50,000 from 1,631 KOBI, which, unfortunately, is available to 67. In this regard, Mr. Minister, I would like you to make an exception to Niğde. And in a letter sent by our President of the Niğde Coffee Room, Kadir Banner, who says: "We want to take advantage of KOSGEB loans as a coffee shop, but they don't take any of us on loans like this, we're victims." I'm passing Mr. President's request to the Minister. Besides, the BIKO factory in Niğde is a very important business. The problem with the four - month - old fibre factory also wrapped up in AKO (A.K.A.) because it is one of Niğde's foundings. Besides his problem with getting loans from banks, he wants to keep his door open by meeting with the government. Otherwise, he'll be subjected to a procedure that will lead to the extraction of workers, which would be disastrous for Niğde. Currently, Niğde was forced to take a break from the production of nearly four factories in Niğde. Like the SMEs, our factories are having problems. In this regard, we want the government to focus on the problems of businesses in the region, on the problems of the tradesmen, on the problems of the SMEs. There was a $30,000 loan that the government announced for the tradesmen. The announcements on this loan were made with such enthusiasm that nearly 1,700,000 major tradesmen in Turkey were excited to file. They went and applied with 350-400 lira files. But some of the important problems they faced when they applied were: they needed two guarantors to get it, a mortgage, and they didn't have to owe the bank. In our country, there are very few tradesmen who don't owe money to banks.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0163par0217	No.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0162par0218	However, the shopkeeper prepared his file and applied. I asked the head of the People'sbank at the CIT Commission, 48,285 people were able to take advantage of this $30,000 loan. But in the public presentation of this loan, you thought the problem of our entire tradesman was going to be solved, so there was an expression. It was said five years ago, and then 18 months later, interest-free payments went down. In short, the tradesman is now literally the victim, the SMEs are the victim, the factories are about to end their production. In our country, unemployment is growing like an avalanche. The important part of the job applications that come to you after the state-owned enterprises that have closed with privatisation logic is to put us in the cities. It's his understanding. However, all municipalities are forced to employ workers on norm staff. With subcontractors, in three months, the mandate of the 750,000 workers working in our country did not take place, unfortunately, even after a year. It's an industrialist problem, it's a laborer, it's a problem, it's a business problem, and it's stuck in the face of increasing challenges. In this context, 2017 appears to be heading towards a more troubled process. To do that, the government must reflect its measures in practice beyond words. So big promises need to be reflected in the street, reflected in the workplaces, and what they're told to reflect on our people needs to find life. In this regard, practices on the issues promised so far are not good examples. For 2017, I want our wish, our wish, our tradesman's, our COBIs, our industrialist's support, and the practice that will be met in the field. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0164par0223	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0165par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0164par0226	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0165par0229	Thank you. Mr. President, as of this afternoon, there's been a very intense reaction to social media, so it's like this: A statue of Ataturk in the square, which, thankfully, didn't fall down like the statue of Saddam. It didn't fall down, but a statue was removed. We don't even want to think that this will be taken down on purpose.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0164par0231	Of course.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0165par0232	Of course, the Rize Governor has a reason. However, in order to ease public opinion and social media coverage, we demand an explanation, an explanation, or a statement from the government of Rize. I do, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0164par0234	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0166par0235	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0164par0236	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0166par0238	Mr. President, thank you. Certainly, there is no disrespect against the image of Ataturk, the image of Ataturk. What the municipality has done is co-ordinated with the governor's office that the statue of Ataturk will be taken to the province and the square will be judged by a new arrangement. Therefore, there is no direct disrespect for the statue of Ataturk. Besides, the important thing is, above all, of course, they're symbolic and valuable, and you have to pay attention to them. It is also important that when we look from the founding of the republic to the present and the future, we act in harmony with the fundamental ideas and the spirit of the republic, especially ataturk, who founded the republic. These are the symbolic aspects that need to be paid attention to. And I suppose there's no fundamental difference of opinion between political parties. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0167par0241	Thank you. Mr. Bak, did you hack into the system?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0168par0243	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0167par0244	It's been erased, but do you insist?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0169par0245	My explanation is sufficient.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0167par0246	Okay.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0170par0247	It's like this: of course, the ruling party's deputy leader's explanation is, in our opinion, the executive body that performs the procedure, the etiquette, the practice of a job. So, we think it's okay, we don't even think about it, that the statue of Ataturk will be removed and put in a warehouse.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0167par0248	Of course.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0170par0249	...in order to relax social media, there's a need for an explanation. I also want to thank Mr. Bostanci for his sensitivity, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0167par0251	Thank you, too. It's a subject we're all sensitive about, and I think it should be known that way. I submit the 120th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 121 to your votes... There's a motion. I'm confused, too. You've lifted the statue. I'm impressed.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0171par0258	Yeah, well, you're upset, too. You're upset, too. I understand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0167par0259	I'm really impressed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to the Turkish Armed Forces and Security Service to change the declaration to the Ministry of National Defence and Ministry of Interior, which is part of the 121st amendment to the 341st Amendment. Erhan Usta Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Ruhi Ersoy Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TECHLOLOGY COMMITOR SERT (ISTANBUR) Government? We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0172par0270	Motive...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0167par0271	I'm reading the reason: The provision in Article 121 of the bill was intended to be in harmony with the situation issued on July 31, 2016 in accordance with the state of emergency declared after the coup attempt on July 15, 2016 and due to the change of the commitments of Turkish Armed Forces and law enforcement institutions. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 122 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the regulation of the 122th article of the 341-trial Property Act of Sunei Property Act, which has been discussed, the inventions that have been supported by public institutions and institutions and by a public institution or organization and are not part of the private sector are required to be announced in accordance with the regulation of the public institution providing support. We demand and propose that it be changed in accordance with the form of the public institution. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Kamil Aydın Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, sir. Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0173par0287	Motive...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0167par0288	I'm reading the reason: It is considered appropriate to include in projects with one side public and the other private sector not to be implemented. With this substance, the accession of the private sector's intellectual rights and then limits to the use of the private sector, or ways of use that will not be preferred. Thus, it is expected to be made clear on the conditions in which the matter can be applied and limited to public-public joint projects. In public private sector projects, the rights of the public sector are currently under way with contracts in the relevant public institution or the relevant project. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit Article 123 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 124 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 125th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 126th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 127... those who do not accept... are accepted. Those who accept the 128... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 129... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 130... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 131... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 132... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 133... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 134... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 135... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of the 136th Amendment... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 137... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 138... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 139... those who do not accept... are accepted. Those who accept 140... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 141... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in section five have been completed. Now, let's begin the interviews of Section Six. Chapter six includes Articles 142 to 171. On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group on the sixth chapter, Heromarash MP Fahrettin Oğuz Tor will speak. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0174par0318	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the MHP on the sixth chapter of Sunei Property Law Bill 341. Unfortunately, during the operation of the Fırat Shield, we learned that 14 more of our soldiers were martyrs yesterday in El Bab. I pray for God's mercy to our martyrs, and I pray for healing to our wounded. Hopefully, these will be our final martyrs. Our pain is eternal. We're thirsty, and we're not happy about it. Who's friend and who's enemy is inseparable. The truth is that the fire burns its place. I say to their families, that Allah may not be patient with those who remain behind, and that He may be patient with them. Dear lawmakers, section six of the Sunei Property Law Bill is composed of 142 to 171. These include regulations on the useful model, durations and notifications on the probationary property rights, the rights holder's rape and compensation, the statute of limitations, precautions, payments, and consequences, the institution's advisory board and educational centre, the establishment of new apartments and tasks. They're technical issues, and the relevant commissions have been thoroughly assessed, and our members of the National Movement Party have provided the necessary contributions. I'm going to review the ten minutes of my time as a member of the CSI Commission instead of making an assessment of the same issues again, as a result of the fact that both the economic and social and strategic reasons for our country are not well managed and not effectively supervised. I hereby salute your high council. As you know, the OSCE status is mostly operational in the markets in which the state is a natural monopoly and in areas and sectors that are critical, strategic and important to the country. In our country, as in many countries around the world, CSCEs operate in different sectors, especially areas such as energy, transport, banking. The Court reports of several public economic initiatives have been discussed in the CSI Commission, as part of the legislative activities of 2016, as well as the executives of relevant institutions. These meetings, unfortunately, have made it clear that many of these organizations are not well managed but are not effectively audited and that their executives are not accountable. Just to give you an example, the Court's demand for examination, investigation at the Bank of Provinces has not been concluded, although it has been many years, or even over the statute of limitations. At this institution, where the former general manager was tried by 3628, the investigation demands need to be more thorough, but the truth is sadly indifferent to the discovery. As for those who strive to prove by Allah's command, I would like you to be witnesses to justice for yourselves, even though they be rich or poor, even though they be with your parents and your kinsmen. So do not follow your own selves in order to be equitable; and if you twist your tongues, or change the word, or turn away from the truth, then surely Allah is Aware of what you do. Dear friends, the first condition for the success of these organizations is that the executives are elected from among qualified individuals with the equipment and capacity required by the job. The Most High has enjoined upon us in this matter: "Allah commands you to give back to your owners their trusts, and when you judge between people, judge with justice." Our Lord has kept the commandments of the Holy Prophet for the rest of his life, and He has enjoined upon Himself what He has enjoined. For example, you know the incident in Mecca's conquest. To repeat, the key to the Kaba, which is extremely important and valuable to Muslims, has been handed over to Osman bin Talha, who, at the time, is not a Muslim, but is able to perform that task in the best possible way. I mean, he gave it to someone who wasn't himself. Today, I would like to point out that this practice is far from understanding. Dear friends, the measure and criteria on this matter are very clear, without having to discuss it, without going into it; you will give it to your people. If we open our hands and pray to God and prostrate ourselves, it is imperative that we do so. His sin is not in prayer, nor in fasting; for in this is a bondman's right. So, what's the app like with us? Unfortunately, most of the OSCE executives are high-level bureaucrats who are either former AKP lawmakers, party members, people who have very close ties to the party, or in other institutions who are already under the job as an undersecretary, general manager, governor, as if they weren't able to get along, so that they can get paid more than they can. Of course, when you take the place of merit and driver's license with criteria such as loyalty and eternal commitment, the result inevitably becomes delivered to an address, personal bank loans, general management costs reaching enormous numbers, and the tender irregularities of goods and service purchases, bank loans that are not collected, and public damage on the back of the nation. So in 2017, we have to allocate $7.2 billion in budget damage, $7.2 billion in mission losses. These are the taxes that the poor pay with a great deal of difficulty. Believe me, they won't be able to sleep until morning if the members of the board, who are not competent, are aware of the consequences of their signatures. With such understanding, a KİTίi with millions of pounds of market value cannot be run, not even a convenience store can be run. The other pathetic issue is that these institutions cannot be effectively and fairly audited by the control departments of both their control units or the ministries they are connected to, as well as by the Court. As a result of evidence and findings on the general manager of a joint partnership, the review board demands that the republic's prosecutor be indicted, but the report is being cleared by the department of relevant control. As a country, we also have the obligation to overcome this disease, and it is clear that if we fail, we will be defeated. Although the Supreme Assembly's Supreme Court has determined corruption and irregularities in many matters, it is unfortunate that the reports are not required, although they have been subjected to a statute of limitations, and the prosecutors are shy and helpless to press charges against those responsible. Those responsible for reports that have not been examined, investigated, or deliberately expired during the investigation are being released from the punishment they should be punished for. Honourable MPs, do you know what destroyed the people who were before you in a theft? Those who, when a noble man among them steals, leave him unrequited, and when a poor man among them steals, they punish him. By God, I would not discriminate against Fatima, not my daughter Fatima, from the Mazum tribe, who are still thieves. Yes, this attitude, unfortunately, is not an example. Dear friends, I believe that the thief is an asshole because there is a right here for a servant and a right for a slave. It's a different matter. Today, the punishment of a person who lives in the society with dignity has become a very exceptional situation, and that's what's painful. This does not suit this country, which is the majority of the people who are Muslims. Dear lawmakers, one of the most beautiful and striking events about how close and dirty KİSCEs with the ruling party could harm a country has happened not too long ago in Brazil. The incident of Petrobras in Brazil has brought Brazil into a major and deep economic and political crisis; many public officials have been arrested, company managers have been released from the post of President Dilma, and investigation has been launched into former President Lula da Silva. As a result of all these events, the country's economy was reduced by 3.8 per cent in 2015, and in 2014, it was reduced to $1 trillion 775 billion in non-billion in non-profit revenues of about 2 trillion $420 billion, and in 2015 there was about 25 billion in direct foreign capital loss, poverty and unrest in the country. The poor, strange gurus have become the people who suffer. It's my greatest wish that similar events don't happen in our country. I hereby salute your high council, saying that we must hold on to justice and justice.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0175par0331	Thank you, Mr. Tor. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Adana MP, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş will speak. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0176par0335	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, we're still working on the Constitutional Commission, starting three days ago, we're there until morning. I'd like to inform both Parliament and our people, and, frankly, to share the details of the work hidden from the public, hidden from the community, because it's not even a line of speeches, and we've been waiting two days, and there's no way to express the thoughts. All our demands on the first day have been denied. We told him to watch the organs of the press. He was rejected. Keep three agencies; this concerns the public, and the people want to see the contract for themselves, to discuss it. We said, "It's rejected." Let's take a week off from the General Assembly, and all the MPs want to participate in this study. Let's do a commission with equal representation -- just like in the past. We said, "It's rejected." After all, the Presidential Court, consisting of the ruling party, has been working for three days, rejecting all the parties' demands. Well, what is it? What are we doing? There, behind closed doors, parties say their thoughts, but no one has any intention of being convinced, no intention of arguing; there is a decision being made, without telling the public about their position, trying to reach a schedule that has already been agreed on how to live, how to live, how to live. Today, Mr. Prime Minister has also said that we expect him to come to the General Assembly at the beginning of January. This means that we will run this Commission until the beginning of January. So, what else are we doing there? What kind of environment are we in? You know, just yesterday, in Syria, the great loss of Al-Bappa, the Kayseri, Beşiktas, the workers, the murdered women, the economic crisis, where the dollar takes its head off, we are discussing the Constitution in an environment where politicians are kept in prison. Isn't that a luxury? Can we really argue? No, of course not. So, what do they say, the owners of this proposal? I'll start with the opposition party. In 2012, when we worked together at the Constitutional Compromise Commission in 2013, representatives of the MHP themselves, Mr. Parsak, said that this was the chosen Kingdom proposal. What about today's words of Yasin Aktay, the spokesman of the government? The arrest of HDP MPs is a comfort to the public. Is that even possible? It's a confession, though. We're expecting new confessions. They deny it every day, but we knew that the decision on how, when, where, and what charges they were to be arrested was made by a central mind within power itself, but today, Yasin Aktay has confessed in a really good way. Well, the community's completely blocked. Who's going to make this constitution? Today we learned from the Prime Minister's statement that he didn't really know the constitution. Strange, isn't it? I hope the ruling party MPs read the Prime Minister's statements today. What's he saying? Mr. Prime Minister says there are one or two things that confuse our friends. This is a confession. Not one or two issues, but after the signatures were signed, after it was shared with the public, the ruling party MPs learned as we did. And they don't know what happened before, because there's a personal constitution going on. So, what does the Prime Minister say? He says: "The Parliament will approve the budget. Shall we laugh or weep?" The Prime Minister doesn't know about the draft. What else does it say? Because the right to budget belongs to the House. There's no interest in billing, drafting, proposal. However, budgetary rights are given entirely to the President, and parliament's budgetary authority is being stripped of its most important authority. Then what does he say? As of today, I see a serious acceptance of society. What society? Where was it accepted? Who did you tell? You don't know it yet, your deputies don't know it yet, the parties haven't discussed it yet. Do you live in space, Prime Minister? How did he get accepted in society? The public doesn't even know about this constitution. Another thing: we'll work on the proper materials. It says. The bill came to the Commission, and then it says, "We can't touch the VIRGUL without MHP." This is a memorandum of reconciliation. In our statement two months ago, we said that the People's Democratic Party (HDP) did not go after AKP (AKP); the AKP went after DP. They already confirm what we say every day, every day. Well, if he didn't make the MHP happy, then there's no compromise. He says, "That's what the Prime Minister says." And oddly enough, the mayor and the city are comparing it to councillors. The president will work as a mayor and as a councilman, he says. It's going further and further, and in this system, it says that for the public to act and work on the President, it will give parliament the authority to enforce the laws the President needs, the country needs, and follow its team. So, in the new system, we're all going to authorize the president to act -- the MPs, the community, the people, the 79 million. The Prime Minister says it, I don't say it. And it says, "We're going down to the bars." Who's going down? You're going down. Does anyone else have access to the squares except you? Can anyone do a rally? Can any of us talk in the media-release organs? Look, I looked at the Constitutional News today, and the Minister of Justice says it's like a slap to HDP people. God, if I wasn't there, I'd say he really answered. We say the police killed the Russian ambassador. Is that a lie? It's not a lie. On duty? He's on duty. Do you have an I.D.? I do. We say we need to figure this out, and from there, how do you tell us that? He says that, and he slaps us. He doesn't know he's being slapped. We're getting slapped internationally, but the press is coming, and they're doing it in slap literature. So, what's it gonna be? The NGOs don't know, the academics don't know, the lawyers don't, and today we're doing it for the ruling party representative. Yeah, what people? Who's listening? You go to the people and you impose it on them, like this, like this. There's one-sided propaganda. Co-chairs, lawmakers, mayors are arrested, we're playing democracy, there's no such thing. In the state of emergency, we can't make a democratic constitution in an environment where torture continues everywhere, in an environment where our soldiers have lost their lives every day across the border, where civilians have been subjected to massacres, where even the Maras massacre has been rejected. But we have a chance, my dear friends, that the representative of the MPP has said that, of course, we're going to explain this in a very detailed way in the Constitutional Commission. Constitutions provide solutions to social problems, not new social problems. What is the need in this country now? It's a pluralistic constitution. Kurdish, Turkish, Alevi, Laz, his wife, his youth, his child, and everyone's problems need a constitution, a constitution, a peace of social peace. Mr. President, there's no time here, and I'm going to talk about his old speeches in the Constitutional Commission -- he's talking about the peace constitution in 1991, and today the war constitution is voted on. A democratic constitution cannot be read under the conditions of the State of Emergency. We really want to address your consciences: You're turning Turkey into a cliff together with yourself. We don't need the chosen kingdom. In this country, in this country, the Constitution is now, and under these conditions, we have to take out this system of persecution by working for fifteen hours, because this is the directive. This is definitely the people who see the imposition. What are we doing here right now? Are we really doing parliamentary work? There's no one. Let's count, there's 50 of us. What are we discussing? Which one of us knows about the law? Who read the Test Property Law Bill? Who read the Constitution? Those signatures were written in blank paper, and now we're making a social contract. We're calling them community, but there's no community, but there's no people. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0177par0350	The people are voting.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0176par0351	Let's see if the public will give it to us.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0178par0352	Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0179par0353	Mr. President, all the answers to the speaker's claims are being given in the Commission, and they will be given the same way when it comes to Parliament, and it will be discussed in public. We're discussing the patent law right now, and I've been promised only to make this statement on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0178par0355	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Balıkesir MP Ahmet Akın will speak. Here you go, Mr. Akin.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0180par0359	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the sixth chapter of the Sunei Property Act, number 341. I hereby salute the High Council. We're getting some heart-burning news from our soldiers who served in the Battle of the Firat Shield. I wish God's mercy on our heroic soldiers who are martyrs, condolences on our nation, patience for their grieving families, and immediate healing for our wounded. Dear lawmakers, the bill we're discussing is a bill that we think is generally positive and meets the need. International contracts and the EU acquish also clearly reveal such a need. More importantly, that's what the information society aims to do. Innovation today has become the source of production, growth, and wealth creation. The only means of innovation, of transitioning to the information economy, of course, is education. That's why we need to improve our education system first. The AKP has always looked at education as raising a generation in its own world, not as a goal to provide our young ones with knowledge in the same way as their peers in the world -- not even by awarding them a professor who praised ignorance, ignorance, and hated educated people -- by awarding them a professor. Again, Taner Yildiz, a former Minister of the AKP, said that as the level of education rose, the AKP's vote rate declined. Erdogan Bayraktar, a former Minister of the AKP, is a Muslim country. That's why we can't invent, we can't invent. Sadly, these statements sum up the AKP's view of education. That's why the Justice and Development Party in training is doing it. It deconstructs the quality of the educational system. Our most popular high schools are falling apart, being disbanded. During each minister's term, a separate educational system is introduced. My dear fellow lawmakers, the results of the 2015 PISA are obvious. It's actually a report card. It happened as many times as you wanted, and that's what happened. Tell me, there's a very concrete indicator. Unfortunately, we've collapsed in education. Instead of looking for excuses for that, what can be done to change this bad going, let's all think about it, let's talk about it together, because it's not just about you, it's about the future of our country, it's about all of us. OECD measures the country's innovation potential with an assessment entitled Creativity and Problem Solving. Our children who have succeeded in this test in Turkey are only 2.2 per cent; the OECD average is 12 per cent; South Korea is 28 per cent. With your permission, we'd like to draw that conclusion. In 2013, the number of patents received by a single state-of-the-art company, a company we all know well, is 18 times the number of patents we have received as our country in the last 50 years. Raising free individuals with knowledge and equipment that can compete with the world has to be the main purpose of our educational system. Education is the need of society, people, this country, the future, all of us. Who needs the presidency? A family or a group, but it's never what this country needs. Look, you're trying to impose a government system on our country right now, my dear friends. Let this presidency, the kingdom, the love of rule, be the republic that holds us all together. (CHP rows) You see the solution of everything, and unfortunately, the presidential system, which you defend by being ridiculous in front of the world, will take our education further back because education is an area that needs to be developed with common intelligence. Everything precious, precious, important, successful for education will be plundered, destroyed. My dear fellow lawmakers, also in the world, as you know, fossil energy sources are the last to exist. One day this will come and it will end. The countries that are producing on the basis of the information economy are working seriously today on the solution to this, a very serious transformation in energy is happening in the world. There are tremendous innovations and advances in renewable energy. Instead of oil, electric vehicles have become the most important competition in the automobile industry. The advanced world has turned its course to this. You keep calling it a local and national car. Yeah, we'd love to have a local car, even this brand of the world, and we're willing to give any kind of support, but the competition in the information economy is based on that, so we think we'll be better off if we continue on the electric car. Five or six years ago, it became economical today with investments in wind and solar energy production, which we know to be very expensive, and RD studies. The countries are creating very serious investments and resources for these research and for these RD studies. They also have very serious RD investments and work in electrical energy storage opportunities. In five decades, electricity from renewable energy sources will be stored on large scales and long periods of time. What are we doing about it, dear friends? Nothing. We have every opportunity, but you have no intention of moving the country forward. Dear lawmakers, law has been passed on the energy efficiency of our local resources, strategy documents have been drawn up, but there is still no application here. We use 30 percent more energy to produce the same product than OECD countries. It is also imperative that this matter be implemented and implemented immediately. Let's start with public buildings. Let's start with the Turkish Grand National Assembly building and then the Department of Energy's own building. Let's work with the goal of being a country that exports knowledge and technology so that we can bring our republic, which is the trust of the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, to the level of murky civilizations. My dear friends, we're very interested in what you want and can't do. Please ask yourself that question. Everything is in your hands, power is in your hands, power is in your hands, we don't understand what you have to complain about the Republic. What's one man? We closed that book in 1923. We have come to our republic, where we have taken our kingdom from one man, from the king, and the sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally, and our ancestors have paid great price. And from now on, we have no intention of giving the sovereignty back to one man. I'd like to address my dear friends from the AKP and the MP from the MPHP. Come, give up this love, don't let the future of your children and your grandchildren go dark, don't waste it. Our country is going through a very difficult process, and you've been running our country alone for 14 years. At this point, the terror is on the rise, our people are worried, the economy is broken, the currency is on the line, unemployment is breaking records, no investment, no business, no foreign policy bills are already in the way, no one can predict what's going to happen tomorrow, investors don't see the way, and our people don't deserve this, either, dear friends. Let's do good things together, let's move together, let's focus on the problems of our people. That's what we say we do, but what does power do? He's working overtime for the presidential system. The place is on fire, and you still call it the mayor. Do you know what my dear friends do besides the ruling presidency? He's now drafting a bag bill to give public goods to the foundations of the President's family, and the bill is being discussed in the Plan Budget Commission. Your municipalities are already giving me everything. Now, where did this legal arrangement come from? Public property looting is officially being done through TRUGEV and the others. You're giving public property to the control of a family. Our people see it all, watch it, assess it. Your efforts to drag the country into a single man's regime without any need are not rewarded, dear friends. We all see that. Our people will never allow you to seek a ruling regime. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0181par0371	Thank you. In the name of his person, the Congressman of Denizli...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0182par0373	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0183par0374	Again? Me, too.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0181par0375	I'm in the middle of something. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0184par0377	Mr. President, as our dear friend put it, a bill is not in the Plan Budget. We'll talk about it when you get here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0181par0379	That's right, yeah. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0185par0381	It's always known that these things are cooked somewhere, down to Parliament, Plan Budget at the last minute. What our friend says is true. Just because the plan didn't come into the budget doesn't mean it didn't happen. I do, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0186par0383	I don't have one right now.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0185par0384	I'll leave it to discretion.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0187par0385	We'll discuss it when he comes to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0185par0386	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0187par0387	We don't know anything about that right now.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0185par0388	No, he gave our friend the wrong information. I felt the need to explain it because he spoke in a way that created a sense.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0187par0389	Perhaps he did, Mr. Bostanci, the proposal or the bill.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0188par0390	No, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0185par0391	Yes, sir, I do.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0187par0392	Okay. On behalf of him, Mr. Kazim lion of Denizli will speak now. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0189par0396	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. We're still negotiating the bill on property property. I made a personal pledge in chapter six. Again, I'd like to express my thoughts about this law to you. Dear friends, I want to thank all my friends who have contributed to this work in a way that will respond to the expectations of the business. Of course, beyond that, we are in a situation where we can't do a lot of business relations, exports with our neighbors, especially because of the recent dissolution of domestic peace in our country and the fact that our relations with the neighbors have been broken. Also, as our relations with our neighbouring countries have reached the point of end, our exports have come to an end. Many of the crops we produce in agriculture are left in the hands of our farmers and producers, who have not been sold, our vegetables, our fruits. Of course, the damage to this is a fact that, as it did to our country, there is a great deal of damage to our farmers, our producers, and our tourism. Now, let's all reassess, my dear friends. As the Republican People's Party, we have stated for days that we must take good care of our relations with our neighbours, that Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, which Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has shown us, that we must not leave the peace principle in Jihanda, that it has been continued in Turkey, in Turkey, and that Turkey has gained much distance because of this situation, and that it has become a powerful country in the region, but you have not listened to us. Because of the dissolution of our relations with Syria, we insisted that we stop this conflict, and this time you told the Republican People's Party that you were Assad. My dear friends, you have even come to the conclusion that even six months in power would not be able to stay in power, and we will all pray together in Damascus. But this battle has been going on for nearly three years, Assad continues to remain in office, to continue his work, but the damage to Turkey, believe me, is becoming more and more. I want you to see these in particular. Because because of the dissolution of these relationships, both our political relations and our commercial relations, our export relations have been so screwed up that at this point, I would like to point out that we've suffered an incredible loss of business, political loss. My dear friends, now, you know what the worst part is? Of course, because of the struggle with Assad, many refugees who fled from Assad came and settled in our country, and we had to look at them. And we're carrying a lot of baggage about these things, and we're trying to integrate them into our country, and we're trying to keep them alive here. Turkey's burden has increased greatly in this regard, my dear friends. My dear friends, now, do you know what happened beyond that? As we broke relations with Syria, Assad retreated into his territory, leaving Syria's north to the terrorists, allowing both control of our border and the shelter of terrorists in the north of Syria, doing a work that would allow all kinds of terrorists to live there and find logistic support from Kurdistan, NYD, from YPG, from El Nusra, from ISIS. And in this respect, really, as we can't prevent terrorism from happening in our south, we can't do the safety of our borders, and because of this insecurity, our reputations are getting ruined in the country and abroad, and we're running low every day. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0190par0408	Thank you, Mr. lion. Congressmans, the talks on chapter six are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section six to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There's a motion in Article 142 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that Article 142 of Law Bill 341 be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Yıldırım Mizgin Irgat Surat Taşdemir Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The Bill of Sunei Property Law, brought before us, provides a measure to protect the monopoly of companies' non-metal but productive components in production, distribution, marketing and so on, both temporary in competition and especially in the large company, which has a large number of them in its possession. What a country based on editing and manufacturing of intermediary goods in the international production arena needs is not to prevent international monopoly from being implemented within the country by protecting its rights to design, technology, brand and so on. Because in such an environment, an asymmetry will arise in terms of producer powers, among public companies, domestic companies and cooperatives, especially the SMEs, with international monopoly based on R&D, and that asymmetry will make the domestic elements much more vulnerable in the high-tech production market. Rights losses and problems, which have been cited as grounds for the bill and were born from the annulments of the Constitutional Court, are nothing more than international monopoly problems and loss of rights. Even if we think about it from a macroeconomic point of view alone, it can be seen that the legalisation of the Sunei Property Law will do more harm than good for Turkey's economic development. The main reason for this is the fact that Turkey's economy is not a production but a debt-based consumer economy, and that domestic producers will be harmful to international monopoly if the bill is passed. In short, as a party, we are subject to the legalisation of this bill, which will make design, invention and so on, unilaterally, and in concretely, in the face of foreign capital, the public economy, the cooperatives and the COBIs unable to survive, and make the people dependent on monopoly capital. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There is a motion in Article 143, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of Article 143 of Law Bill 341 shall be changed in the following way. Tacettin Ridge Kazım lion Haydar Akar Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet Ömer Fethi Gürer The application, along with the application or without any notice, is required to seek research within two months of the date when the application is reported to lack in accordance with the conditions or that it has been covered during the duration of the shortcomings." Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TECHLOLOGY COMMITOR SERT (ISTANBUR) Government? We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: According to the same clause of the bill (4), if the application is found to be incompatible with the conditions, the application is asked by the recipient to repair the deficit within two months of the date of the notification, and the application is rejected if the lack is not removed during that time. According to this joke, if the applicationor was notified to address the deformities, he would be expected to be relieved within two months of the notice date, and if he does not cover his shortcomings, his application would be rejected. In this case, if the application's examination of the deformity has yet to be completed and the application needs to pay the application's research fee before it is decided that the application is appropriate, it will have paid its application fee for an application that will be rejected if the application's application cannot meet its shortcomings. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. Those who accept Article 144... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 145... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 146... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 147... those who do not accept... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 128... those who do not accept... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 149... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 150... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 151... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 152... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 153... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 154... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 155... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 156... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 157... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 158... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 159... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 160... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 161... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 162... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 163... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 164... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 165... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 166... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 167... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 168... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 169... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0191par0472	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0192par0473	Mr. President, I want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0190par0474	When?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0191par0475	Now, on this item.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0192par0476	Now, for this item.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0190par0477	And the 170?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0192par0478	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0193par0479	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit03spe0190par0480	I will submit the 170th article to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who do not accept... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit04spe0190par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 45th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The number of decisions could not be found during the 170th vote. Now, I'm going to put the item back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. We continue the talks of Bill 341. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. I submit the 171st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. That's how the vote of substances in section six is completed. Now, let's begin the interviews of section seven. Chapter seven includes Articles 172/A, Article 15/B and 15/C, interim matter 1, interim matter 2, interim matter 3, interim matter 4, interim matter 5 and interim matter 6, Article 192 and Article 193. Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu will be acting on behalf of the National Movement Party Group who wants to speak on chapter seven. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit04spe0194par0015	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the seventh chapter of Sunei Property Law Bill 341. I salute your high council. For a long time, we've started our conversation by congratulating our martyrs and congratulating them. Unfortunately, we couldn't wake up to a bright, peaceful day today. Last night, bitter news came from the clashes at El Bab. In Operation Firat Shield, led by the Turkish Armed Forces. 16 of our soldiers were killed and 33 others wounded in El Bab. 18 of our wounded soldiers were reported to be in critical condition during the shootings of 133 DEAS terrorists. I wish our martyrs the grace of God and the healing of our wounded Mehmet. I offer my condolences to their families, to their relatives, and to the great Turkish nation, to our heroic army. And Arif Nihat Asia's hill of martyrs is not empty/There is someone waiting/And a breast is waiting to breathe/The top of the wind is not empty, its land is waiting for heroes/And a flag is waiting for the wind to surge. I believe their lines, as they burn us down, tell us about these days. With the explosion in Kayseri, terror has once again claimed the lives of our Mehmetchiks, our country instead of the fire... the terrorist operations of İstanbul and Kayseri, which have been declared by the PKK in İstanbul and Kayseri. On the one hand by the President, the ISIS terror organization, which is a guest of our country, the Russian ambassador whose soul is entrusted to us, and the assassination of Turkey's assassination attempt to prevent terrorists from infiltrating the Syrian border, by providing border security to the security of our nation, and the ISIS terror organization, which has been fought bravely in order to protect our own security. Dear lawmakers, when fighting the bloody PKK, ISIS, and ▪, there is always talk of a higher mind, external powers. That's right, our country's position, our nation's devotion to freedom doesn't agree with the policies of some countries. But whose fault is it that a common mind is not created against them? Isn't it the government's fault that for 14 years, it's been able to live, conduct, and act as it pleases in the judiciary? Are we going to continue to deny there's still a weakness in intelligence? In order to heal, to take precautions against these actions, we must first identify where we lack it, and I said, I have. We have to give up and come up with solutions. A show of unity and unity is not just to gather at martyr funerals and curse terror. The Council must be able to work together in resolving security-related weakness. The great Turkish nation has shown on July 15th that it can all be fought as one body against terrorism. However, the government has not taken a step towards establishing the union under the roof of the House or the bureaucracy. For the reasons we count above, we are still martyred, still feeling our pain in our hearts. Our country's position is clear, and I want to inform you that we will continue to work with all our strength as a nationalist Movement Party for Turkey, which is independent, maintaining its integrity through a sustainable foreign policy in the Middle East, which is boiling with Iran, Iraq and Syria. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have also been defined by the laws, regulations, and notifications of the laws issued regarding the implementation of the existing property rights of the test. It is imperative that the current system be revised in order to ensure a more qualified, effective transition to international contracts and EU legislation or to address problems faced in implementation. In this framework, arrangements for brands, geographical signs, design, patents and useful model rights have been made, including the protection of traditional product names that are not present in the current system. However, despite the need to regulate issues such as the unsolicitedness of the term union, the lack of concrete discrepancy, especially the lack of geographical markings, as stated in subcommittee studies, the legislation has not been ensured. The EU Marka Charter 2424 shall not be registered as a brand in the 7th article of the Mark Charter, while there is an arrangement for markings, which do not have any distinguishing characteristics, which do not have the distinction for new technical goods or services, and therefore will not be perceived as brands by consumers, the concrete discrepancy has not been made clear. Dear lawmakers, even though the Law on Ideas and Arts No. 5846 contains the principles of implementing the right to intellectual property, the concept of intellectual property in the bill has been considered a failure by our side. Basic relations between the right of testing property and the right of intellectual property are expected to be determined by the introduction of the definitions. In some cases, the administration seems to insist on its own practices, despite judicial decisions, although it is considered to be the solution to the problems faced in the process of judicial decisions. That's one of the reasons for the revision of the bill. The failure to repeat events that have been met between the institute and its applicants, which have not been resolved, and to define the rules clearly, was one of the aims of the law. The grounds for objection cannot be changed and new reasons cannot be added after the 20th article of the law proposal is mentioned after the period of appeal. Even though it is said, the grounds cannot be changed or added to new grounds can lead to loss of rights. Therefore, we thought it would be helpful to add to the Bill of Test Property, which would allow for a judicial decision to be made that would affect the issue of objection, after the period of appeal and before the process of appeals was completed. From time to time, there are objections between brand owners and those who want to register brands. Our goal is to define an efficient and efficient working system, and the introduction of the case results to the administration of the Turkish Patent Institute as long as the appeals process is under way, or after it is completed, will block new cases that may later be launched. This will be the first time the process will be completed within the Institute and the number of transactions reflected in the judiciary will be reduced. Dear lawmakers have been given mandates of units for the organisation of the Turkish Patent Institute, and new legislation has explained issues for personnel. It is also important to us that the staff have the social resources they deserve. With this change, we hope that it will help to repair the shortcomings mentioned in the Court's reports. Dear lawmakers, as the National Movement Party Group, find it incomplete, but I respectfully salute our nation, the High Assembly, hoping that the Sunei Property Law Bill will respond to its expectations and contribute to its interests.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit04spe0195par0030	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. Are there speakers for the People's Democratic Party Group?
tbmm-2016-12-22sit04spe0196par0032	No.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit04spe0195par0033	No. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Tahsin Tarhan will speak. Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit04spe0197par0037	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the seventh chapter of the Sunei Property Act, 341 rows, and I salute you all. Dear MPs, this is the final chapter of a very comprehensive bill. We're talking about the brand, the patent, the presidential system is being discussed upstairs in the Constitutional Commission, and on the other hand, news of the martyrdom from El Bab. You see what a picture you've put us, our people, our citizens. Precious MPs, TİİK, Central Bank, Treasury Undersecretary, Development Ministry data indicate that Turkey's economy is on the verge of a crisis. In the first quarter of 2017, the population, the tradesman, the farmer, the industrialists say that this crisis is not us, but the institutions we count above. Food to gas, electricity to natural gas, that's obvious. We've got bigger problems ahead of us. The basic way to survive this crisis is to overcome the existing political crisis. You can only overcome the political crisis by removing the State of Emergency, by strengthening democracy and the parliamentary regime. You can't solve this crisis by forcing a single man's regime. What investors come to this country in an environment of constant terrorist attacks? In this uncertain country tomorrow, the president you're trying to sell with a lie of stability will bring this country to an even more impasse. Unemployment is increasing day by day. Growth numbers are dropping. The poverty limit is $4,500. The hunger limit is 1,500 lira. Unrequited checks have increased by 3.2 percent. The unrequited check rate has increased by 4%. In the first ten months of 2016, 838,000 bonds were protested. These are 9.5 billion Turkish liras. The procedural bond has increased by 1.5 per cent. The bond amount increased by 20.8%. In November 2016, the number of closing companies increased 47.8%. The number of closed co-ops is 10.59 per cent. The actual number of business businesses has increased by 83.32 per cent. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, industry is the lifeblood of the economy. It's the location of organized industrial areas within the industry. During the plan and budget talks, the Minister said there were 294 OSBs, and announced their hailing rates at 71 per cent. Looking at it like that, it looks pretty good. The OSBs in Ankara are 59 per cent and the OSBs in İzmir are 69 per cent, but the OSBs are 50 per cent. In most cases, that number falls to 29 per cent. Now, I'm calling from here to Mr. Secretary: let's go together to an OSB with a 100 percent capacity rate, let's see how many factories there are for sale, how many companies for rent, how many businesses there are together. When you think about it from the OSB, will you find the same fulcrum ratios again? Dear lawmakers, we've told you over and over again, not only are incentive packets not made by tax pardons, or by drafting a law called the Production Reform Package, but its contents have nothing to do with production. What's in the middle anyway? How do we build military areas, olive fields, green fields? That's all you care about. No construction, no bridge, no bridge, no road. That's enough! It's full of roads, bridges, construction. You're building the main roads, but look at the side roads. You're already selling out what you're supposed to do. He serves a citizen of the state, doesn't sell services. You built a bridge, you indexed the transit fee for dollars. What other country has been so upset by another country's currency? His name is Osman Gazi, but his transfer fee is on the dollar. If Osman Gazi comes from the grave, he'll spit in your face. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, how are the OSBs in the environment, where we say they're important to the industry? Only 22 of the OSBs have dangerous waste management. In 112 OSB, there is a forward waste treatment facility, central waste treatment in 74 OSB, and home waste management in 72 OSB. OSB number 28 with proses waste management. 26 OSB has packing waste management. A total of 300 people work as environmental experts in the OSB, where 31,804 companies operate. It's all a result of an idea that consumes both industry and the environment. Dear lawmakers, we've said for years that Turkey is an agricultural country. In our country, known as the agricultural country, Turkey paid 400 billion Turkish liras for imports of agriculture and food from 2013-2015. Turkey received wheat from Ukraine and hay from Georgia. He got the barley from England and Croatia; from America; from India; from America; and from America; and from the rice, when it was not enough, from Vietnam, from Italy. He bought beans from Egypt and China and imported green lentils and nohudu from Canada. The pea was imported from Ukraine, from Bulgaria, from the sacrificial sheep, from Chile, from the cattle, from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear lawmakers, since we have a more important issue to discuss in this state, let's discuss the presidency and change the Constitution. I'm asking you for mercy, I'm asking you for mercy, I'm asking you for mercy. Dear lawmakers, there are things in this bill that we consider important, and I'd like to count in a few topics: the registration of new brand species will be provided. Geographical sign registration costs will be reduced. The designs will be registered sooner. The colleges will be entitled to the designs made by the teaching staff. The patents will be improved. The unsubstantiated patent system will be removed. A more flexible structure to prevent loss of rights. The patent potential at the universities will be activated. Test property legislation will be harmonised with international agreements and EU legislation. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, who will benefit from all this in this country's environment? When you strengthen democracy and the parliamentary regime and remove the State of Emergency, these actions mean something. I wish you all the best, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit04spe0198par0051	Thank you. Interviews on chapter seven are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in chapter seven to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. I submit to your votes the 15/A clause of 172, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 15/B under Article 172... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 15/C under Article 172 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 15/C, which is added to Article 55,000 and Article 172 of Sinei Property Law Act 341, which is currently in session. Tahsin Tarhan Kazim Arslan Ramadan Can Halil Eldemir Mustafa Şükrü Nazlı Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The Head of the Agency for Review and Evaluation shall conduct the proceedings directly with the Chairman of the Institution, who are on the side of the proceedings within two months of the decision, and who have been affected by the decision, directly against decisions taken by those who are on the basis of the decision. Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISSION PRESIDENT ZIYA ALTUNYALDİ (Connya) We commend you, Mr. President. Government? We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: With this arrangement, objections against the institution's decisions have been agreed upon by a strengthened authority. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. Those who accept Article 173... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept Article 174... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 175... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 176... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 177... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 178... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 179... those who refuse... are accepted. Those who accept the 180... those who refuse... are accepted. All those in favor of Article 181... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of Article 182... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of Article 183... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of Article 184... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of Article 185... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of Article 186... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of Article 187... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of Article 188... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of Article 189... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of the 190... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of Article 191... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of the temporary article 1... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of the interim matter... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of temporary matter... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of temporary matter 4... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of the Interim Article 5... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of temporary matter 6... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of Article 192... Those who don't agree... Sustained. All those in favor of Article 193... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The votes of the substances in section seven are complete. Before voting on the entire bill, Mr. Engin Altay, in favour of announcing the color of the game, is required by Article 86 of the Interior Charter. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit04spe0199par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. So when there's a law in the interest of the country, the four different political parties in parliament, in alliances, can legalise a 202-point law in a period of about three days along with the temporarys. I'm also giving this to Turkey as a message. In terms of the function of our Parliament, a major task has been carried out for the continuation and continuation of our parliamentary democratic system. It was also a law that all of our industry, our businessmen, all of our companies, from TISIAAD to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, were waiting for us to work in Turkish industry until TOBB. We also thank the ministry bureaucrats. I hope and hope that after this law, there will be more serious developments and actions in our industry. Our country will really, at this point, become a country that competes with the world. Our country, our nation, the Republican People's Party, is always prepared for any sacrifice. On this occasion, we thank all those who have worked in the law, not one by one. We're going to vote for the law. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit04spe0200par0112	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit04spe0201par0113	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-22sit04spe0200par0114	Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit04spe0201par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. And I hope this law is good for our country, and good for our industry. Here, once again, we've seen how important your compromise is. We soon passed a law that could be very difficult. We, the National Movement Party, will vote positively for this law. I'd like to congratulate the Minister, the Commission and the Ministry staff. Good luck, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-22sit04spe0202par0125	[[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Thank you. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you five minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, I read the clear vote on the Bill of Testial Property Act: ▪ Number of votes used : 232 [[x]] Isaac Gazel Ali Haydar Hakver In this way, the bill has been passed and passed. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, we are starting negotiations with Law Bill 443 in the 2nd row and the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with Law Bill 439 and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which ranked in the third place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions could not be found after this, the decision was made to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order to discuss them on Tuesday (December 27, 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I congratulate you on your new year. I wish the New Year to bring health, health, success and peace to all of us. I wish we could live as brothers for a year of 2017 and thank you all very, very much. Happy holidays.
