tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first off-the-book statement belongs to Düzce MP Faruk Özlü, who wants to talk about recent developments in the world's defence spending. Here you go, Mr. Ozlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I begin my words, I salute you with love and respect. Now, on April 5th, world defense spending was announced. You know, there's an organization called SIPRI. It's one of the most respected institutions in the world. Each year, SIPRI announces last year's defence spending in April next year. The figures were announced this year, and according to the figures, last year world defence spending totalled 1 trillion 676 billion dollars. This corresponds to 2.3 per cent of the world's illegal national product. Last year's defence spending increased by 1 per cent compared to the previous year. Now, the first five countries, the first five countries that spend most, are the United States, China, Saudi Arabia, Russia and England. The interesting thing here is that Saudi Arabia is in the top three. My dear friends, while the United States spends $596 billion, China spends $215 billion, Saudi Arabia, $87 billion. Regionally, defence spending in America, North America, Western Europe, South America, and Africa is low, while Asia, Australia, Central and Eastern Europe and Central America are increasing. An interesting development: last year there was a decline in the defence spending of oil-funded countries, except Saudi Arabia and Russia. The defence spending of Russia and Saudi Arabia increased last year, and we expect a decrease in the defence spending of these two countries next year. Again, the United States of America's defence spending is not expected to decline in the year we are in. My dear friends, you know how important arms trade is in the world. In the world's arms trade, America comes in number one, doing 1/3 of the world's arms exports, 33 percent alone. Russia is the second, China is the third, France is the fourth, Germany is the fifth. Turkey ranked 16th, Turkey ranked 16th among the most exported weapons in the world. When we look at imports, India, India, followed by Saudi Arabia, China in the third place, the Arab Emirates in the fourth place, Australia in the fifth; Turkey in the sixth place here. Now, my dear friends, when we look at Turkey's defence spending, Turkey's defence spending was around 32 billion Turkish liras, including the Ministry of Defence and Support Fund last year. This corresponds to 1.4 per cent of our non-national product. According to NATO's method of computing, Turkey's defence spending is 1.7 per cent of its GDP. You know, NATO recommends the two percent limit, below that. We spend 56 per cent of our defence spending on staff, we spend on soldiers; we spend 26 per cent on equipment; we spend 2 per cent on other infrastructure. To sum it up now, Turkey's defence spending is not too high, but below the world average, as well as below the NATO average. Our advice is to watch it around the world average. Second: When we look at defence spending, it's more about what we get from it than how much we spend. Turkey is a model country in this respect. Turkey needs a comprehensive defence and security reform. I think defence and security reform will have two basic goals and two basic consequences, such as economic efficiency and increased military efficiency. Not only Turkey, global security-related organisations also need a comprehensive reform; new global policies and regulations to boost the efficiency and efficiency of institutions such as the United Nations, OSCE, NATO. Dear friends, I hereby salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you, Your Grace. The second non-responsive statement is owned by Mardin MP Erol Dora (Second) who wants to talk about detention and arrest practices. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn promise of detention and arrests off the agenda. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, as we will recall, in 2009, a major political genocide was launched against Kurdish political movement under the name ▪KCK operations. Thousands of people have been taken into custody from party managers to mayors, unionists to academics, university students to journalists, have been arrested. To understand the extent of these political operations, we just need to look at a few numerical data. The total number of Peace and Democracy Party executives and employees taken into custody from April 14, 2009 to October 6, 2011 has been 7,748, including 3,895. Among those arrested were 10 mayors, 29 city council members, 8 deputy mayors, 2 mayors, 2 former mayors, 2 mayors, 2 mayors, and 4 vice-presidents of the county assembly. Then, as you know, the solution process came, the laws were changed, most of the inmates were evacuated. In that time, the AKP spokesmen, the government officials, did not do these operations, the AKP did the parallelists. They developed answers, defences, in the form of the AKP. Dear MPs, where we are now, the solution process has been put in the refrigerator as the government calls it, the solution table has been distributed, returned to a more violent and conflicting environment, and in parallel to this, it has been re-directed to the political movement in the HDP and DBP line. This orientation has become more dangerous than 2009. After the June 7th elections, more than 5,000 Kurdish civilians and politicians have been taken into custody since the beginning of August 2015, and more than a thousand others have been arrested. Arrests and arrests are still under intense control. Dear MPs, so far, the HDP has been arrested by 19 people elected mayor of the DBP line. 28 co-mayors have been detained, and 28 other co-mayors have been suspended. The number of arrested city council members has reached 36. 24 city council members have been relieved of their duties. In Diyarbakır, in Hakkari, in Turkey, in Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, However, this political operation wants to move to a new dimension, as you know. Despite all the pressures, the ugliest attacks against our party buildings, the MPs they sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as representatives of our people are also being asked to be involved in these political genocide operations under the name of the Constitution, which violates the Constitution, which currently stands. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are intended to be a parliament free of opposition; it is intended to be an academia free of different views; it is intended to be a media free of objective news. However, I think you'll all appreciate the extent and extent of the damage this approach has done to our people, our country, our international reputation. Dear lawmakers, we are going through a period where perhaps more civil and democratic politics should be strong than ever before. We have to solve all our problems in the country, especially the Kurdish issue, with the standards of advanced democracy, which is the obstacle to our democracy. Otherwise, more death, more blood, more tears. I invite everyone, in this sense, to strengthen democratic politics in the context of universal principles and to resolve our problems through dialogue and negotiation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0005par0037	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Bilekık MP Yaşar Tuzın, who wants to talk about the premiums and problems paid by BUG-KUR in accordance with Article 4 (b) of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510. Here you go, Mr. Charter.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0006par0042	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, in fact, before I begin my speech, I would like to give a warning to our Parliament Speaker and to the Council of Parliament as your friend who served on this bench for nine years. Today, three of our dear friends have taken a stand off the agenda. My promise is a matter of interest to millions of people, to our tradesmen and artists. On such an important matter -- look, Mr. Speaker, Vice President, the Court of President -- when will the government, the member of the Council of Ministers, give us no answers, and when will they give us valuable friends? We will carry out our legislature and our command, but we are looking at, there is no minister, there is no representative for the government; what we speak on the stand remains on record. So, in the 26th term, the Council of Ministers -- dear friends, speaking for you -- has made it a tradition. These initiatives at the point of disparagement of parliament must be terminated by the Council of Ministers. So, while we are carrying out our two basic tasks here in the Constitutional Court, I regret to say once again that the Council of Ministers has been so insensitive. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, I have been promised to address the difficult situation of our tradesmen and artists on the stand. Our tradesmen and artists are the fundamental pillar of our economic and social structure, an important balance element of our society, a major contribution to employment with small investments, and a substantial share in production. A tradesman means solidarity. If the tradesman is exhausted, the fundamental structure of society with him will be corrupted. That is why, according to our Constitution, it is the government's basic duty to protect and support the tradesmen and artists, but let alone support the government's economic policies, our tradesman has been victimised by a heavy blow for fourteen years. Almost everywhere, our shop owner, who can't compete with the chain of shopping malls and markets, even between the neighborhoods, has to close down his shop without even a bill. Our shopkeeper can't even pay his tax debt, so he's either in debt to the banks, struggling with loans, or locking his door, closing his business. During the 14-year period of AKP rule -- my dear friends here -- 2 million tradesmen and artists closed their shop, 2 million tradesmen and artists in the AKP's power. This averages 350 businesses per day. My dear friends, in three months of this year alone, 23,000 of our tradesmen have hung locks on the door. Among those who had to close the business are the first to have grocery stores, buffets, coffee shops, barber shops, restaurants, and truckers who ended their business. With the foreign policy being implemented, not a single neighbouring country remains where our relations are good. My dear friends, I think we should take care of our tradesmen, who resist at least to retire and earn my pension. Because the extraordinary increase in bonuses has really bent the back of our tradesman, as you know, our tradesman is in real trouble. You've burdened our tradesmen with increasing minimum wage. You've raised the premiums by 30 percent. See, before your time -- I brought official documents -- so you're saying that when the AKP came to power before and after the AKP's power, in 2002, our business and artist paid 49 lira, but in the same year, his salary is 261 lira; in 2002, the tradesman and artist pays 49 lira, and in the same year, his salary is 261 lira. So he gets five times more, he gets five times more than he pays. So, what happened in AKP power? Now our tradesman and artist pays close to $568, or $600, in exchange for a salary of 1,200, so the tradesman and artist looks to be seven times poorer in thirteen years because of the AKP. On behalf of our tradesmen and artists, I once again condemn the insensitive, insensitive minister of the House, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0007par0049	Thank you, Mr. Charter. Members of parliament, on April 17, 1993, we welcome again our 8th President, Mr. Turgut Ozal, who received the mercy of Hakk. At a time when our country is under very difficult conditions, the establishment of national will has made significant developments in the democratisation and development process in Turkey; it has not surrendered to anyone but the nation, leaving a separate place in the hearts of our citizens, with the values of the nation, economic, political, social and predictions. On this occasion, we welcome Mr. Turgut Ozal, the man of the nation that lays the throne in the hearts, once again as the Supreme Assembly of the National Assembly of Turkey, and say, "Let his place be paradise." Congressmans, I'm now reading the names of the MPs who entered the system, and I'm going to promise you a minute according to 60. Mr. Engin, Mr. Topal, Mr. Oğum, Mr. Akin, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Özdemir. Yes, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0008par0058	Mr. President, lawmakers, it's a very important problem for thousands of people who have vocational training to not be considered underinsurance loans for the hours being employed as candidate apprentices, apprentices, or occupational internships. Apprentices and interns are learning both their professions and making an important contribution to our country's economy. Unfortunately, however, the amount of time they're working on is not considered in the retirement calculation. Having this period covered by retrofitting debt will be a vital provision that will satisfy this injury and encourage vocational education. We would like to remind the government again that this practice, which is contrary to the principle of the social state, must end immediately and that this sacrifice must be resolved. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0007par0060	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0009par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to address the representatives of the government, as it is known, there are a total of 649,118 Dekar greenhouse areas in our country. Hatay is also a greenhouse in our province and is ranked eighth in Turkey's greenhousery. One of the most important problems affecting the greenhouse sector is marketing, marketing. Giving products to foreign markets is an essential part of the greenhouse industry. How were the greenhouse producers in Hatay province affected after the war in Syria in 2011? What changes have there been in production and marketing, especially after the war? What measures will be taken to prevent that? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0010par0066	Mr. Result...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0011par0068	Mr. President, thank you. On December 29, 2015, it is completely illegal for Arif Ala. President of the Ministry of National Education and Control for 800 teachers who participated in a day-long act of peace-sustaining labour in Hatay province of Hatay, who participated in an effort to defend peace in our country's union, to open an investigation into the heads of the State National Board of Education -- the brother of the Interior Minister -- by giving instructions to the presidents of the Education Board. State Department 1. At his apartment, District 12. All decisions made by his office and the Adana District Administration Court say that the workers who quit will not be punished based on union decisions. In the same way, the Constitutional Court has decided that teachers who want to legally participate in union-designation activities cannot be blamed under Article 90. The issue is clearly organised in Article 11 of the European Court of Human Rights. We demand that the Minister of National Education step in and stop this unlawful interrogation immediately.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0010par0070	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0012par0072	Thank you. Because of the change of the shoreline in Avsha Island, Balıkesir Province, we are witnessing the victims of some of the property owners who remain on private property shores. Cases have been concluded regarding the long-standing cancellation of the deed. Many landlords have been robbed of their property. According to our agreement, some property owners are also deprived of this right to compensation. They also claim that even though it remains within the shoreline, there are properties that have not been decided to destroy, they are facing a double standard in this sense. They've grown from the teeth, and their homes have been taken away from them for over 25 years. It is unacceptable for some of our citizens, who have been victimised by the destruction of their homes, to be deprived of compensation. It is incompatible with the principles of the state of law that the right to property, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, should be eliminated in such a way.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0013par0075	Mr. President, where are the ministers?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0014par0076	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0015par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Road fillings are being done in the flat area in the road construction of the General Directorate of Roads, which continues between the town of Niğde Gölcuk and the district of Nevşehir Derinkuyu. In these studies, farmers with land in the region say they are victims. Many farmers in the village of the regiment say that the possibility of moving to the fields as a result of increased directional application for the issue has also been eliminated, and according to this, they are victims. Citizens expect authorities to come to town to assess their petitions and listen to their troubles. The problem can be solved by creating easy access to the roads divided. It is also the request of citizens to arrange the path between Lake and Farm as a double road and to expand the road. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0016par0082	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0017par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday was the 23rd anniversary of the death of our 8th President, Turgut Ozal, one of the most important figures in Turkish political life. Our President, Ozal, is a political leader who has led our country to jump the age of economics, production and exports. Exports, which are $5.9 billion, exceeded the $10 billion limit in the Autonomous period of 1987, averaged 5.2 per cent in Turkey, and the rate of imports has been 81.1 per cent. Mr. Ozal, who has done such great service, has been subjected to the attack of external and internal enemies, such as the AK PARTY. In the face of these threats, he saw and wanted our democracy as the presidential system of the system to ensure our economic development and to pave the way for the great Turkey. Therefore, we must implement the new constitution, which is based on the presidential system of the EC PARTY. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I hereby salute our 8th President, Turgut Ozal, with mercy and gratitude, the great assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0018par0088	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0019par0090	Mr. President, first of all, I'm celebrating the founding anniversary of the village institutes. And thanks to the work they've done in the field, I'd like to thank all the graduates of the village institute. My question: Will new dorms be made for the study and housing of our children who work in elementary schools and secondary schools to prevent sexual abuse of children at the Ensar Foundation? Two: How many foundations are there in our naval province for the housing of children who attend elementary school and secondary schools in the homes of the foundations? How many students do we have in these dorms? Three: How many cases of child abuse have occurred at the Ensar Foundation or at other foundations? Have any of these investigations been conducted? How many are there, who are punished? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0020par0095	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0021par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to Mr. Süleyman Nobleman, Minister of Labour and Social Security: Millions of our citizens, who have been victims of general health insurance, are waiting for the arrangement to come in the coming weeks. However, there are still great flaws. Although you plan to erase the premium debt by the age of 25, as long as the income test and premium criteria are not changed, the problem will be back on the table every three or four years. Do you intend to change these methods of computation? Also, considering that most of our young people now have a master's degree, the start of graduation, job search is over 25. Do you plan to raise this age? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0022par0101	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0023par0103	Mr. President, by the power vested in us by our people, we are trying to address the problems of our province, our region, our country, within the framework of our legislature of Turkey. But, unfortunately, none of them have been answered, except for 33 questions that I've given in a month, each of which is urgent, and a few of them as well as a few of my questions. There is still not a single step in the matter of nuts that are particularly concerned about 8 million producers and the industry. The answers are a series of classic sentences written by bureaucrats, free of knowledge, unsatisfactory, unsatisfactory and unsatisfactory. I'm guessing my friends have similar complaints. I urge the ruling and ministers to be sensitive to our motions, and I expect the opposition to change its attitude, which therefore defies the public. Besides, I sincerely congratulate the establishment of our village institutes. Survivor...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0022par0106	Mr. Tuncer...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0024par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. The town of Kayaduzuzu is a town in Merzifon district where the law was adopted during the AKP period while the town of Kayaduzu is the only municipality in Merzifon district. Kayadüzu is divided by the Black Sea and the Istanbul road. About seven or eight years ago, there were double roadworks in the village of Kayadüzizu, the necessary nationalizations were made, but the side roads to be built next to the double road have not yet been done, and the village is more victims than that; it is unfortunately, entering from the opposite direction, facing accidents. We demand the opening of the side roads, which are immediately nationalized by the 7th District Department of Highways. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0025par0112	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0026par0114	Thank you. On December 25, 2015, Deputy Governor of Edirne Dursun Ali Şahin is acting as the deputy governor of Edirne Province of Tanç. Although former Governor Dursun Ali Şahin retired about four months ago, his absence as governor of Edirne is causing some uncertainties and many decisions to be postponed. The deputy governor's position of attorney leads to a deputy governor's reflex and a void of authority. According to this, nearly four months after the previous governor retired, why wasn't a new governor appointed? When are you planning on having Edirne appoint a governor in our province? Don't you think the deputy governor's appointment as deputy governor is a void of authority? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0027par0117	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0028par0119	According to the report on the conditions and proposals of early childhood education in Turkey, the 5-year-old schooling rate, along with the 4+4+4 education system that began in 2013, has been reduced from 53.8 per cent to 53.8 per cent. It turns out that children who have not yet completed their physical, mental, sensory development have failed to practice early schooling with this education system before the required number of qualified training staffs and adequate infrastructure in schools have been completed. I would like to point out the importance of the assessments of civil society pennies working in the field of the Ministry of National Education, while considering the formation of their personalities, development and the reevaluation of early childhood education, and the impact on the development of children who participate in early childhood education with this system through scientific studies and research.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0027par0120	Mr. Bozkurt...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0029par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. On April 17th, you remembered the deceased, Turgut Ozal, and let me complete one missing thing: the 76th anniversary of the village institutes, which the young republic has presented as the most original Turkish model in the history of education in the world. On this occasion, I humbly and gratefully remember the late Minister of National Education Hasan Aeli Yücel, the father of the village institutes -- Tonguz Baba Ismail Hakk Tonguç, and wish to change this order, which soon leaves our children at the mercy of child rapists.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0027par0124	Lastly, Mr. Durmusoglu, please.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0030par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 23rd anniversary of the death of our late President, Turgut Özal, our 8th President, who destroyed all taboos and started the mental revolution that had been set before the Republic of Turkey to remove the obstacles set before the Republic of Turkey, I remember with mercy, gratitude and respect. The deceased, Ozal, has also been a pioneer in how to take care of a statesman who has been united with his nation, who has been united with his values. Our nation will never, ever forget the great services and sincere personality of Turkey for its integration, change and transformation. No one has any doubt that we will continue our journey with the late Adnan Menderes, continuing with the late Turgut Özal, who has achieved great momentum with our current President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. We will continue to answer with the statement of the late Turgut Özal after the assassination attempt on him, against all the altars trying to create new obstacles to our country's development, against all of us trying to frighten us with terror: there is no one who will take the life of God but his will.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0027par0129	Thank you. Mr. Akçay, you've entered the system. I'll give you two minutes. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0031par0134	Mr. İlknur Eyüsöz, father of Justice and Development Party Deputy Chairman, we have been informed of the death of Salih İstöz. As the National Party of Action, we pray for God's mercy on the deceased. We offer our condolences and condolences to all those who are close to you, especially Mr. Tüyöz and his family. Again, we understood the 23rd anniversary of the death of our 8th President, the late Turkut Ozal. We will also remember the deceased, Turgut Ozal, with his precious service. These services have been historic. We say God rest his soul again. Manisa 2. On 9 April, the District Administration Court ruled that the second Environmental Effect Evaluation, which was approved by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, or CED report, was prepared for the removal of about 2 million trees in the Turgutlu district of Çiça. Çi Mountain is in the middle of Turkey's most efficient plains. In these plains, there are many products that have a very special place in Turgutlu, Manisa, Alaşehir, Salihlive, Sultaniye, Akhisar Plain and Turkish agriculture. While high pressure in the world to mine nickels is used in the process of lyclic, it is used in Mount Çiç, which is no longer used anywhere else in the world. Because of the recent sulfuric acids and rains that will eventually occur in the open lycic process on Mount Çiç, the geography, which extends from Alaşehir, Salihli, Turgutlu and Manisa, is under great threat. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0032par0140	One minute, plus... Let's finish it, please. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0033par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu, we've been under a lot of pressure about the mountain nickel mine. We can't resist. He used his statements. On various occasions, what pressures did the minister suffer? Who pressured us? We did not get an answer. We expect the CED report to be cancelled by the district administration court to be very well evaluated and afforded, and the Ministry will act accordingly. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0034par0146	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Congressmans, members of the group, the vice presidents...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0035par0148	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0034par0149	I promise. ...on Thursday (April 7, 2016) a meeting was held with Parliament Speakers in the chairmanship of our Parliament, a number of principles were made. So one of these principle decisions is that we're going to give our group presidents two plus one minute before they go on the agenda, and then we're going to promise them that they're going to have requests, demands, for a minute. On this occasion, I give my word to Mr. Special. I'll increase your time for two minutes if it doesn't get there, but hopefully we'll finish in three minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0036par0155	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, we regret the loss of the father of Mr. İlknur Eyüsöz, Vice President of the Justice and Development Party, and our condolences to him. You remember our 8th President, Turgut Ozal, asking for God's mercy. In 1940, when Turkish Minister of National Education Hasan Aeli Yücel, Ismail Hakkk Tonguç, and at the point of action, we are grateful for the practice of village institutions in Turkey, the revolution of our people, the people of Anatolia, the people of Thrace, as a method of putting science into focus and the goal of modern civilization and raising 18,000 teachers from the villages of Turkey, leading modern, scientific education and until now carrying us, and the revolution of the village institutions of the villages, once again, after the anniversary of the founding of the year. In recent years, this Parliament has discussed the establishment of many commissions. For example, the Soma Commission was established not before the disaster, but after. The Doping Commission was established at the top of the 40pınar after our Olympic champion daughter was doped. Unfortunately, the Commission for Violence Against the Doctor was established yesterday after the death anniversary of Dr. Ersin Arslan, a victim of an attack in front of all of us. We bless those who have lost their lives by being subjected to violence against themselves and to all physicians in his person, and we condemn it once again. Likewise, the Commission, known in public as the Karaman Commission...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0037par0162	Let's complete it, Mr. Special. I'll give you one minute more time.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0036par0164	After an incident in the home of the Ensar Foundation and KAIMDER, it was not founded by the Justice and Development Party's votes, but was established the next day as a result of the common social reflex that developed that night. We decided to set up the commission on March 24th. Opposition parties announced their commissions on 28 March, 29 March and 1 April, and the ruling party only delayed the establishment of the Commission 15 days on 15 April, and we were still unable to hold a formal vote on the Commission's election in parliament. The ruling party, which stalled the investigation commissions for months on end in such a matter of such importance, with such precision, did so, 15 days after the opposition parties tasked this commission with naming it one day apart. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We offer it to our people's appreciation.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0037par0167	Thank you. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0038par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we've learned of the death of the father of Mr. First Minister of Justice and Development Party, Deputy Minister of Justice and Development. We wish the deceased God's mercy, and our condolences and condolences to Your Grace and to his family. As you pointed out, the 23rd anniversary of the death of Mr. Turgut Özal, the 8th President, is being commemorated. While Turgut Özal has many aspects to be criticised during his political life, he is a politician who has made bold moves to democratize and resolve the Kurdish issue with the talks. In this sense, their important dogma was a politician who destroyed important taboos. After many security policy and operational processes, these bold moves on negotiations, democratic political solutions, and peace have unfortunately cost Mr. Ozal (Mr. Ozal) his life. As the Democratic Party of Peoples, we would like to repeat our belief that his death was definitely suspicious and suspicious. Despite these doubts and doubts expressed by the public so far, we would like to say that we find it plausible that effective procedures involving forensic medicine have not been carried out and that some information and findings that will satisfy the public, satisfy the family, satisfy the people of Turkey have not yet been disclosed. At that time, heavy purges were taking place in many areas of life, if remembered. Even in the army, from Bahtiyar Aydın to Eşref Bitlis...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0039par0174	Let's complete it, Mr. Baluken. One more minute, please.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0038par0176	...we want to remind you that a lot of people who have prioritized the treaty and the solution have died in this way, suspiciously and suspiciously. In this respect, perhaps once again, we would like to express how important it is to face these murders in Turkey, and how the Assembly must certainly examine all these painful events in the historical process in order to uncover the truth. Once again I wish God's mercy to Mr. Ozal, and to his family and all our peoples, our condolences from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0040par0179	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0041par0182	Mr. President, we have received a painful news today, our Deputy Director, Aksaray MP Mr. İlknur Eyüsöz. Uncle Salih, the father of Mr. Eziz, is dead. I ask for God's mercy, and for his relatives, and for our president's patience. God rest his soul. His funeral will be removed from Aksaray tomorrow at noon prayer, and I want to announce it. And, Mr. President, dear friends, as you know, yesterday was the anniversary of the death of our 8th President, Mr. Turgut Ozal. Özal was one of the special leaders who opened the way for Turkey to move forward on a civilian route after the coup of September 12th. He's always stood by the public, fighting the elements of the custody system. Although his death hampered the reform process in Turkey, his vision of change continues today. Once again, I cherish the memory of Ozal, the life of our nation. Also, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as you all know, these are the Happy Birthday Weeks of the Prophet we remember and celebrate with different events. The Prophet was sent as a mercy to all the worlds at a time when right and wrong were not distinguished. The Qur'an, who carried the message of Islam's ancient message and was a guide to the guidance of all mankind, delivered our great Book to mankind. As God's Messenger, he became a faithful trustee, and Muhammad became confident. I wish you all the blessings of this blessed day, the year of your birth. I wish for peace and peace everywhere, especially the geography of Islam. Peace be upon the beloved Prophet, who has filled our hearts with mercy, love, love, and love at such a time in our country and in our region as terror has caused us to suffer. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0042par0187	Thank you, Mr. Turan. We, too, have been taught by the death of the esteemed fathers of Mr. İlknur Eyüsöz, Deputy Chairman of the Justice and Development Party, as the Court of Parliament. We also ask God's mercy for our uncle Salih, and offer our condolences to his relatives. May his place be in heaven. Again, Happy Birth Week is a very important week for our faith, for the whole world's peace. On this occasion, we celebrate once again the Happy Birth Week, with the Lord of the Prophet's message of peace and brotherhood, especially to every troubled geography in the process, the entire world. And on this occasion, we thank you all again.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0043par0192	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0042par0193	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0043par0194	Mr. President, there's been a meeting and decisions made last week that you've just referred to as the esteemed Speaker of Parliament and the Speaker of Parliament. As the Republican People's Party Group, it is possible to divide these decisions by three: First of all, the decisions have been made. For example, a joint agreement has been sought in each parliamentary deputy's individual practices, which is the right thing to do. One, decisions have been made, they're in your discretion, they're open to our negotiations, but there are decisions that can't be made. For example, there are some issues referred to by the Civil Code without any suspicion, and there are some things that are very clear. About these issues, of course, we've begun to implement what we think you should be informed of what our esteemed vice presidents have done to us, under the signature of our esteemed Speakers of Parliament, and what we think you can get, by commenting broadly on the reevaluation of certain issues and issues mentioned in a meeting with the group's MPs in the final article of this text, which is delivered to our side. We have to state that the meeting on the other matter is extremely urgent for us. Otherwise, there are some things that are not acceptable to us about the way that it's implemented, that it's transformed into a teamule. We've decided that it's appropriate for him to go into both reports and to present it to the Speaker of Parliament through you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0044par0197	Thank you, Mr. Special. Of course, earlier, you'll appreciate that there was a meeting of members of the group of each political party's members in the chairmanship of our Parliament. There, too, were decisions made to ensure a number of applications. Then, there was a similar meeting with the Speakers of Parliament, and there it was. Now, much broader, more detailed, here, in order not to lower the voice of democratic opposition, but also to ensure that the Parliament works efficiently, hopefully, we'll have a meeting again in the presidency of our Speaker of Parliament and the agenda of our Parliament as soon as possible. I'll pass it on again. As soon as possible, hopefully, we'll be able to establish an application union here by holding this meeting, and I think it'll be much better for both our Parliament and for our nation, and for all political parties, and I thank you. We're on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and now I'm going to have the motions read separately. In third place, the motion to read the parliamentary research motion will be read over 500 words, but will be included in the full text of the motion magazine. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The press is one of the most important elements of the protection and strengthening of democracy, as well as the basis for the establishment of human rights-based democratic and social order. Freedom of expression and press, our Constitution, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the European Convention on Human Rights are guaranteed. Despite the provisions of our Constitution and the ECHR on freedom of the press, freedom of the press in our country, statistical data shows that it has reached alarming levels and that many journalists have been arrested. Legal regulations on freedom of expression and press in a country in which democracy is fully functioning with its institutions and boards must be carried out in accordance with the Constitution and universal laws. The practice must be carried out in the same way and understanding. Antidemocratic practices, in order to ensure legal security of freedom of expression, the state and legal frameworks of arrested journalists, we demand that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, according to Articles 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. The press is one of the most important tools for both the creation of thought and the explanation. The press is doing important tasks in creating a specific mental environment as an active tool in public. Since it is an effective way to explain the idea through the press, it requires that the arrangement of "free press" in democratic systems be organised at least with the same value and width as freedom of general thought. Therefore, political authorities are condemned to embody freedoms in order to ensure freedom of the press. Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, "Everyone has freedom of expression and expression. This right includes freedom of opinion and freedom of public authority and freedom to receive or give information or ideas without the issue of the country's borders." It does. In Article 28 of our Constitution, "The press is free, it cannot be censored." Freedom of press and expression is legally guaranteed. At this point, however, AKP governments seem to be going to more and more severe practices on freedom of press and expression every day. The methods such as illegal closures of newspapers and TVs, trustee appointment, have been one of the most applied methods by AKP governments. Media organisations and press workers have been subjected to pressure from power and have been left facing unemployment in the increasingly monopolitic sector. Even the smallest criticism of power has left journalists unable to do their job. As such, journalists have been asked to be fired by people close to the government. Journalists have been arrested and placed in prisons for their reports, unprecedented in the world. Turkey is ranked 149 percent among 180 countries in the World Press Freedom ranking each year by the Paris-based International Organization for Journalists Without Borders (RSF). This is a great shame and shame for our country. The RSF, which advocates international media freedom, has shown the rise of internet censorship as an example of decline in Turkey, the closure of cases, critics, journalists, and bans on certain issues. According to the detention platform (TGDP), 32 journalists were arrested and convicted as of December 11, 2015, with 4 of them in Turkey's prisons privileged. In order to ensure legal security of the obstacles, freedom of expression, and the legal frameworks of arrested journalists, we propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under the 98th and 104 and 105th Articles of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Civil Charter. [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 4) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Samsun]] [[Ankara]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[Edirne]] [[Slap]] [[Ankara]] [[Malatya]] 17) Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Scholarship]] [[Antalya]] [[Burdur]] [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The foreign policy of AKP governments, especially in their last years, has caused our country to face major international problems. The problems of poor foreign policy management have now affected our citizens directly, as well as the damage to our country's reputation. Both economic and political evil has come to a position that has caused our citizens to lose their lives. In foreign policy, generally in the Middle East and in private, the sectarian attitude in Syria has been explained by long-standing examples of logistical support for groups the world considers a terrorist organisation. Moreover, new ones are added to these claims day after day. Finally, the process that has been developed since a Russian plane was shot down also causes our country to face major economic problems in particular. As a result of the Syrian policy with Russia indirectly, the biggest harm lies in our districts, which is at the head of our provinces, Hatay. In September 2012, we will pray at the Emevi Mosque in Damascus as soon as possible. The dream became a religious approach, even in the form of death, for our citizens who died in the explosion in Reyhanlı. In other words, our citizens have died in Ankara, Suruç, especially Hatay, and in many other provinces. In Hatay, border trade has been destroyed as well as the loss of lives due to AKP's foreign policy. In that sense, the Hatays suffered a significant social and economic injury. Previously, in many countries of Iran, Syria, Lebanon and Europe, Hatay was coming to trade and trade, while now the number of foreign and domestic tourists have declined due to the threat of jihadist groups. However, refugees from Syria have been used as cheap labor force today because of the wrong policies, although we have shown hospitality for refugees from our country and the people of Hatay. The city's serious unemployment has reached far greater rates, especially young unemployment. At the same time, the city is troubled by what the prime minister calls a violent group of young people walking around the streets of Hatay. In this regard, with respect to the opening of the Constitution's Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, especially Hatay, to investigate the damage caused by the wrong foreign policy of AKP governments in our country, both socially and economically, and to determine alternative methods for solving them by considering experts. [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] 5) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] 6) Bulent Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] 7) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[Artvin]] 9) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Army]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Edirne]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Zonguldak]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and the Constitution's 98th Amendment, under Article 104th and 105th Articles of the Civil Charter of the Constitution, on the basis of the curfews and the declaration of military safety zones that have been applied in Turkey in recent months, on the basis of the Constitution, on the basis of the Constitution's 98th, on the basis of the European Conventions on Human Rights, and on the basis of Article 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution, on the basis of the discovery of administrative authorities making and implementing these decisions and identifying rights violations that citizens have seen, on the basis of the basis of the rights violations. [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] 3) Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] 11) Burcu Çelik Özkan [[Mwah.]] [[Siirt]] [[Siirt]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Tunceli]] [[Van]] 23) Tuğba Hezer Özturk [[Van]] The legal and political steps of the democratic and peaceful solution of the Kurdish problem were halted on February 28, 2015 by a consensus called the Dolmabahçe agreement, which was launched on February 28, 2015. First, the committees were not allowed to meet with Abdullah Ocalan, an important actor of the solution process and the Dolmabahçe agreement, as of April 5, 2015. The bill for the failure of public will, which then appeared in the June 7, 2015 general elections, and the loss of the government's power opportunities by itself, was cut off to the process of resolving the process, and it was first stated that the process had stopped, and then it was explained by authorities that the solution process had been frozen and had been put in the refrigerator. On July 20, 2015, in Suruç, we will not go back to the 90s, where violence was based on the solution of the Kurdish problem, as a result of the bomb attack on a group of 200 people who were all civilians and students. Despite its rhetoric, the possibility of martial law, extreme practices, and increasing violence continues to be destroyed and destroyed. In 22 counties, 231 districts have been declared military security zones, and as if all rural areas in and out of the region are closed to citizens' in-and-outs and agriculture and livestock activities, the only means of livelihood for the people in the region. On the other hand, from 16 August 2015 to 11 December 2015, curfews have been declared 52 times in 17 districts, with a total of 1,299,061 residents, according to the 2014 census, and the longest of which has lasted for 14 days. According to the Human Rights Association's 2015 data, 171 people were injured during this period, including 171 soldiers, police, rangers, 195 militants, 157 civilians (45 children), 523 people lost their lives, 338 were injured, security forces, 145 militants, 70 civilians. In the cities and rural settlements where the operations are being carried out, all services which are mandatory for established life, especially the housing of citizens, businesses, vehicles, cities, electricity and water networks have been suspended. Citizens' access to health services and public services as a whole has been blocked by such decisions during the ban. From the beginning of the conflict to this day, the lack of a criminal or administrative investigation has been launched on the lives and property losses of citizens so far, has also raised concern that the policy of incarceration of past years will continue. The curfew decrees, which have caused such severe violations of rights, are also lacking in legal and legal grounds. Law 5442, which is based on bans, has not made it clear that curfew warrants have been issued. The insistence of these decisions on Law 5442 is a clear violation of the Constitution and international contracts that Turkey sided with. It is imperative that parliamentary research be opened to determine the measures to be taken by identifying the victims of citizens, and by investigating the legal basis and the violations of rights imposed by the rule of law, which has been ignored. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, according to the decision made, we move on to the special agenda of operations. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group in the first place, we are starting talks with Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken and Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel. About the opening of a geneor for Foreign Minister Mevlüt Seroglu on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group (11/5) on the charge that Turkey and the surrounding countries have led to instability and that the global equation has been responsible for its policies and that it is responsible for not becoming an actor. Government? Here. I do not re-read the motion because it was previously published and was read in the 71st Union of the General Assembly, dated April 12, 2016. According to Article 99 of the Constitution, there will be a commitment to one member of the Constitution's proposals, one MP on behalf of political party groups, and one minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holders, 20 minutes for the groups and the government. Now, I read the names of the members in question: Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken; on behalf of the groups, Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İstanbul MP Celal Doğan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ardahan MP Özturk Yılmaz on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Malatya MP Taha Özhan on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. The first statement belongs to Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken (Idris Baluken) as the owner of the motion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Bauken, ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0045par0389	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our group's motion for a geneorization. I salute you all. In fact, the parliament today's table is an example of both the order of the ruling party and the order of the government being empty in this way, showing the public and opposition's sense of control over the motion, the ruling party's long-standing respect for its control. On the other hand, it should also be expressed here as a token of the opposition and the public's respect for the ruling party's control of the opposition and the public, as well as the fact that the public has been saving a decision on blocking the right to control, and that four geneores have been opened on the same day, perhaps not seen in Parliament practice. We're actually talking about the practice of the Foreign Minister as a member of the government, a government that hasn't really respected Parliament's will in a long time. Unfortunately, the Foreign Minister didn't bother to come to Parliament, not to inform the General Assembly, MPs and Turkey of the events that occurred three days in a row on the border of Kilis last week alone. We have learned not from statements made by ministers or politicians but from the visit of the Undersecretary of MIT and the Chief of Staff to the Church. In the past month and a half, no citizen or member of parliament has a single shred of information following the agenda of these attacks on the loss of six citizens in the church, the injuries of ten of them, and we have to evaluate it according to the news we received from newspapers, media screens. Thus, all these nonresponsive approaches, even the understanding itself that disregards the will of Parliament and the will of the people, demonstrate how much this minister deserves this gene. Of course, it's impossible to get into a lot of topics in that ten-minute period; I suppose, if I talk here for ten hours without interruption, I can only express where the wrong policies that the Foreign Minister has established have led our country. So, in very brief headlines, let me try to explain here why the Secretary of State, Mr. Sargeglu, deserves this motion for the gene. Now, the first one, as you all know, is a broken Syrian and Middle Eastern policy. I think the main axis of the geneorical debate will be this collapsed Syrian and Middle Eastern policy at its center. The second key topic is an EU and European relationship now based solely on the refugee threat. The third key topic, including tourism and the economy, is the Russian crisis, which shakes social and social life deeply. The fourth important title is relations with the United States, which are now almost disguised to make an appointment and then present the appointment as a success to the public. The fifth, based on pragmatism, is the government of Israel (X), which calls Israel (the state of terrorism) and is in the stalemate of domestic political material makers, with the precious loneliness of ▪ the government of Israel again, and the attitude waiting for an appointment at the gates of the Jewish lobby in America. It's possible to increase the headlines. So it's not possible to rank here separately from each country, but it's probably an important example for Egypt to be thrown out of İstanbul to pay the dues. There is no need to talk too much about Iraq - the neighbouring country that is near us. However, people, in and out of Sakarya, the people who did the literature in and out of Mosul have first handed over the Musul consulate to ISIS gangs, and then, as a result of the coalition bombing, even the blowing of the winds now reveals how successful this foreign policy is. We're looking at a total isolation of foreign policy that's only trying to survive through a few networks of dictatorships. We have to present here a defeat looking for a way out over a Suud dictator with a gold toilet on his shoulder, ISIS, al-Qaeda card pocket. Of course, we need to express a depletion of zero problems in the region and zero neighbors and precious loneliness from the spread of the Neosmanist imagination. So if you ask, does the minister, who has all these failed grades, have any success at all? Yes, he's shown some really successful jobs. Especially on his last trip to the United States, his perfect reception of President Erdoğan could be expressed as a note to the House of Success. In fact, the reception was so successful that it was said that President Erdogan had an impression that he had landed in Ankara instead of America. Of course, making the president feel at home at the destination should be described as the only success story for the Foreign Minister. With all this painting that we're talking about, let no one test our patience, especially Prime Minister Davutoglu's foreign policy; let no one test our power; no one moves leaves in the area without our knowledge. If this is the most obvious example of all the unsubstantiated approaches, we can give them through the Archika. After an unresolved exclusion of the original account, I think it's important to express how the international actors, along with the brushes they've uncovered, have been slinked gently, what kind of evasive action they've taken here. Fortunately, in this whole dark picture that we're talking about, inside and out, we're all drifting towards anxiety, and thankfully, by signing development and strategic agreements with the Komor Islands, once again, this country will never leave its shoes on the inside and outside, it has been shown by this government to friends and enemies. Now, we're dealing with the practice of the government and the Secretary of State who's been living through all the destruction we've been talking about. Of course, in detail, our friends will also talk about the particular parentheses of Syrian and Middle Eastern policy. The Syrian policy, created on ethnic and religious basis, envisioned the taking of Damascus in just a few hours, the prayer at Emevi Mosque, let's just say that it didn't happen, a regime change that would take place within three months. For this reason, relations with the Muslim brothers and sisters in the region were not enough, they had all sorts of dirty relations with violent gangs such as ISIS, Al Nusra, Ahrar al- Damascus, Ceysul Islam. After it was revealed that the regime would not be changed, the gang structures were attacked on Rojava, and the Kurdish people themselves were asked to break the will of the people of Rojava on the basis of their status there. So, I'd like to try to sum it up -- because time is insufficient -- as the architect of a foreign policy that has been completely bankrupted, I would like to say that this motion that we've made about Mr. Sergeant, especially with the support from the ruling party, could lead to a new chapter in foreign policy. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0046par0408	Thank you. The first word on behalf of the groups now belongs to Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0047par0413	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party, I salute the General Assembly. I've made a pledge on behalf of our group on the matter of the genesis given about the Secretary of State. First of all, is there an area in Turkey called foreign policy, or is foreign policy now intertwined with domestic policy, a process that affects one another, or do we think the question of whether one is being used by means of one another should be seriously questioned? Second: The position and behavior of the Justice and Development Party in foreign policy have changed from the beginning of its ruling years to this side, and the status quoist is in history, and we are building the new Turkey. We see that its rhetoric is proportional to its foreign policy. Yes, acceptance, changing balances, events may make it necessary to perform a more active application, but you can't go forward by ignoring the ones before you. For example, in the years of Turkey's establishment, with the experience of a hundred and fifty years of fire geography, with the experience of the founding will of the Ottoman army delegation, he said "Yurtta sulh, jihanda sulh." And he knew how dangerous the background of that geography, where it was shrinking, was said to him. But until the 1960s -- except for certain alliances -- the Sadabat Pact, the Baghdad Pact -- is not much of an interest in the region, but it is also known that after 1960, it has been passed on to multi-directional Middle East-based and multi-directional political diplomacy. In particular, Turkey declared its position in the Arab-Israel war between 1967 and 1973, and did not allow the United States to use İncirlik Base, and thus took part with the Arabs. In the 1980s and 1990s, we found that Turkey established both economic and political military ties without direct angage for developments in the region; that is a fact that has happened. The major development in foreign policy began in time with the ruling of the Justice and Development Party with the new Turkish rhetoric. Okay, so we started with new Turkish rhetoric, good, good, but once we started with a difficult process of hiring. During its arrival, the process of asylum in Brussels and Washington's intercession began from the evil of the status quo and official ideology -- as claimed -- in Turkey's interior -- and the relations with the European Union were expressed as a country of freedoms, as it was in the spring of 2002, 2004, 2005. Now, another interesting thing happened at the time: the BOP project was announced and debates about co-chairing began. We got this... the Arab Spring process changed the paradigm, the whole region is changing, the transformation, and we have to get the opportunity here. But how do we catch him? Did we set out on our own principles as subjects, or did we become objects and become a means to an end? I think we started out as objects, not subjects. So we went to bed with the big quarterbacks, and we tried to get a job together to get results. Well, I don't want to make cruel sentences like that because I believe that faith, the people who are involved in prostration, or similar to this, can't do it knowingly, not knowingly, but knowingly, people who are sincerely concerned about their homeland, can't do it. But, the strategic flaw and error here... it was possible to know that the result of hiring with these would be to recruit you and to be truly local and national at the time. After you have tested and approved them and all of these processes, which have started with Iraq, which continue with Syria -- all of the Middle East -- Libya, Tunisia -- have reached a point where you can't get out of a firefield, the national heroics and localism are now in conflict with itself. So there is a saying that strategic errors cannot be compensated by tactical heroics. While fighting through strategic depths, it became strategic bankruptcy and mufliance, and books were written on it, foreign policy. Perhaps not only the books, but the future days, the doctoral thesis will be written in volumes, which, of course, will go to books to understand the actual situation. But the main problem here is that you ignore your predecessors, start a new chapter, and accept tradition, experience, acquish. It's against nature's rules, Mr. Lawmakers. Time doesn't disappear, it passes by, we say, but when it doesn't disappear, it collects time, civilizations, states, people. So, with these experiences, with these beings, you create a memory that will illuminate your futures. You're opening the third bridge, thank you, but there are two bridges before you, two bridges which you're making third. You're saying the third airport, so there's two of them, so, uh, their presence, it's a question of integrity. I mean, the fact that there's a lot of continuity in the state and those experiences... you couldn't listen to the warnings in this context, you couldn't listen to the Ministry, the Undersecretary, and the Foreign Policy on the edge of the plane. You couldn't listen to Honor Öymen, who put it that way. You couldn't listen to politicians of embassian origin during his time in politics, including diplomatic warnings, including the issue of thesis. You -- the sincere warnings of the opposition -- no matter what the opposition says, we have 49 percent, we go to what we know. You said, and what you know was not enough for what was cooked. We're looking around now, so where are our comrades today, with zero problems and a peaceful desire for a country? So, we're looking at Iraq, and before I take the stand, what does the Justice and Development Party think of Iraq before the November 1 election? From the unity of Iraq, from the respect of its Constitution, from the one state... it's beautiful, it's sincere to fill the space. We're looking at apps, Mr. Minister, which is part of Iraq, and we're making international agreements by agreeing to the autonomous structure in the area and ignoring the central government. Where do these international agreements lead us? It goes to international law violations and the disappearance of our international legitimacy. We're looking at a similar situation, and in relations with Syria, international law and international legitimacy areas say: "Even though there is chaos in your region, take measures without breaking international law and losing your legitimacy." What are we doing? Still in the dispute of this country's MIT trucks, has this country been helped? Did the trucks to the Turks go there, did they go here? Yes, when we say Turkishmen, what have we done about the Turkmen in the nearest geography of Turkish culture, including Iraqi Turkic Turkmen and Syrian Turkmen, who are within our borders in the first Misakimillil? Today, politicalally, even as a population, we see other ethnic identities in the region are far ahead of the Turkmen's fersah, due to the wind of regional conjuncture and terrorism and international forces opening corridors in the region, creating cantons and laying ground for the so-called Kurdistan. It's a problem in itself. Now, we're coming in, and then we're coming in, in the PKK, PYD, YPG debates; it's a PKK terrorist organization. Okay, fine, fine, fine, there may be elements in a human sense, but how did it happen in one night that the PYD terrorist organization was equal to PKK? Do you know how it happened? Politics is blocked in foreign policy. There was going to be a meeting about the future meeting of Syria, where PYD representatives were not supposed to go, it was a state policy -- the Turkish state -- but the political will, the Minister and the government couldn't stop it, so the state had to step in to prevent it. The National Security Council has been convened and the PYD, which has been described as a terrorist organization, cannot go there. It has been decided. After this decision, the political will was forced to state it as a terrorist organization. We're looking, okay, you've declared it there, so stand behind it, do what you have to do. Should we risk our relations with the U.S.A. for the PYD now, dear? Members of parliament, especially the ruling MP, my dear fellow readers, who I think are considering these issues, you have to bring this up within the party as an internal interrogation, and you have to discuss it. Otherwise, these issues are likely to be able to put Turkey in serious trouble by going to very different points. So, we couldn't say Friday prayer in Damascus, but we can do the funeral prayer of Turkish foreign policy today because, as we say, we're involved in foreign policy practices with daily reactions. The European Union relations, the Russian crisis, the Mursi and the Egyptian relationship, the Ukrainian crisis, Cyprus, alone, if we go in and try to expose the ration card of the Justice and Development Party, the valued MPs will not get a pass from this report card to the Justice and Development Party. The failure of the Justice and Development Party to get a pass on this report card is enough for us to vote against this motion at the point of the country's crisis and chaos today and the fact that the fight against terrorism is so versatile that it cannot distance terrorism and terrorists from politics in its shadow, and that it has to give this motion to the condemned structures in its shadow. Voting against it will never stop us from putting aside our responsibility to present and warn the contradictions of the Justice and Development Party within itself. There's one thing that touches me, the matter of carrying this Solomon Shah Turbage, which some of us are supposed to be intercessors with. For God's sake, for us, shrines are a spiritual place, an expression of geography's homeland. The spiritual culture of Alperen veterans, of those taking place is a symbol of Turkish-Islam civilization. This is the tomb and graveyards, which ISIS's predecessors, Baascis and Arab culture rejected, but Turkish culture brought from the early belief system to this side, and the deposits of the great great man, who they accepted as sacred. During the removal of Suleiman Shah Turbaşı's deposit, was there a job held or not in Istanbul with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), with the PYD, and with their political extensions? How did you do that? Why did you allow this? If you've let this happen, don't you ever think about what we'll do if they get up and put them in front of you today while you're fighting with this wife you're supposed to be walking down the road with? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, here comes the notion of a stateman's obligation to do politics. In Turkey, we will free foreign policy from monarchies over paradigm change, we will clear Turkey of the statusist ambassadors in foreign policy. Those who accept memory and experience with their understanding, have made these mistakes because of their professional employment from the private sector, by their own diplomatic mission, which they have created their own background. Look, there are positive aspects to this civilization. On these positive sides, we also see fine works being done. Minister, please consider and support the cultural diplomacy studies of the Yunus Emre Institute, and make sure that the mission of Turkish and Yunus Emrek, in many parts of the Middle East, and the Turkish world, and in many parts of Europe, continues by appointing someone who has a degree in Turkology -- without changing the criteria for the blame -- again, without changing the law. We have never seen the Justice and Development Party implement a future programme, policy, or practice of the Turkish world. So let the problems with Uzbekistan be solved, removed, where are we with Turkmenistan, with Kyrgyzistan, with Kazakhstan, and what's our political strategy? I wonder if we'll be able to come up with a new project and get it, and then we'll come up with a Turkish policy, just like in the BOP process? So here we are, what are we going to do as ourselves? Look, Mr. Secretary, members of parliament, the state of Azerbaijan has shown what your relationship with the Turkish world means in the recent crisis within the country. The president, who had to go there, was unable to go because of the terrorist crisis, and the brother president was able to come to Turkey and become life-threatening. All right, let's put aside those 1915 events in that sense in the problem with Armenia. Under the occupation of Karabağ, in Karabağ, the Armenians have occupied their land and have not left it. There's a big problem between Azerbaijan and Armenia from the occupation, and we're doing psychological operations on behalf of friendly matches in Turkey with the words that are going to be good. With the President of Armenia and the President of the period watching the match, we can throw Azerbaijan flags in the trash or intervene. Later, we could be in need of these brothers and sing with them again with the words of a nation of two states. We shouldn't establish relations with the Turkish world and our neighbours in the regional sense based on the periodical and conjunctural, dear friends. We are all witnesses to the Crimean Tatars' struggle to return from the 1944 exile to their homeland. As we read in the Turkish world of Genghis Aytmatov, we grew up with the novels of Genghis Dağcı. Of course, Crimean Turky is a wound of the heart, but let's save the situation that remains undecided about whether to intervene in the Crimean-Russian crisis, but let's not open that card because we need you to come to Russia when the crisis of the fall of the Russian plane grows, if you come to my borders, I'll open my Ukrainian and Crimean policy card. Let's not tie it to the periodical events, let's do it because it has to be done as a state policy. We urge you to take seriously the warnings of the National Movement Party, the identification of the National Movement Party, and its recommendations, as well as its reads in its place and in its time. Iran is a state of a very long-standing civilization where we do not change our borders from Kasridirin. Even after the regime changes, we tried not to have as much trouble with Iran as possible in international relations, but at the end of the 1980s, the studies of the regime's export to Turkey, of course, bothered all of us, and the state tried to take the necessary precautions, but then we got to the point where Iran and an issue with a Zencani and the drilling of an international embargo, and now the processes of the international embargo are making a huge invoice on us, and the case in Iran and the United States is becoming an international security issue? Dear MPs, I've tried to briefly sum up the views and opinions of the National Movement Party. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit01spe0048par0433	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0048par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (11/5) We will resume talks on whether or not the primary Gensorial Introduction (11/5) is on the agenda. Government? He's in position. Now, on behalf of the groups, the People's Democratic Party Group belongs to İstanbul MP Celal Doğan. Here you go, Mr. Dogan. Here you are, sir, 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0049par0007	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party regarding the minister of foreign affairs. I'm here to present the party's thoughts. I salute all of you. As we looked at the times under Turkish foreign policy, we had a classic foreign policy with the Ottomans and the republic, and the basis for which this was usually based on peace in yurtta and jihanda. I'm not saying this with an understanding that foreign policy is complete, perfect. At times, the state of the Republic of Turkey has made more mistakes in foreign policy than any state can. One of them was followed by a foreign policy in the United Nations that voted against us in the Algerian National Liberation War. Foreign policy may not have had a basis, but foreign policy has been mainly directed, especially in the Middle East, with the understanding that a local government from the National Security Council in Kurdistan would be considered a cause of war. For this reason, the foreign policy taken over by the EC PARTI is seen to have shown loyalty to that policy by an understanding that did not make much zigzags until 2011, but what happened in Turkey after 2011 was brought to the point where the intelligence of the EC PARTI would easily fail in foreign policy with a wasteful policy. It's also useful to identify the conjunctural here. In the conjunctural situation we are in that day, the conditions clearly are not the right conditions as well as the regional and global conditions; they are difficult conditions, under which foreign policy has been tried. What I mean by these conditions is that we have tried to manipulate foreign policy, especially in an environment where the Soviets are at the head of the factors in this region, and what is the situation of Iran, and especially in what we call the spring in the Middle East, which we call the spring in the Middle East, which is the wind, which is the spring. Syria, as well as the embargos in the Soviet Union, the declines in oil, putin's efforts to keep nationalism high with his sense of showmanship in foreign policy in order to sustain his inner policy, as every dictator has applied. And the Russian plane that was dropped on this one gave him a very serious leverage. I'll come to him in a little while, and we'll see what the consequences are. I would also like to say that the embargo, which Iran had been exposed to for a long time, has been solved, especially after solving the nuclear issue with countries like America around the world, and this time, we are in an environment where there is no guarantee from Iran, which has become a more serious actor in the region, that it will not re-enact its sense of Shii, or its sense of religion. In particular, the events that took place in Egypt are the revelation of the situation in Syria. When Turkey is supposed to think about what kind of policy to pursue in these conditions, by leaving our classical policy, unfortunately, our Prime Minister's neighbors have zero questions. With a cliché referring to his understanding, we see that we are slowly drifting into the swamp in the Middle East. The zero neighbour, or rather the zero problem, has brought us to this point in Turkey: unfortunately, it has brought us to the point where zero neighbors will leave. And what I mean here is that in politics, people may have dreams and goals, but if these dreams and goals don't come true, then we're finally where we are. I'd like to give you a few examples of my life, if you'll excuse me. There were times when I was with countless statesmen who ruled the state in Turkey, and I heard one-on-one from their mouths, and there were indications that even if it wasn't one-on-one, they'd left behind. The word of Mustafa Kemal is known all over the world about Mosul and Kerkuk. You know, in 637, Mosul became in the hands of the Islamic countries, and remained in the care of the Ottoman Empire for a long time. Although Lozan was not outside of Misakimillil. However, we could only carry the Mosul issue to a point that would lead to the United Nations in oil. So Mustafa Kemal's expression at the site was: "This is a urphine for the region. Let's put it as an identification. I was a member of the General Governing Body of the Republican People's Party. Ecevit was our president. One day, he called us to an extraordinary meeting, saying: "If Mosul and Kerkuk come before you one day, never forget that this is an English or booby trap, and do not step on it. As a president, I make you this will. That's one of his findings. When we were in the Chainbreaker with Mr. Demirel, I was walking around one day, and I saw a Serkisof clock in his pocket, behind which it was written: "The State Railways, Mosul and Kerkuk. Mr. Prime Minister, what is this? If I don't get in here one day, my eyes will be open. But none of them ever made their own personal opinion a state policy. Therefore, Mr. Davutoglu's foreign policy in Turkey has brought in particular the entire region in accordance with his own dreams. The point he brings to the belief that our leadership in this region is inevitable has led us to the point of interference in the domestic policy of other countries that has never been seen in Turkey's foreign policy. Clearly, we know that Syria is our neighbor, right, different regime; Russia is our neighbor; its regime is different. While we need to act with an understanding that will never and will not allow us to interfere with the internal policies of our foreign policy with the heads of different regimes, we have tried to engage in the internal policies of some countries, both in thought and in actuality. We said a lot of brilliant things. I know in foreign policy, especially in our Prime Minister's books and his rhetorics, we've come across some very bright words, but the truth is that when you're confronted with facts, you see that the landscape is different. What is this? In foreign policy, the result is fundamental. In turn, the main reason is that when you are alone in countries, especially when you have no neighbours who do not see you as an enemy, if your Western allies who are so critical in good times don't extend their hands to you in difficult situations, if you have the image of a country that tolerates extremist organizations in the world, and as a result you have reached a point where you can't provide security for the people of the country, there's no point in the bright words you're going to say. Today, Turkey is not limited beyond these conditions, we are living in a very close environment. Success and failure in foreign policy is not a matter of one party. We are all people of this country, this land is our land, this country is our country, this country is our country. We too suffer from success in this country, and we suffer from failure. So, the current findings, unfortunately, in our foreign policy, are the imagination of our Prime Minister. In the world, they always say that the foreign policy of Turkey is delusional, unrealistic. It's clear from the fact that it's not realistic: in Egyptian policy, we have seen especially what kind of misfortunes we face in the case of Mursi. A large portion of what happened to Egypt is also alleged to be the influence of our impulses. I think they'll excuse me immediately when our Minister is here: if you are the minister of an foreign country, or if you are the president of the state, or your neighbour is a country... or, in fact, if experts were to be sent to an election in your own country, if money was helped, if all their resources were to be made to win another political party, what would you think of that country? It's alleged that -- it's not mentioned -- it's certainly included in your knowledge -- and I hope so; I'm not mixing up the covered funds -- it's said that 2 billion dollars is being helped by Mursi. Other than that, the state is officially said to have helped Egypt with $2 billion. ▪ What has been the outcome of this money? Under what circumstances has Egypt been given these coins? The matter of this Assembly must be presented to the knowledge of its valued MPs. I believe you'll be able to give me some information on these matters you're aware of. One of the other things you've done, I'd like to talk a little bit about Syria. Syria's demographic structure and Egypt's demographic structure are not the same, nor are their conditions the same. There's a difference that -- the most valuable zata in the state -- I've presented this in an environment where our President was given an opportunity -- frankly, I told you that even if you took the NYD as a red line on the Syrian issue, you would never and never attempt to enter it, and they wouldn't let us in. I don't mean to abuse his kindness, his interest, his interest, his appointment, for my faith, but to be clear, with these sentences. So Turkey will never and will never enter Syria. I have spoken to it. I'm here because I'd like to finish the Syrian parentheses... so that I can enter Syria. Of course, Assad there is cruel, of course the regime there is overwhelming. The persecution of the regime there, the Kurds who were there, the persecution of its people, has not been done by any dictator, which is a separate thing. But in order to enter Syria, you must first destroy Syria, then Iran, then Russia, then China, or Egypt. You should know clearly and clearly that you can't enter Syria without crossing them, but we've become obsessed with a handful of Kurds there -- the Kurds in Kobani, the Kurds in Rojava -- who we're talking about -- who will take all the peoples there. What I'm trying to say is, look, you really screwed up a sack of figs in the Middle East together, but you screwed up one more thing -- one of your biggest losses -- we have Kurdish brothers there yesterday. You opened our mouths and made an enemy of a bunch of Kurdish brothers there. I don't understand him. I don't understand what it's like to have so many blessings in a man's hand, so many possibilities. In fact, there's an expression in football, maybe when Turkey is at a point where it's going to score two goals in one shot, how can it score two goals? If Turkey... they also declare themselves, it is Mr. Prime Minister who, from time to time, at times, told Assad-a, Syrian executives -- Kurds have no right to be citizens there, they have no right to own land, they have no right to take part in politics -- why they do not give those rights. So, what now? Why did a handful of people become terrorists when they came to the point where they had to own a handful of land, their rights? Why did they become traitors? Why did they become a neighbor who had to be killed and destroyed? That's what I don't get. Those who said yesterday that they were fighting the Syrian regime on their rights, that they were encouraging them to become citizens from a place that hasn't had a population paper in years, to have a say in there... since when did we get to the point that the person who protected their own land was to be declared a terrorist in the world? Or has there really been a change in the world of terror and love for the country? So, especially the dead end that they came up with in Syrian politics, Mr. Minister, was going to be one of the biggest factors that could help solve our problems within our country, but we thought that if we could extend our peaceful and friendly hands to Rojava, we would throw more autas at the end of this dirty war in Turkey today, which has hurt all of us deeply, losing countless of our people, destroying our economy. Another thing is that you took your clothes off, especially in the Middle East. Being a quarterback is an admirable event for a country, for a great country. If it's not imperial, if it's not invasion, if it's not colonial understanding, I want my country to be quarterback. Osman may understand very well, he loves football, he knows, they call him Number 10, you want to be Number 10. In order to be number 10, you need two things, Mr. Secretary; one of them, you have to run more than all the players, so you have to run 10 kilometers, you have to have a high technique. My country may be an actress, but my country isn't number ten, so...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0050par0025	They scored a goal for themselves.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0049par0026	It's not that I don't want it to happen, it's that I'm the crown, it's that I'm happy, it's that I'm honored, and it gives me the greatest honor as a citizen of that country, but unfortunately, if you try to smoke 10 pounds of hay, that's what it's going to be like. Do you know how? Now, aren't we partners in the coalition on this matter in the Middle East? Didn't we open all our airports? Don't we have all our tools and tools? Now, can you tell me our function there? That's where the Antwerp Armored Brigade moved in. The troops from Malatiah came. Countless soldiers piled up there. Maybe thousands, tens of thousands of soldiers are there. What are we doing? This is a statement from our Prime Minister against a missile or a rocket or a rocket that will fall on Karkamis. What's his name, sir? What balls are you talking about? There's a phrase we use a lot...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0051par0028	Obus, obus...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0049par0029	Our storm obsesses. We have stormed the storm and destroyed 362 people. There are no funeral troops there. These statements are being made in an hour. There's not a single thing we've done except for the storm-buses respond to incoming bullets with a shot. Do we have a plane, a plane, a bird, that can fly in that area after we've crashed the Soviet plane? We're partners in this coalition. If we see problems in this coalition, if we're involved, why aren't we there? We're nowhere else, we're not at the table, we're not at the peace talks, we're not there. So think about where we came from. A country, the most ambitious in politics... the flames rise to the sky in its neighbour, where the world is almost apocalypse, unfortunately, we don't exist, no one cares about us, no one cares about us. Therefore, Minister, whatever landscape was in 1916, the scene in 2016 is the same. I'm looking at actors in 1916, there were the British in front, the French in line, the American in power, Russia trying to get a cut. Now there's the same actors again, but this time the Soviets are ahead. I'd like to learn from you, Minister, and I'd also like you to satisfy my curiosity: Russia has become the land that Russia deserves after the incident in the Balkans, or rather in the Caucasus, in Ukraine. So, for the first time since the Jihan war, we live in a region of land. He's making no noise about it, America. Two: Russia, which went to say it was fighting ISIS, is not fighting ISIS. With what? Either it's with the Turks or it's with Assad's opposing powers. Is there another deal here that we'll find out in a hundred years? We learned the true face of Sykes-Picot, behind the curtain, forty and fifty years later. What was Sykes-Picot's purpose? The British and the French were on their way to prevent the Ottoman lands from falling into the hands of the Germans. And then what happened? Artificial maps, artificial states, we've seen the British and the French sitting on a land that has their own resources for oil. Last week, we gave the Istrillal Medal to Urbana here. When we gave them the Artificial Medal... the French's Gaziantep, whose abandonment of Urbana, the Kahramanmarash, their struggle, is not the end of the war; they waved their arms because they had handed over their rights to Syria with Sykes-Picot, between the French and the British. So in the coming historical period, these actors need to know behind the scenes in that region, this great Parliament. If it were up to me, I'd ask you a lot of questions, but I'm afraid I'm not available. One request is this: First, especially about the money given to Egypt. Secondly, we've crashed the Russian plane, and you're probably upset about it, about where society is coming from now. You know where the narcissists, the tourists, the businessmen, the contractors are. As a minister of the state of Turkey, or rather the Republic of Turkey, do you intend to apologize to these people? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Under the same circumstances, if a plane were to breach our airspace again, would you consider taking it down? For what it's worth, they flew over American ships yesterday with helicopters worth their heads on, and no one could point a gun at them. So, what we're getting at is critical. It's not just your problem, it's our whole country's. With these feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0052par0040	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ardahan MP Ozturk Yilmaz is now a member of the Republican People's Party's Party. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0053par0044	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party in the negotiations of the People's Party against Mr. Foreign Minister. I salute the High Council. In fact, the heavy problems that Turkey is currently experiencing in both domestic and foreign policy, the martyr funerals that we are now accustomed to watching every day, the continuous images of conflict, unfortunately, Turkey is making an impression as if it were a Middle Eastern country. We really need to do a good analysis of foreign policy, but today, unfortunately, the ranks of the House are empty, and more importantly, the parliamentary television, which is supposed to be publicized, does not function today. We're, in fact, responsible for the people we've been chosen to be, we have to tell them what we think, we have to tell them how we feel. If there is any truth in it, We will surely appreciate it, but we must go about in error. In any other way, the opposition party cannot serve in the House, and that is our primary duty. Today, the world is transforming from one polarity to multipolarism again. In most parts of the globe, terrorism, hunger, mass migration, civil war is taking place, while in another small and stable part, there are problems with terrorism, refugee crisis, and economic recession. Today the borders of states are changing around the world, and the world is taking a new form, especially in the Middle East. Ethnic and sectarian terrors and political disputes cause new states to sprout. Political turmoil in the Middle East and Africa and the fragile structures of the countries lead to the emergence of new borders. Basically, in other words, the borders of the Middle East are being redacted. In the next 20 years, we will see perhaps more states, and most of them will come out of the Middle East, and if this decay continues again, there will be no more than 15 million countries in the Middle East. A new dynamic shapes the Middle East. Are only the borders of governments changing? There's also a change in regimes, regimes are changing. Today, in our region, Baasmism, autocratic structure, and antidemocratic practices are being purged. Vahabi, predecessor and monotheistic understanding is identified with violence and terrorism and is met with hatred. Moderate Islam, which we were asked to wear, was abandoned today. It has no defenders left in Turkey, except for the AKP, except one group. In such an environment, it may be the only secular ointment that can rise above the ethnic and religious fault line and form a more holistic policy. The people of the Middle East can only come out of this conflict with the creation of a secular state. On the other hand, there's been a change in the traditional tools of foreign policy at this time. Traditional foreign policy tools have been abandoned in the name of active foreign policy. Through guided NGOs, relations have begun with non-governmental actors that could undermine Turkey's reputation. At this time, the party-state relationship became a leader-state relationship, and unfortunately the fate of Turkey's political power began to be presented as if Turkey's fate were one. The institutional structure has also begun to wear down in the foreign and security bureaucracy. This wearout led to the removal of relations over individuals, not institutions, and unfortunately, foreign policy became personal. In the AKP's foreign policy, what we see as a concept inflation of the country, the founding country, the,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, the wording began to be invalidated by the faults made on the land over and over again. The following sectarian, unrealized, personalized, visionary, unpredictive, externalizing, top-secret, non-stable, sectarian and arrogant approach to Turkey, unfortunately, has been isolated in the region and the world, and its reputation and image has been damaged. Political chaotic structures have been created especially against our country in Iraq, Syria, Egypt and Libya, especially because of the wrong choices made in our nearby region as radical social, political and economic developments took place because international conjunctives and developments could not be read correctly, due to the use of domestic policy and the beginning of monitoring personal interests in foreign policy. Whatever was once presented as the red line was worn out today. Human resources, mainly because of its geography, geopolitical position, should be the leader of our country's territory and a global great actor, but unfortunately, because of its wrong policy, the unwanted person around it has become an unwanted country. Turkey is no longer making friends with this foreign policy, it is increasing enemies. The existence of current regimes in the Middle East and North Africa, of course, is particularly disturbing to the people of these countries, but also because the regime changes are imposed from the outside and the region is being shaped by regime changes, these people are being damaged and they are reacting. The Arab Spring fantasy has been followed and tried to make regime changes in the region, and military intervention has been supported, and unfortunately they are being greeted with hate in the region today. A negative perception of Turkey began during this period, especially in the Middle East. Turkey today does not use a global language in its foreign policy that suits a regional actor; it uses a more Islamic language; unfortunately, it uses a language that we are not normally accustomed to; and unfortunately it is perceived in different ways in other worlds, and as long as this language continues, there is no obstacle to Turkey's identity with sectarianism. The biggest problem in our foreign policy today is sectarianism. It is sectarianism that looks at the government of Iraq in the eyes of Nuceyfi, who looks at it with the eye of Mursi, who looks at Mahmoud Abbas (Abbas) in the eyes of Ismail Haniye (Ishmael Haniye).
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0054par0054	Who do you think Turkey is?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0053par0055	We see it in Turkey's eyes. We look at Turkey in Turkey's eyes. What is the main element behind the plan to overthrow Assad, unfortunately, not sectarianism? With all the nudity that we approach our territory from a Sunni perspective, it's now out in the open. It's not about denial anymore, it's about fixing it. When secularism was seen as a burden and pushed aside, Turkey was pushed into the segregation pit in the Middle East. When you say "publicism," you're basically referring to "suspense," and you're referring to something more than that, you're doing "microanism," you're doing it. Relations with Egypt will not be normalized as long as their understanding of Ihvan is persisted. As long as it's sustained by the idea of Ihvan, it will sharpen and make the conflict that divides the Palestinian people's union right in the middle permanent. The radical jihadist elements will not be prevented from vomiting death in Syria as long as they are driven by the idea of Ihvan. Turkey must be saved from this lame understanding. Turkey is no longer supposed to follow a religion in foreign policy, a religious referendum, and a policy that goes on over them. Basically, nothing will change until you read three books and stop giving yourself up as a terrorist expert, Middle Eastern expert, EU expert, Russian expert, and intellectually ill-advised ignorance who thinks that you're an expert in the United States, and you don't have to spend money and be a consultant in government for the sake of this state. (HP and MHP rows) The understanding that presents defeat as victory, land as white, evil as good, and lie as real declares you successful in foreign policy. We need to make a self-criticism at this time. What is foreign policy for? Why is it foreign policy? What good is foreign policy if it does not protect the borders of a country, if it cannot provide a secure environment for Turkey outside, if it cannot find markets for products produced by Turkey, if it cannot bring out the information-how? Foreign policy is necessary to get concrete results. Civil war in Syria, strife in Iraq, tension with Russia, trust crisis with the United States, and horse negotiation with the EU. These are the results. From now on, we must make a comprehensive change in foreign policy. We need to do this for the safety of our country, the power of our country, our inner peace, our security outside. We need to act here no longer with a sense of opposition and power, but with a great responsibility. [[Applause from CHP rows]] What about the future of Syria? What kind of Syria will be formed? What about our role? We are now excluded from the Syrian painting. I've told you before, I want to repeat here that our strategic depth in Syria, unfortunately, does not go beyond the range of an obese cannon. It's not strategic depth, it's strategic shallow; it needs a new understanding. In Syria, we were not only excluded from the diplomatic solution, but we were also excluded as soldiers. There is a new formation in Syria. Perhaps in the next few months there will be a major operation on Menbic, followed by an operation on Rakka. What about the places that are coming out of ISIS, and who will buy them? What kind of Syria will be formed? How will Syria's internal system be shaped, even if the earth's integrity is restored? What will Turkey's role be here? Is there any study of these? We don't see a study, I'm afraid. On the other hand, the ISIL threat in Iraq... must be that the American government has taken Rakka (Rakka) as its top priority at this time, is about to prepare a comprehensive operation on ISIS, but we also need to have a comprehensive plan on this area. What about this Middle Iraq? What's that got to do with the Iraqi Constitution? After a military action is done and this place is cleared, will the old system continue here? What will be the link between the Constitution of Iraq and Central Iraq? These things need to be considered, they need to be used up. Another issue, unfortunately, is the refugee agreement with the EU. An agreement with Turkey was indeed made for the safety of the EU. What have we been offered? Visa ease, visa liberalisation. We'll all see when July comes. I wish we could be happy with that; I wish this disgrace would end, that the citizens of Turkey would not suffer this disgrace, but I'm afraid this will not be a visa agreement. Even if you apply all the rebuttal clauses to the letter, it seems to us that it won't happen; we'll see, we'll wait. On the other hand, the talks with the EU were envisioned by this refugee agreement that Turkey initially opened five negotiating chapters, five negotiating chapters. These five chapters were a single-sided block by the Greek Cypriot administration, and the result came out: a technical chapter opened, chapter 33, chapter 33, if it was opened in June. We don't have a strategy for refugees either. What about these refugees? Today it is written in the newspapers yesterday: 55,000 housing projects are being done to the refugees in Adıyaman. These are being published, as if they were something to brag about. We should be ashamed of it. We pull the weight of the world, our economy pulls it. Why should we present them as if they were to be boasted? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Russia's relations with Russia... we defend the normalisation of relations with Russia, of course. And we have to open a new channel here, so we're not supposed to interrupt the dialogue. In particular, in terms of the arrival of tourists during the summer period, at least some measures are needed for tourists from Russia. In Antalya, more than 2,000 hotels were sold. If that's the case, it's really bad. Turkey must take measures at least to ensure that the tourism sector does not collapse.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0055par0069	That's not true! There's no such thing!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0053par0070	You know the truth, I'm just stating that I'm reading, maybe the numbers are wrong. Yes, a second issue: Russia is applying Turkey today. The gas keeps coming in -- it's smart sanction -- but it's going to limit all the agricultural goods he's bought from us, all the materials. We need to diversify energy now, for energy safety. Turkey, at least, should close what Russia is doing now with a winter preparation. Another matter, Cyprus. Negotiations with Cyprus are currently under way, comprehensive solution talks. It doesn't go to the press, it doesn't say what's being discussed, but I'd like to point out right away that we're particularly sensitive about three things, about not being diluted, about not being diluted, about guarantees not being diluted; about property, especially about property change. If the agreement on these issues is not a proper agreement, we believe it will also be rejected if it does not contribute properly to Turkey's security, especially to the security of our Turkish Cypriot brothers in the Turkish Cypriot Cypriots. From now on, we'll keep a clear eye on it. So if there's no solution this time, if there's no deal, if there's no deal here or there, then it's time for us to come up with a plan B, and it's already past time. Regarding Azerbaijan, we were concerned about the conflict in the ceasefire line, which has started again in the Caucasus over the past few weeks. We want Azerbaijan to be resolved in the territorial integrity of Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan), the territory of Azerbaijan, which is now occupied by Armenia. We have declared that Azerbaijan is not alone in this matter; that we are with Azerbaijan, not with power, but with all the opposition and all the political parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and that we are with Azerbaijan. Another issue is the normalisation of relations with Israel. We're not supposed to have bad relations with anyone in the area. Our strength, our strength, is that we have good relations with the region, not that we fight with the region. Thus, in a certain format with Israel, the reboot of relations in a format that will not harm Turkey's relations will be supported and supported by our party's development of the lower level of relations. Another issue is the restoration of relations with Egypt. Today, no matter how many times there is a search to improve relations with the Egyptian government, it is not possible if one step is not taken in two matters. One is the subject of the Muslim Brothers in Istanbul. They're making too much trouble. The second issue is from Istanbul, Turkey. Turkey, if the government takes a certain step in these matters, relations with Egypt will improve again. Egypt is a critical country, a country of 90 million inhabitants, a country that opens to Africa. One of our industrialists, who enters Egypt, can take advantage of Egyptian customs with African countries and go all the way into Africa. Hence, we must surely consider this matter with a constructive understanding. On this occasion, we need to establish a foreign policy in our foreign policy, which now puts our national interests ahead of us, maintains the balance, is Turkey's priorities, and has to be a foreign policy that earns friends, not enemies. I hereby salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0056par0079	Thank you. Now, the final word for the group belongs to Malatya MP Taha Özhan, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ozhan.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0057par0083	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, today we've put our foreign policy-consuming, being asked on this occasion, on our agenda. And I got a chance to speak for my group on behalf of the AK PARTY. First of all, if we don't determine the situation we're in in in the global sense and the situation we're in in in the regional sense, we can completely go to the focus of all crises, and even further, as if Turkey had planned all of these crises, or carried them out, and we can be flustered -- unfortunately -- to analyses. We're going through a period when a global spiral of unpoliticism affects almost every geopolitical and economic region. Not only political institutions, but global economic organizations are also in this vicious cycle; decision-making processes are blocked, introvertive reflexes are increasing, and global policylessness continues to grow. In a global sense, we've been going through a transition period since the beginning of the millennium. The economic, political, and political cracks that make that determination possible are now known to everyone. A structured crisis cycle after the 1990s, which is also called the autumn of the north and is recorded as its most colorful years, makes it feel in different places in different forms. There are two factors that will break the vicious cycle: first, the problem of how to govern undeclared northern-south economic tensions and the direction of how answers to that question will shape global power maximization in the coming years. The second is whether to update the globally constructed institutions after World War II. At the beginning of a foreign policy debate on Turkey in such a global political and economic atmosphere, the most fundamental question to be asked and the answer is to realize where Turkey is. The geographical and geopolitical position of our country is a geographical location where negative centrifugal dynamics are effective in almost every aspect. Turkey is generally located in the center or centrifugal influence of three different geopolitical ecosystems: the first is the Middle East and North Africa, the second is the Caucasus, and the third is the European geopolitics, which includes the Balkans. Today, there are serious political and economic crisis spirals in these three geopolitical areas and in the ecosystem. For example, only seven of Turkey's naval neighbours experience political or economic major crises and political vicious cycles. Ukraine can't get out of political instability after Russian intervention. After the 2008 intervention in Georgia, which is both our land and sea neighbour, the political crisis continues. Russia itself is in a serious vicious cycle because of its embargo and its policies in the Caucasus, and its recent intervention in Russia. Greece is trying to deal with a deep economic crisis. In Egypt, the coup regime makes the disaster a little bigger every day. In Palestine, Israel's occupation, global numbness, and chaos in the region deepens a little daily. Lebanon has not been able to come out of its political crisis for more than five years, and not even the most fundamental authorities are still able to make elections. Armenia's Karabağ occupation continues to crown the frozen crisis area in Caucasus. Similarly, Iran, our land neighbors -- the tensions of Syria and Iraq -- has failed to play a positive role in Iraq, following the uprising in Syria. Iraq became the main base of the ethnic and secter fault line after the American occupation, which exported the crisis in the region and then globally. Syria, along with the Baas massacres, is the main base of the wave of refugee and terrorism that includes not only our region but Europe. Thus, as direct wars, coup regimes and occupations continue in the Middle East, North Africa and Caucasus, the economic crisis continues in Europe and the EU debate has political consequences, with more and more flesh per day. All of this reveals a negative situation where you can't reach the basins of political and economic stability, where you can't co-operate in any thousands of miles around Turkey. It's best to first identify this data situation. Because Turkey is right in the middle, in the middle of this data situation. In this case, there is a landscape of Turkey that is contrary to the spirit of time, politically and economically; a political, economic stability that inevitably protects itself despite all the disasters and crises that bring it to a certain extent. If someone doesn't actually call it a success, they either have to find another word to explain what happened, or they need to bring in a smart, builder review, other than the criticism we've seen so far. Now, it's a sad fact that the political crisis, civil war or intergovernmental war anywhere in the world are not only concerned with the heat crisis or the main actors directly, but also with a political tsunami that can have a very different and unexpected impact on the region. This has increased the crisis capacity of different ecosystems, not the movement of crisis or exports in the same ecosystem as the dominoes of Arab Spring. In other words, the crisis is now not only the first stop of the crisis, but it is able to reach different regions over time. It makes him feel both the global refugee problem and the export of terrorism that has reached a quarter of a billion. Unfortunately, the West especially doesn't want to face this painful reality. Although the alien warrior phenomenon that emerged with Syria was overwhelmingly European, they felt that they had even exported the problem, as they clearly did not face the issue. On the contrary, they thought they could manage the issue within Europe through the character of John the Jihadist. In Syria, they chose to slaughter the person who made threats in English and begged in English as a problem of the Middle East from beginning to end. However, while an Englishman who made threats to English again brutally cut off the head of an American asking for help in English, they dealt with the absurdity of Turkey's buying oil from the DAYH. Unfortunately, the local consumers of this slander continue to maintain the same line. However, the Baas regime itself, the flowing blood, the occupations, and the conflict in the region, was the point to focus on. At the coming point, when Europe updates its confrontation with the crisis, it also seems to be unable to produce a policy that will go beyond its efforts to govern the new wave of migration. The most powerful indicator of this situation is the final report made in the European Parliament itself. The crystalline lines of the European political crisis have been reflected to the final report. Aside from the lack of financial knowledge, they've managed to miss terrorism that has hurt our nation with unimaginable lack of politics and insensitivity. This report is the culmination of political blindness in terms of Europe. A similar blindness is being experienced today in the Syrian crisis. There's only one hope that those who accuse Turkey, who take a strange pleasure in putting their own country on the target, who are sickly unable to acknowledge that our country is a haven for the conscience of the region and for the oppressed. Those who had been assigned to the Sykes-Picot order of the ages simply cannot say: Why did Turkey not stand next to the Baas regime, which is the key part of this rotten colonial order, and why did it stand in line with the oppressed and regional change? By God, if we had taken this impropriety seriously for a moment, this time we would have heard the chorus, no doubt about it, it would have been: if Turkey had supported the Baas regime and translated the massacres in an oportunist language, in its own country, he would have denied his position, his presence, his history, his geography. Today, those who said that Turkey had imperial policies when it came to Syria would have no problem talking about Turkey's Baastism. If Turkey had not been on the side of change in Syria, those who said Turkey had shed Muslim blood today would have continued to say the same thing. Today, Erdoğan, Davutoglu led us into the swamp. They would suddenly say that the AK PARTY had been deceiving the Syrian people for years and employing the Baas regime. Today, the neo-February 28th mentality, which saw the Middle East as a fly because of a swamp, would immediately begin to speak of the massacre in Syria, as it did in the invasion of Iraq, instead of insulting Syrian oppressed refugees. If Turkey were to stand in the face of the search for justice in Syria, it is being made, it is being made, it is being made, it is being made today. Those who form sentences in its horrors will continue to form the same sentences, as if nothing had changed. If Turkey stood next to Esed's regime, Turkey was left alone today in the UN. Those who took the job to the UN, the United States, to give thanks to it, were sure to burn American flags in the squares and curse the UN's presence in the massacres. If Turkey had closed its eyes to the oppressed in Syria, those who accused Turkey of supporting terrorists today would have been visiting freedom fighters, who were intercessors of this global slander, who went to Syria and resisted Esed. If Turkey had closed the border and exposed the landscapes in Rwanda, those who were hostile to Syrian refugees today would have formed refugee camps in Syria with foreign capitals and continued to insult Turkey, mediatic poses. If Turkey had supported the Syrian regime today, our foreign policy would have been exaggerated. The people who said "Israel is using the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) when he supports Turkey's Baas regime. They would have said, "They have not advanced the level of conspiracy today, and they would not have been able to overcome it if they had. If Turkey had been with the killer Esed, your relationship with him was good today, what happened? Those who asked the interesting question and thought he was asking the account were already friends of the dictator. They would have said that Turkey was already a friend of the dictator. If Turkey had supported the killer regime near us, what happened to us today from Syria? Those who spoke at the level of political intelligence would have stood next to the Baas regime and turned their back on the West. If Turkey were insensitive to the massacres of the Esed regime, camouflaged sectarians today accusing Turkey of conducting Sunni politics would claim that Turkish foreign policy is a prisoner of Shii geopolitics, that it has been taken over. They were going to say, they were going to say, they were going to say... these sentences can go on and on, pages and pages because these sentences have no analysis value, and they have nothing to do with the Syrian crisis. The issue is the issue of Turkey's rise to foreign policy level after years of dissolution from foreign relations level. Now, Turkey is not a passive object in the face of developments around it and the world, but an active subject, and this is causing serious discomfort to anyone in Turkey. We are grateful for the inconvenience we have caused by the support of our nation, which shares the vaccine, the bread, the neighborhood, the city, the Syrian oppressed. Today, we're actually discussing the question given by those who are uncomfortable. And what this young-age-organist-taste-taste-taste is questioning is the conscience and clarity of our own nation. We have seen those who have spent their lives under the arms of the former Baas regime of Syria for nearly half a century, suddenly discovering Kurds who don't remember the persecution of Kurds in Syria and being subjected to massacres. Of course, it wasn't a good thing. For years, those who had used Syria as a garrison for war against Turkey under the shadow of the Damascus regime have not been bothered by the atrocities, massacres of Kurds in the Baas regime; this time, like their terrorist organizations, they have taken action to put all Kurds on watch over the Esed regime. For years, as if the Kurds had been oppressed by the cruel regime, they offered to stab millions of Syrian brothers standing up against the Baas regime from behind, showing themselves ready to lead. The Kurds first said no to this immoral offer, and now they're giving the answer to PKK, a time-share terrorist organization. Yes, we now see who hired this time-share terrorist organization in a way that they don't even know when or who they are. Unfortunately, they don't bother at all. The Baas regime has three collaborators within Syria; three of them are gaining territory by attacking Syrian oppressed, legitimate opposition. I guess there's no point in counting Hezbollah anyway. One of them is the PKK and the other is the DAIH. Both the Esed regime and the PKK feel that they are growing legitimacy in the guise of fighting the DAİŞ, and while they are doing so, there is no wonder that they are hostile to Turkey, who is fighting a real fight with DAİH. The PKK has committed crimes against all the peoples of the region, especially the Kurds, just as it committed a brutal crime against Islam and the Syrians. The only thing they've promised to Kurds and Syrian oppressed is more donations, more blood, more blood, and more blood, for those who try to extract cantons from the blood of hundreds of thousands of oppressed people, from the tears of millions of innocents, under the arms of the Baas regime. We'll all see that those who have no vision or morals other than the last guard of Sykes-Picot's order are condemned by the Kurds first and then by history to the harshest. Turkey will continue to discuss its conscience with geopolitical facts during a global and regionally harsh and political turbulence. Despite the provocative proposals and provocations of those who fail to understand the situation today, Turkey will continue to be the conscience and the mind of the region. In Africa, in Somalia, he made a mercy revolution, shared his bread with 3 million refugees, and although everyone was silent about Gaza's suffering, the name of the island of virtue, which had not closed its conscience while everyone in Cairo closed their eyes to the slaughter of thousands of people in broad daylight. Of course, anyone who doesn't understand it will. The persecution in Syria began on May 25, 2011 with the handover of the dead body of 13-year-old Hamza Ali al-Hatib, who was arrested by the Baas regime for writing on the walls (x) in Vera. There is absolutely no way that those who have endured all kinds of conflagrations in five years to ignore Hamza could possibly comprehend Turkey, which is today at Aylan's baby. I'll finish what I'm saying here, but the speakers just came up with a few things. For one thing, there's this standard global slander now, and they probably can't rest until they've consumed it; here's the relationship between DAIH and Turkey. We're tired of saying it here, we're tired of answering it, but our friends aren't tired of it, they're insisting on it. Last time I talked to him, I told him, it was a political mythomaniac, he had a lying disease. They go and say it in other capitals, and then in the media there is English, and then they turn it here, and then they use it again; it's a vicious cycle. In the region, the sole and true enemy of the DAİŞ is Turkey, and the only true and true friend of the DAİŞ is Esed and his collaborators, and the only food supply of Esed and his collaborators is Eskis. (AK PARTY) When the DAIH is eliminated, there is not a single meaningful sentence for either Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) or Esed. In Western capitals, DAIH is the product of marketing things, and they bring their payment in return and spend it here, cashed and spent on the Esed regime.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0058par0098	Who did the guns on the trucks go to? Who got the guns in the trucks, who sent them?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0059par0099	Why don't you ask Tuğrul Türkesh, Tuğrul Türkesh?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0060par0100	Go on, go on.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0061par0101	Let's go!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0062par0102	Have you forgotten what Tuğrul Türkesh said?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0063par0103	He's a mitomani too!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0064par0104	Congressmans, please, let's not interfere. Mr. Özhan, go ahead and finish.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0063par0106	Ask your own Minister!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0065par0107	All right, brother, take it easy. When I say those words out loud, it doesn't go in capital letters, it's easy, I know what to say.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0063par0108	No... hear, hear!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0066par0109	He's always like that; he's excited, he's excited!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0063par0110	You guys insist on not hearing it, and I'm screaming for it.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0067par0111	The second is the slander of sectarianism. Unfortunately, this is pure slander.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0063par0112	Your minister has slandered you!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0067par0113	The name of this slandered country is Turkey, and the name of the President of this country is Recep Tayyip Erdogan; it has not been more than seventy-two hours since Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that I am neither Sunni. I am neither Shii. I am Muslim. (AK PARTY) How much Turkey...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0063par0114	There's no governor, one!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0067par0115	Calm down, brother, don't scream, don't scream!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0063par0116	Tell the truth when you're lying!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0068par0117	Congressmans, please, let's not interfere. Mr. Özhan, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0069par0119	May I have a moment, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0068par0120	You go ahead and finish it. We're not running out of time, we've decided on a principle. Please, come in.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0069par0122	Well, then, I'd like to thank the General Assembly. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to say that we have rejected this sectarian claim as strongly as possible.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0070par0125	Well said.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0069par0126	But Turkey has had sectarian foreign policy periods. When we came to power, Turkey was a single sect in Iraq, a weak country trying to make politics of a single ethnic structure, and today it is a powerful country.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0071par0128	Thank you, Mr. Ozhan. Now, on behalf of the groups...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0072par0130	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0071par0131	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0072par0132	During his speech, Mr. Orator repeatedly stated that the motion we gave was full of unrealistic information, and that all the issues that we've discussed so far are intended to back up the Kurds' Assad regime, as well as to taunt our group...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0071par0133	Did he use such a statement by enforcing your group or your person, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0072par0134	Of course, clearly, he was talking about the people who gave the motion, the unrealistic information, and the bullying about backing the Kurds behind Assad. That's the first. Second, the speakers from the church slander and accuse us of sectarianism. After he said it, he taunted me with harsh sentences. So, on behalf of our group, I'd like to speak for myself and for two separate taunts.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0071par0136	Now, Mr. Baluken, no group name mentioned by name or by name. But, based on what you're saying about the motion of the gene, maybe if he used some incriminating phrases on your group, if that's what you're hearing, I'll promise you two minutes on behalf of the group, because of the bullying, but there's no such thing as a person.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0072par0137	Mr. President, it's clearly available. You can get the transcripts if you want. The speakers who spoke before me have slandered both the cultism and a lot of nonsense about our government's relations with ISIS...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0071par0138	Mr. Baluken used general statements.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0072par0139	No, dear!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0071par0140	I'm giving you two minutes, okay, on behalf of the group, but I don't want to be picked on by...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0072par0141	No, no, no, I was the speaker before him, and I was the leader of the AKP in Syria.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0073par0142	Mr. President, if he's gonna talk, let him talk, if he's not gonna talk, that's fine.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0074par0143	Yeah, that's enough!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0073par0144	Will you look at me?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0075par0145	Mr. Baluken, okay, two minutes on behalf of the group, and I promise to tease you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0076par0146	Well, then, I'll make a promise not to tease you on behalf of the group, but for the sake of the individual, I reserve my rights. I suggest you examine the records.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0075par0147	I don't see any bullying on behalf of the individual. Here, I'll give you two minutes on behalf of the group for bullying.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0076par0149	I'd like you to review the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0075par0150	Please, Mr. Baluken, let's not challenge a new challenge. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0076par0154	Thank you. Now, to be honest, we're amazed as we listen to the speaker: I mean, here they are, having a joint Council of Ministers meeting with Assad, having a common throat tour, enjoying themselves, doing so because they were unaware of what the Kurds were doing against the regime in those days. When you took the Bosphorus tour, when you assembled the Joint Council of Ministers, Salih Müslim and many Kurds stood up for humanity in the plots of inhuman torture by Assad. Therefore, you do not need to resort to slanders such as the Kurds, I don't know, backing up Assad. Your government knows that very well.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0077par0156	That's right, that's right!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0078par0157	What Kurds? They're in Bekaa Valley.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0076par0158	Look, your government has been in negotiations with the PYD for a long time, and I'm speaking here as a member of parliament who knows the full extent of those negotiations. At that time, PYD was given three conditions. If those three conditions had been met, your headquarters in Ankara today would have been the PYD's office, the Murhithar Border Gate would have been a commercial gate, but since the PYD did not accept those conditions, today you are out, saying that you are hostile to the Kurds there. What were the three conditions? The first is that the PYD will fight Assad. There is no way, he has no power, he will start a war against Assad. This is the first condition. Secondly, with the jihadists in Syria, who have given their cover to the Free Syrian Army, you know better than I do what comes out of that SOO. Third, he will not meet Russia, Iran, America in any way. So, if he did what you did, he'd be an Ankara branch office, and he'd be a terrorist when he doesn't do what you say? See, the whole world doesn't believe that. Currently, from Prague, Moscow, to Stockholm, the world has made it clear how the world views the PYD. My respects.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0079par0163	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0080par0164	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0079par0165	Mr. Özhan...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0080par0166	I want to answer.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0079par0167	What exactly did he say?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0080par0168	I mean, I want to answer because of the bullying. I don't need to do polemics, I'd like to answer as a continuation of the earlier discussion.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0081par0169	What's the Civil Code?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0080par0170	He twisted what I said about PYD.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0082par0171	Mr. Özhan, come in. I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0083par0175	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. He made some really good points. We've finally found out from the mouth of a HDPlı how the Kurds in Syria were really brutally massacred under Esed's rule, which is historical, something really historic.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0084par0176	Yeah, you were doing a throat tour!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0083par0177	For Ocalan spent twenty years in Damascus, and did not remember it one day. When we were meeting with Esed, he had heard the Kurds from our mouth for the first time in 45 years, since Esed's father, he was not accepting his presence from our mouth. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] And more importantly, if Salih Moslim has groaned under Esed's regime, he has suffered tortures, you will go to Salih Müslim, and you will say, "What is your association with the regime that has persecuted you so much? Just recently, eventually, the destination of this work is to enlist in the Baas army. Why did you make the announcement? Did something fall on your head? Why couldn't your brother stop in Syria? If you've made a revolution in Rojava, you've saved Rojava, why did your brother have to leave? You'll ask him, Mr. Bauken? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As for the PYD issue: True, if the NYD had done a lot of things, they would have been in different places today, and if the PKK had done so, they would have been in different places. If the PKK had given up terrorism, blood, today would have been a different southeast, a different Turkey, he wouldn't have given up. The PYD did the same thing or the opposite of what the PKK did in Tyre, Cizrede, Nusaybin. Here, with some of the blessings that the global system would actually offer, they thought they'd be able to achieve incredible gains by entering the United Nations Security Council -- a huge disappointment. The Kurds have already been persecuted under the Esed regime for 45 years, and that was not enough, it was for the first time that the Baas regime began to rebel, and the PKK-PYD tried to hit the Kurds on the backs of the Kurds. By God, neither the Kurds nor the other oppressed in Syria allowed it.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0085par0183	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0086par0184	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0087par0185	He didn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0085par0186	Mr. Orator, what I said in the previous speech...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0086par0187	He thanked you, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0085par0188	No, no. ...in the context of a confession. I want words according to 69.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0086par0190	He thanked you, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0085par0191	Mr. President, if that's the way you're gonna run it, we're really busy today. I mean, I'm making a very serious request according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0086par0192	I mean, isn't it true what he said?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0085par0193	He took my words from his context and reflected them as a confession.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0086par0194	Here, I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0085par0197	Mr. orator knows very well that the PYD and the Kurds there rejected the building of the Shii bloc and Sunni bloc, a third road, an alternative route that was based on the people's will: so, not the Shii bloc, Russia, Iran, China, trying to shape Middle Eastern policy, nor the AKP government, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, al-Qaeda, and Sunni, have developed the solution models by refusing to take part in a third bloc.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0088par0198	What's that road?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0085par0199	Now, instead of coming here and telling us these facts, instead of admitting that you've turned the disturbance into a Kurdish anti-Kurdish anti-Kurdish and anti-Kurdish policy, you're framing us. Look, it's in the middle, so it's not just the Kurdish hostility in Rojava, it's the same inside, it's the same in federal Kurdistan. Didn't President Erdoğan just leave a few weeks ago and say that we made a mistake in northern Iraq, that we won't make the same mistake in northern Syria? So instead of the Saddam regime, the massacrer considers it a mistake for the Kurds there to create a system instead of the Baas regime. And now, when he was in Tyre, and in Cizre, and in Silopi, and in Dersim, and in Zilan, and in the slaughter of Ağrı Zilan, you gave the ground and the barricades a reason.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0089par0200	It's a war on terror, not violence, it's a war on terror!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0090par0201	Tell me the truth! Talk about PKK's massacres, talk about PKK's actions!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0085par0202	So, in the attack on Tel Abyad, in the attack on Kobani, in the developments in the Azez-Mare line, is there a ditch and barricade there? What are you firing the stormsides for? Isn't this painting perfectly clear? Obviously, there is trouble because the AKP established Syria and the Middle East policy on the basis of Kurdish anti-Kurdish and Kurdish hostility.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0091par0204	You're lying!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0092par0205	Not at all, not at all!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0093par0206	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0094par0207	Mr. Özhan...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0093par0208	Turkey's Qatar said that I said that he was following a path with ISIS, that I implied it, and I want to respond without taunting.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0094par0209	Mr. Özhan, let's get this over with. Look, now, the Minister will speak. One second, I promise, but we're going to talk about different ideas here, naturally, on that stand. I mean, it's not true that you get up and take it as a taunt because he thinks differently of you -- for all the political party groups.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0093par0210	No, it's not like that. He said it was me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0094par0211	I understand that I spoke in a different way. You say that. I'll give you two minutes, but let's finish. Let's not afford another tease, please.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0095par0215	Mr. President, look, whenever it is said that Turkey is collaborating with the DAİSK, sharing the same axis together, no matter how long this goes on, the answer will be taken. There is such a global slander, we will not allow this slander to be consumed here, it must be understood. As I said, there's only one actor, Esed and his collaborators, who are collaborating with the DAIH.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0096par0216	You're funny.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0095par0217	▪ If this period really disappears, what are we going to market for?....... because that's all they care about. We're definitely not gonna let that happen. Another issue is the generalization of Kurds. We won't allow the Kurds to be mortgaged. The AK PARTY is the 1st party in Eastern Anatolia, and the 1st party of Kurds is the AK PARTY. The number of Kurdish MPs in that group is the overwhelming majority of the Turkish Grand National Assembly for the Kurds. And I don't mind using that language. There can't be such an ethnic language, I'm sorry to say. So it's not possible for anyone to get out of a politics where they mortgage neither Turks nor Kurds or any sect, and we shouldn't all be allowed to do that together.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0096par0219	You're not putting mortgages, you're making immediate publicization.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0097par0220	Go, go, go.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0095par0221	You're not gonna shut up, bro. I told you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0098par0222	Congressmans, look, you're interfering every time, but please.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0097par0223	Taha, go, go, go.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0095par0224	I'll go on, Hajji, hold on.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0098par0225	Please, Mr. Özhan, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0095par0226	Yeah, well, I'm calling it, and my friend thinks it's gonna go on the record capital when he yells, and it's in the lowercase, so it's cool. How many times have I told you?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0099par0227	The first ones are big, the next ones are small!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0100par0228	Let them defend the PKK, you go ahead.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0101par0229	Don't be rude! Kim is defending the PKK! Don't be rude! What do you mean he's defending the PKK? Who's defending what? Don't be dirty! That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0102par0230	I want to rephrase this global expression: you are free to repeat this global slander. Unfortunately, there's no political language coming out of here, the only language that comes out is a PKK radio language. That radio language has no meaning for politics or Kurds.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0103par0231	Free, calm down.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0101par0232	He's defending the PKK. He's saying it! That's not true! You should know your place, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0104par0233	Yeah, on behalf of the groups...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0105par0234	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0104par0235	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0105par0236	Mr. President, the speaker once again said that we spoke of a global slander from the stand and slandered him, he picked on us.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0104par0237	Mr. President, Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0105par0238	We haven't made any slanders over AKP-İSİD relations so far, but the speaker has called the issues that we have persistently expressed a slander and taunted.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0104par0239	Mr. Baluken, I'm going to ask for the minutes, but he didn't mention your name or your group there; he generalized it, he used a general statement.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0105par0240	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0104par0241	I'll ask for the transcripts, I'll take a look, okay. Okay, I'll take a look.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0105par0242	Mr. President, you're also an experienced MP who's been acting as group president.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0104par0243	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0105par0244	You know very well whether or not Mr. Hatti would be offended by the reference he sent to the previous speech.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0104par0245	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0105par0246	I mean, look, you just promised Mr. Hati twice, and although he didn't describe a taunt, you made an unregistered promise.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0104par0247	I've promised you twice, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0105par0248	If that attitude continues, we will discuss the situation of your neutrality. Therefore, he has slandered us. We need to answer his statements from the stand. It's as simple as that.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0104par0249	Okay, I'll ask for the minutes, Mr. Bauken. Look, Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0105par0250	Mr. President, you're not following me right now.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0104par0251	What do you mean?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0105par0252	Then you're not following the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0104par0253	I could miss it, I could miss it, I could miss it. As a human being... Every sentence...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0105par0254	Mr. President, then you are not ruling this General Assembly objectively.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0104par0255	I run a neutral operation. I'll ask for the records, if I have them, I'll give them to you. I promise, okay.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0105par0256	After the reports, yes, I will discuss your attitude.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0104par0257	I'll ask for the records, and if there is, I'll promise. Now, the words for the group are complete. On behalf of the government, Mr. Mevlüt Sergeant, it's your turn. Here you go, Mr. Sergeant. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You've got 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0106par0266	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear fellow lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. I stand before you on the basis of the geneorization given by the HDP Group. First of all, I don't agree with the initial assessment of my rights by Baluken, who spoke on behalf of the group who submitted the motion. We always take this House, the High Assembly seriously, with respect. As a member of the Council of 47 countries in particular, as a minister who cares about parliamentary diplomacy, we always have respect, respect, account, information. Once, when a request came in from your party, under the leadership of the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, I made a promise, and I said, "When our Parliament commands, we come, we give information about foreign policy." As a matter of fact, our President of the Foreign Affairs Commission, invited us over at the request of our fellow MPs, and I gave my friends detailed information on foreign policy developments, including behind-the-scenes information. We have no secrets about this. Therefore, we always take our coven seriously. Now, in the interest of our country, when a suggestion comes, when a question comes -- it can be a question, it can be a gene -- we respect that. And we listen carefully to the reviews all the time, see if we can take advantage of them, and evaluate them with our friends, and we try to learn from them. When I received the news that this motion was to be made, I was curious to see if there was anything in this motion that we should be guiding our foreign policy or if there was something we should correct. When I see a completely slanderous, slander-based motion, I'm not surprised, actually, but I'd also like to say that I'm looking forward to it. Why did the HDP Group file this motion? I'm going to talk about this at the end of my talk. Dear friends, we live in a difficult geography, not an easy geography. Look around us, the problems in Syria, Iraq, and the problems from here, particularly terrorism, have become a problem of the world, not of Turkey or Europe, as well as of the immigration issue. On the other hand, Yemen is still unstable in Libya. The transition government in Libya is trying to get the vote of confidence, and we support it. Likewise, there is no step in solving the Israeli-Palestinian problem. Afghanistan is still dealing with a lot of problems. On the other hand, sectarianism has become a serious threat to our region. Is the water still up north? No, it hasn't. Look, I've tried to explain in my previous speech how the frozen conflicts in our region pose a risk to Turkey and the region. Here is Armenia, the last to attack Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) by violating the ceasefire, and that is not only the instability of the Caucasus, but Abkhazia and South Ossetia, the territorial integrity of Ukraine has been corrupted today. The situation in Europe is not better than this, but we see increasing racism in Europe, foreign hostility, Islamophobia, and all sorts of extreme currents that have begun to undermine the values of Europe, and the values that we believe in. Thus, the eyes of the world are in this region and the eyes of the world are in Turkey, Turkey's foreign policy. Of course, now, when we looked at these problems, these problems around us, Turkey didn't bring any of them out, and Turkey is not responsible for any of them. In order to overcome these problems alone, Turkey is trying to contribute, sometimes individually, sometimes by international organisations or by mechanisms in the region, to solve these problems. We say what we think about the problems that are always there and the opportunities that will arise, and the world's humanity, but not just the thought, but also our efforts. Our efforts in the region are clear. What we've done about this -- I've already told you -- we've explained in detail at the General Assembly, the Plan and Budget Commission and the Foreign Commission. I'd like to talk to you about some of the issues that have been brought up today. Unfortunately, the Syrian crisis has been a sensitive issue since the beginning because it concerns our safety, it concerns our stability, and we've been told on every platform that the final solution to the conflict in Syria is the political solution. In the international arena, Turkey has the most active support for the solution to this problem. Among all the formations of Syria for a political solution, Turkey is the country that has contributed most actively to the political solution by being present at the first Geneva talks, including the coalition against the International Syrian Support Group, the first Geneva talks and, now, the re-starting Geneva talks, especially by allowing the opposition to be there. On the other hand, if there is a hope for a solution in Syria and the region today, Turkey will surely have an important role in this, but we have not been insensitive to the other reflections of this conflict, this instability, and the human reflections. Today, we welcome 2.7 million Syrians into our home, and we spend more than $10 billion on 2,700,000 Syrians. It's something we'll be proud of, and we'll keep spending it. We can't be insensitive to these people. There are also allegations concerning Solomon's Tabulah. What is it, sir, that we collaborated with the YPG, the PYD terror organization in the temporary transport of Süleyman Shah Temple? That's not true. When there was a threat to the conflicts in the DAİŞ and the region, we wanted to move this shrine temporarily, and we decided that after making that decision, we said to all the elements there: "Don't come up against us, we'll shoot what we see, and we did the operation. In the event of an accident, only a petty officer has been killed, God rest his soul, and we honor all our martyrs. Thus, cooperation with the PYD, the YPG, is absolutely out of the question. At the headquarters that night, our Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu conducted the operation and stayed up until morning. I'd like to stress that in particular.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0107par0275	Mr. Secretary, is he going back again?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0106par0276	Of course, once security is secured, after stability, we plan to move that shrine to its original location, we plan to. After that operation, friends, Turkey and the Turkish military have once again increased their reputation in the world. So there's no need to look for anything else behind it. As for the PYD, as for YPG: Yes, Mr. Taha Bey, our Foreign Affairs Commission, has spoken well, and we have issued warnings in time, you will drop the gun, you will abandon the terror, just as we did to Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), but PYD and YPG did not give up the gun, and did not abandon terror because it was intended to divide Syria. Do you know why Salih Müslim came from Kandil? Salih Müslim Kandil (Salim Kandil) by Assad and with the co-ordinating of today's opposition, former Prime Minister Riyad Hichab had been taken down from Kandil, while he was Prime Minister, and in Syria, he was instructed to organize terrorists and launch attacks against Turkey. Why isn't the opposition today taking over the PYD? He's not taking it because it's a terrorist organization, and everyone needs to know about it. If there is no Ayn Al-Arabash today, it is because of Turkey. The people there, about 200,000 Kurdish brothers, we took them into our land, gladly.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0108par0279	That's Kobani. What's Ayn Al Arab? Kobani there, tens of thousands of people died.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0106par0280	Even the day-to-day vows of animals living there, we take them as our human duty, we pass them on, we're so sensitive about these things. But PYD, what's the YPG doing? Where he's gone, he's there to banish our Kurdish brothers and sisters who don't think like him. Today in northern Iraq, Turkey, different cities of Europe, Syria, Kurds driven by the PYD, YPG, I'd like you to meet with them, and I'd like you to listen to them. You might say: "This is the opinion of the Foreign Minister or the opinion of the EC PARTY." No, it's not, you can see it in the reports of the Amnesty International, the United Nations and other independent organizations. The PYD, the YPG, is doing ethnic cleansing in its current cities, and you're trying to make it look like a legitimate party, just like you showed a terrorist organization, the PKK in Turkey. So, of course, we will maintain our position in the entire international community. My dear President, my dear friends, we don't see the difference between DEASH and the PKK. DEAS, PKK, NYD, YPG are all terrorist organizations, and we will continue to fight them all. Turkey is the country that has the most support for the fight against the DEAS in Syria. Turkey is the country that contributes to elements that are fighting against the DEAS today. In the same way, we've taken steps regarding foreign terrorist fighters, and in our previous discussions, we've presented them to you and to the public, to our great nation. Today, we have imposed a ban on 41,000 people to enter with the country and have captured 3,300 people and delivered them to their country, including a terrorist who carried out the terrorist attack on Belgium. Again, we interviewed over 9,000 people with the risk analysis units we created, and we turned down 2,000 of them from the airport. 2,800 people, suspected of having ties to DAESK, more than 1,200, were taken into custody today, and more than a thousand are currently under arrest. Thus, the well - intentioned ministers see our efforts, but those who are not able to distance themselves today from violence in the region used to be instructed by the Kandil, and now those who received instructions from Northern Syria, YPG, can't see it. It would be naive to expect those who are involved in politics in the direction of the terrorist organization to see it. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) I'm being very clear about that. And then there's the whole cult thing. Mr. Taha has also made a very good point, and we reject all kinds of sectarianism, and we throw it away. Religiousism is very dangerous. What Europe has suffered from religious wars in its day, a hundred years, plus thirty years, we have not forgotten. Thus, we encourage religious countries to do so, and we give warnings. All kinds of sectarians are dangerous. And the best answer, Mr. President, was given at the Islamic Summit. He said, "I am not Shii. I am not Sunni. I am Muslim, alhamdullah." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear brothers, we approach Saudi Arabia as well as Iran. We've done the IIT summit. Before the ICE summit, Saudi Arabia King Selman was in Ankara, and we raised our relations to even higher levels. We've agreed to establish the Turkish-Suudi Co-ordination Council and signed the agreement. Right after the summit, Iranian President Ruhani made a visit to Ankara, and we held a meeting of the Council of the High-level Strategic Business Union in the presidency of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Ruhani. Our efforts will then continue to reduce tensions in the region, to reduce tensions between Iran and Saudi Arabia, because it is our duty to ensure stability and stability among our brothers in the region. Look, regarding our relations with Israel, Israel has apologized, and if he fulfills the two remaining requirements, we will correct our relations with Israel. That's what we've been saying all along, period. And right now, the talks are going on with Israel. Dear friends, we know our power, we know our problems in the region, we know our capacity, we know our capacity, and we're trying to fulfill an intense foreign policy with the power we take from our country, our country's economy and our nation. So far, we've made some really important mechanisms for the peace and stability of our region. The trilateral mechanisms established by our Prime Minister during the Foreign Ministry in the Balkans and Caucasus have now become institutional. So, about two months ago, we held the Turkey-Georgia-Azerbaijan Convention, ten days ago we held the Turkey-Azerbaijan-Iran Convention in Ramsar, and we will hold the Turkish-Turkmenistan-Azerbaijan three-way meeting in the future. Likewise, we try to operate this mechanism best in the Balkans and contribute to the stability of both the Balkans and the Caucasus. As for our relations with Russia, after the incident of the plane crash with Russia, there was a tension in our relations, but to improve our relations with Russia...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0109par0288	Mr. Tuğrul Türkş is going to take on the matter of ISIS, where the guns are going in.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0106par0289	No problem, no problem. Thank you, Veli. Thank you, Veli.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0110par0290	Mr. Agha, let's not interfere. Congressmans, there's a buzzing in the hall, please stop humming.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0106par0292	Because we have a personal friendship with Veli, Veli, he speaks to me from there, no problem; he does it out of love and respect, and I love him, and I count him. He's doing it because he thinks about me. Now, we didn't want our relations with Russia to come to this, but we've always told Russia the truth. Since the beginning of the Crimea, we will not recognize the nature of Crimea. We said, "We don't know it." We said, "We will keep it on the agenda of the world." We hold it and hold it, so Russia has nothing to do with the coming to Syria. We've been very clear about Crimean politics all along, and today the Crimean Tatars are not leaving our brothers alone. We've sent an unofficial human rights delegation to Crimea, and we're sharing their findings with all institutions, including the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the United Nations, the European Union, and now they're calling it the findings of the Turkish delegation while they're compiling their reports, so we're going to keep a close watch on this, too. Of course, dear friends, we always keep our relations with the United States dynamic, our relations with institutions such as NATO, the Council of Europe, the OSCE, and our relations with the United Nations. We're going to Strasbourg tonight with our Prime Minister. Our Prime Minister will be the honorary guest of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and address the General Assembly. So Turkey is being excluded, Turkey can't find a place anywhere. We certainly don't participate in accusations like that, we don't find them right. Now, you're always speculating about our Prime Minister's visit to America, and you said the same thing here, Mr. Baluken. What is it, sir, that the foreign minister met the President at the airport? Yes, I did. Two days before our president, I went to the United States, went to Washington, and I made bilateral talks here at the White House and the State Department. After me, Mr. President came to the airport, and I'm proud of it. You're missing something, we went to Finland, we went to Helsinki before our Prime Minister, and I met our Prime Minister at 2:00 a.m. at the airport. I'm proud to welcome our Prime Minister, and I'm proud to welcome our President. (AS/TK) And in the United States, the Director General of Protocol welcomed all the guests. Their kings, foreign ministers, presidents, prime ministers, all received by the Director General of Protocol. So there's no need to go into this kind of speculation.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0111par0296	Come to this Libyan place, Minister, and talk about this Libyan one.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0106par0297	Dear lawmakers, as to our agreement with the European Union, it's very clear that we want to end human tragedies. We want our people, our citizens, to travel without a visa. We'd like to update the customs unit. We want the beans opened. If the European Union doesn't keep its promise, we'll call off any other agreements, including the Recycling Agreement, and that's what's in the deal. So the European Union has to keep its word. One of the most important priorities of our foreign policy is humanitarian aid. And we will continue to do this humanitarian aid to the fullest. According to national income, we are number 1 in the world. And Turkey, see, is taking on its most important summits. The G20 summit was the world's most successful G20 Summit. We're done with this, we're now president of the Islamic Summit, we're president of the Islamic Co-operation Agency. It was the most successful summit at that summit, and we're doing the At least Advanced Countries Meeting in Turkey, and we're doing the World Humanitarian Summit for the first time in Turkey, and next week -- we invite you -- Turkey is hosting an EXPO for the first time. With the participation of our President and Prime Minister, we hope to perform the opening of the EXPO 2016 Antalya. Now, we're running out of time, and I'd actually like to answer some questions.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0112par0300	Give me an answer on this Libya thing. Why can't these Turkish Airlines fly to Libya, Mr. Minister?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0106par0301	He's flying.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0112par0302	It's not flying.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0106par0303	It's starting to fly. We'll also open our embassy.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0112par0304	Why did you turn it off? Why did you turn it off?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0106par0305	The Prime Minister will be our prime minister first to visit, so don't worry.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0112par0306	What happened, why did we have a fight with Libya, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0113par0307	We're not getting what's coming to us, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0106par0308	Now, I'd like to give an answer to the valuable speaker speaking on behalf of the CHP. For 55,000 dwellings, he called it a monument of shame. This is not a monument to shame, 55,000 dwellings are a pride for us. If we want to talk about shame in history, let those who don't pay be ashamed. But if we want to talk about the painting of shame in history, in 1944, it's the CHP who gave it to Stalin, who banished the Christians and the Crimean Tatars, 146 Azerbaijan intellectuals who took refuge in us. Kill them and don't give it to them. This is the real shame. I'll tell you that, too.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0114par0309	Does it look good on the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Turkey? Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0106par0310	Now, my dear President, I'd like two more minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0115par0312	We can't give you time, Mr. Secretary, please finish. Don't interfere...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0106par0314	Mr. President, there's been some bullying. One moment, please.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0115par0315	We'll give it to you later if it's a tease.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0106par0316	Okay. Then, if I get word later, HDP... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to explain why he submitted this motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0116par0322	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0117par0323	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0118par0324	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0119par0325	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0117par0326	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0120par0327	Does it look good on the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Turkey? Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0117par0328	Mr. Özkan, please, please... Look, this conversation is over, Mr. Group Vice President. Please, Mr. Özkan... Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0121par0332	During his speech, the Minister began with a proposal based entirely on slander, until we received instructions from Kandil.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0117par0333	Here you go, sir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease. Congressmans, please don't interfere on the bench.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0122par0340	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, we discuss current, everyday matters here, that's one thing, but I've seen with real caution what you're saying here about the transfer of the Solomon Shah Temple. Before you came here, you should have asked me where former Foreign Minister Feridun Nervesoglu, Sırrı Süzeyya Önder and Salih Müslim. They met in Istanbul that night and what they were talking about. I'm not even comfortable with making them a topic of discussion, as I said. I mean, in your conversations here, even the words reveal your subconscious. You still say 'Ayn Al-Arabah', you're still drawing from saying 'Kobani' to Kobani, where the struggle for honor has been saved by all mankind.' There is no further need for proof of your relationship with ISIS. But I asked you about the things that went down in the House reports, and you didn't answer in the budget talks. What did you trade $7 million in ISIS and Akchakale and Karkamis through 2014-2015? Why did that trade go down from $7 million to zero after the YPG got their hands on it? Give us the answer. Isn't that an open business relationship? So when you're doing an example of the reports of Amnesty International, remember that the EU Progress Report is still in the cargo. Remember what the International Amnesty's EU Progress Report on Cizre, Silopi, Sur▪, the U.S. Human Rights Report, said. As for the PYD case of ethnic cleansing: Only the Tel Abyad Assembly has three times as many Arab members as Kurds, half as many Turkishmen. The whole world will laugh at you if you tell an organization that's doing this kind of ethnic cleansing. My respects.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0123par0345	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0124par0347	Mr. President, in the last part of his speech, Mr. Secretary, I'm going to answer to the spokesman of the People's Party of the Republic. He has made it clear to our group that CHP had done something shameful because of an incident in 1946.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0123par0348	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0124par0349	Mr. Ozturk, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0123par0350	Here you are, Mr. Ozturk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0125par0355	Mr. Secretary of State, there are things in the Republican People's Party's history that he would be proud of, not ashamed of. First, he needs to be proud that he founded this republic. The Republican People's Party founded the Republic.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0126par0357	Right or wrong? Is this about Azerbaijan right or wrong?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0125par0358	It is the Republican People's Party that has led this country to multi-party life. Turkey is the Republican People's Party, which has its spirit, its essence, its nation, its unity, its resurrection. The Republican People's Party is not a separatist, but a Republican People's Party is a Uniter.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0127par0360	Don't forget my lesson.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0125par0361	The Republican People's Party is not divided, it's not terrorism, it's always integrity from the Republican People's Party. It's not your job to damage people's honor and dignity here. Second: If you are to build a dwelling, go, do it for the martyrs in Southeast Anatolia, do it for the veterans, do it for their relatives, and also do it for those poor people who are left on the street. Don't come here and talk to us.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0128par0363	The Azerbaijan thing...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0125par0364	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0129par0366	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0130par0367	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0129par0368	Mr. Purcu, what's up?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0130par0369	Mr. President, my dear, dear friends, I, here, as a Turkish citizen, am very sad right now. Because we've been living in this land as brothers for years, but Roman, we still forget our brothers. It's a refugee residence, Mr. Secretary, but why don't you do it to the Roma? There are still Roma living in tents. Minister, please, don't forget the Roma, I mean, we're still living in tents. Refugees are given 55,000 dwellings, why are Roma not built?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0131par0371	Right, let's do it, let's do it to them.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0132par0372	It's in the transcripts, Mr. Purçu. Members of parliament, talks have been completed on whether or not the motion to ask for a motion to be filed on Foreign Minister Mevlüt Sergeant is on the agenda. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes on whether or not the motion to be brought up. All those who have agreed to the motion for the motion to be brought up... those who have refused... the motion for the gene is not accepted. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, we are starting talks on Diyarbakır MPs İdris Baluken and Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel, and on the opening of a genome on behalf of Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel (11/6) on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, on behalf of the People's Group, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, on the charge that they have victimised citizens with urban transformation projects across Turkey and that they have caused the destruction of nature (11/6). Government? Here.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0133par0382	Mr. President, take a break.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0132par0383	Congressmans, we've moved on to the next motion for a gene, so please don't break the peace.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0134par0384	Take a five-minute break.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0132par0385	You can either sit in our seats or take a tea break backstage. Please, Congressmans, I'm going to call the speakers to the stand.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0135par0386	Mr. President, in this environment, the speaker can't speak. Give me five minutes! There's such a thing as shame.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0132par0388	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Sergeant, if you'd be so kind as to give your seat to Mrs. Güldemet. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0136par0391	Oh, no, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0132par0392	Our ministers, our deputies, please... we've moved on to the next question, we've read it. I do not re-read the motion because it was previously published and was read in the 71st Union of the General Assembly, dated April 12, 2016.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0136par0394	Mr. President, not under the circumstances. Why don't you take a five-minute break?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0132par0395	Okay, when I call the speaker, I'll give him a warning. According to Article 99 of the Constitution, 1 member of the Constitution's proposals will be promised to the MP on behalf of the political party groups and 1 minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers and 1 minister on behalf of the Prime Minister or Minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionrs, 20 minutes for the groups and the government. Now, I read the names of the members of the following members: Diyarbakır MP Mr. Çağlar Demirel; on behalf of the groups of Diyarbakır MP Mehmet Özhaseki; on behalf of the Milliyetci Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Mr. Baki Simsek, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group Şanlıurfa MP Osman Baydemir, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Mr. Gürsel Tekin, Kayseri MP Mehmet Özhaseki and on behalf of the Environment and Urbanisation Minister Mr. Fatma Güldemet Sarı will speak. Congressmans, please, let's sit down or take a tea break backstage. (11/6) The first word on whether or not the primary Gensorial Prescription is on the agenda...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0137par0400	Mr. President, this conversation cannot be held in this environment. You've been trying to maintain general order for five minutes, according to the Civil Code 65, and 68, but there's no order. Either you have to take a break, or in this environment, the speaker...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0132par0401	I'll take a break if there's anything disturbing about this conversation. You're right, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0137par0402	It can't be spoken at the moment, I insist.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0132par0403	Congressmans, please, I beg you... The first statement is from Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0138par0406	Mr. President, this is no way to speak here, in this General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0132par0407	Look, there's silence, Mr. Ironel, more than ever. If there was noise, noise, I'd take a break, I'd do it again, no problem, but... here you go, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0138par0408	Mr. President, this is no way to have a conversation in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0139par0409	Take five.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0132par0410	No, it's quiet, no problem. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0140par0414	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, the General Assembly should actually be listening to these incoming genomes, the function and function of today. He's going to be working with the public in the field, and the General Assembly should be listening to the criticisms and approaches of the people who will express them, the MPs and ministers in the General Assembly here, and you're sending them out for tea. Really, I'd like to express it with regret.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0132par0416	At least I'm doing this for you, Mr. Demirel, so there won't be a buzzing in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0140par0417	Yes, I'm here today to take a moment to discuss the general question we've given to the Minister of Environment and Urbanism. I'd like to start by telling Mr. Secretary from the very beginning that we've directed this gene to the minister because of the first degree responsibility for the city's urban and social destruction, which has been made for several districts, especially Sur and Silopi, in the recent rush to publicisation decisions. We know that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has become the institution at the center of the AKP's construction-based policy. For 14 years, we have seen together that AKP's understanding of urbanization and urbanism has been much more destructive, exploitive, and illegal in its rule. In the coup against Gezi Park in İstanbul, the third bridge was illegally built, and in the massacre of olives in Soma Yırca village, the logic of this unlawful exploitation has repeatedly been expressed. Yes, rather than a healthy urban development, we all bear witness to the extent of the destruction of an understanding that could be in the best interest of the public, rather than the threat of disaster and urban transformation. It is necessary to say and express in such a manner that the AKP's rule of state has recently reached the extreme point of urban exploitation. We, too, have been unable to keep up with the speed of the AKP government's rash publicisation decisions in recent weeks. When we first looked at the times in which the Council of Ministers used its urgent publicisation power, and we discussed today's AKP power as of the process that we came in, 14 urgent decrees were made between those years, but within the AKP rule, nearly 2,000 were immediately passed, so the plunder process was clearly advanced. This looting and looting process is where it finally comes in, and it needs to be seen. Where the right of life was easily violated, the funerals were held on the streets for days. An operation has now been launched in various districts of Sur, Silopi, Diyarbakır, Hakkari, Mardin, Şırnak. Those who say they are on their way to maintain public order are causing total public destruction in Kurdish provinces. So the ruling party, which opposes social and cultural heritage and works like a contractor, is now trying to attract capital under the name "publicization" after it has destroyed Suru, Cizre, Idil, Idil, Silopi, and Silopi with tanks. Even if Mr. Minister of Environment and Urbanism said that that's not what they did, on 1 April 2016, during the Diyarbakır talks, he said: "First of all, what we will do is to negotiate with the citizens if they want housing or other alternatives, we will compromise with them by offering housing or other alternatives. The last resort, if there is no solution at all, will be publicisation. It has been said. But now those who speak these words are experiencing a contradiction as the minister who demanded a decision to adopt them. Because, as the Minister stated, reconciliation with the citizen, a one-on-one solution, the primary goal was to consult with the public, elected local governments and other local actors in the first place. But let's be very clear: such a process has not been conducted in Sur district of Diyarbakır. Let's ask Mr. Secretary some questions based on the situation in Tyre. In the seven thousand-year Sur district, hosted by the Kurds, Armenians, Süryanis, Ezidis, Turkmens, Arabs, is it not a sign that the decision of the Council of Ministers, which was issued on March 21st, was issued in the official newspaper on March 25th, in which the government seized the entire district? Did he hear any growing objections in the city since the day the verdict was issued, Mr. Secretary? If he hasn't heard, we'll tell him. In Diyarbakir, 310 institutions were assembled and the Surici (Surichi) Reservative and Living Platform was established. The decision is legally supported by Diyarbakır Bar Association to thousands of owners who are entitled to appeal until April 21st. So, Mr. Secretary, when we said all of this, why didn't you even feel the need to contact the parties in Diyarbakır who were dealing with this in the first degree? If you were to implement the municipal protection zoning plan in 2012, why didn't you even feel the need to discuss it with the municipality, and why didn't you discuss it once with the answer to the question? Yes, Mr. Secretary, we have a few questions for you. You have now declared a curfew -- 14 days -- again. You have now burned down, destroyed, and destroyed nearly 100 houses in Cleopatra, along with rubble, without the public's consent, without informing its owners, as if it were a risky area. The people who object now face tanks, cannons, and weapons. Again, Mr. Secretary, is it legal, moral, that you convert areas under urban transformation, when families still haven't been able to get their funerals from Tyre, and they haven't been removed from the blockade, while the residents haven't seen their own living spaces? You're experiencing a cultural genocide in Tyre. Yes, you set the destruction of history, culture, and beliefs as a target in front of you. What do you have to say about the fact that women's bodies have been recovered from the rubble and that they are still unaccounted for? Mr. Secretary, as a woman, we're curious to know what kind of opinion you have on this matter. Even though people's homes have been destroyed, how do you feel about their personal belongings being thrown into a field in rubble, before their eyes? As a woman minister, how do you express these things, and how do you allow them? In the cities and districts where you've been granted a decree of publicisation, where houses are destroyed and burned with tanks and cannons, who do you pursue the places you've taken under the name of urban transformation? Who did you give their corruption to? Yes, in Sur, your deputies and those you've assigned to the families have expressed their desire to buy their homes. Yes, we have the judge, we have the law, we have the administration, we have everything. Those who say "It's all in our hands." Today, they will carry out their plundering policy for Tyre. We'll never let that happen. You burned down their homes, seized their homes, and divorced the houses with their belongings, and now you have made a decision to make it official by practicing it. Yes, very clearly, in a time when the blockade has not been lifted from 2 December 2015 until now, Mr. Secretary, will you plant houses on the sites where the funerals are still there, or will you build outposts there? Parents are curious about the answers to these questions. The families of those who didn't receive their funerals are very curious: What people will you bring to the places where our funerals are located and put them here? It literally states: Do you know that the neighborhoods that you've built, which are in urban status, have actually been determined by destruction, and that the decisions of the protection board are being observed, and that the areas that are being carried out against the law, as well as yourselves? And as if that wasn't enough, did you know that yesterday, last week, you brought it up in the bag of law and closed the legal areas? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You, as a woman, are supposed to organize the environment and city arrangement, but unfortunately, you're taking the territory, not to the public initiative, but to the Ranta and capital. That's why I'm waiting for you to answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0141par0431	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the group, the first word belongs to Mersin MP Baki Simsek. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0142par0436	Mr. President, in creating cultural and humanitarian degeneration of urban transformations, in creating cultural and humanitarian degeneration of urban transformations, the first-level responsibility to increase the level of exploitation in nature by the Environment and Urbanism Minister Mr. Fatma Güldemet Yellow, who has been taken over by the EPA and the HES, in the wake of the decision by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, to create the victims of citizens in urban transformations throughout Turkey and to create the land space for capital. I hereby salute your high council. We find that those who have declared self-government and planted bombs and killed 464 soldiers and police in Sur, over 20,000 people from their homes, to their homelands, to those who destroyed historical and cultural buildings, to those who looted, to those who planted bombs in their homes, to those who did not make a statement today about Sur and Silopi. There are 450 historical homes, 27 mosques, 7 churches, 1 synagogue, 140 findings, and we support the restoration of them in a proper manner, and then the destruction of unhealthy structures in this region to replace them with new buildings that fit the fabric of the region. However, while these are being done, it should be noted that people who live here are not forced to live outside this area by being valued by the priorities of the people who live here. We believe that their municipality of residence in this area should not only be looked at commercially, but also protect the identity of Tyre. Dear MPs, the Surici district of Diyarbakır Council for the Protection of Cultural Assets 29/9/1988 days... Mr. President, if you'll keep the House quiet, there's a lot of noise.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0143par0441	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary is not listening or listening to a ruling party.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0144par0442	You address the General Assembly. Congressmans, Mr. Secretary, please, the noise is coming in here, so let's not disturb the character.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0145par0444	...and by its 38th Amendment, it has been declared an urban status area at the 1st degree. The first zoning plan for protection in the Surici region was drafted in 1990. The Metropolitan City Assembly suspended this plan in 2008, and in 2012, it was adopted by Sur City Council and Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, under the opinion of the Protection District Council. In 2012, Diyarbakır Surici was declared a risky area. In 2015, Diyarbakır Walls and Hevsel Gardens entered UNESCO World Heritage List. Of course, the decision on the immediate publicisation of the high-risk areas has been issued on 21/3/2016 and on the Council of Ministers' Decision 2016/8659 and on 25/3/2016 dates and on 29664. In previous years, the Metropolitan Municipality and Sur Municipality, TOKI and the Governorate, agreed to jointly adopt a publicisation. In 3 neighborhoods -- Alipaşa, Lalebey and Cevatpaşa -- these studies were carried out in cooperation, but were not achieved. The victims of the attack were caused by a terrorist organization. The work must be supported by the destruction of the illegal buildings in Surici, the emphasis on local architecture, historical and cultural values, to protect the heritage of our culture left to us. Many historical mosques, inn, have to be restored to the city, especially the walls. While protecting historical tissue, both our people's rights and laws must be protected, neither of which should be compromised. Living in healthy buildings is the right of every citizen living in Turkey. The city's skyline must be protected while the habitable buildings are being built. As a result, we support the urgent publicisation decision taken at Tyre. In order to end the victims of our people here, the restoration and construction activities must be completed immediately. Our people, over 20,000 of their houses, must return to Tyre. The money must not be accounted for, the state must complete its absence, and the people of Tyre must return to their homes according to neighbourly law. The memory and identity of Tyre must be preserved. In addition, the fact that urban transformation is not converted into a random transformation is the most important issue. In view of our people, the needs of our citizens are to prepare projects, and the work must be designed to stimulate trade and tourism in the region. Dear lawmakers, since urban transformation laws and regulations have emerged, negotiations between citizens and citizens and citizens and citizens have confused many people and led our citizens to despair, except for some individual examples. Political will must ensure that I share the rights between citizens-clients and citizens-TOKI by making the necessary legal arrangements. Our citizens and contractors must be saved from years of trials, inconsistencies. Unfortunately, Turkey has not managed well in the last 40 years, where the migration from village to city has been intense, and the outskirts of all cities have been caught unprepared for this migration. Lands with construction plans and infrastructure were not produced, but were built into unsanitary, illegal buildings and slums. In the city, with the ambition to win more and more, illegal floors have been built on the existing houses, municipalities have taken donations and bribes and put electricity, water and natural gas in these buildings, and condoned illegal construction. Unfortunately, the same approach continues, and many cities, especially Istanbul during the election period, continue to build heavily illegal construction. The sixteen-nine skyscrapers that were stabbed into Istanbul's heart like daggers, five-strength plots sold by TMSF (as a precedent) as one, and history will never forgive those who have lifted the precedent to 2.5 floors and released the height. If the necessary legal arrangements are not made in Turkey and Turkey does not plan for the future, our grandchildren will continue to discuss the same issues 50 years later. In İzmir alone, the number of illegal buildings is around 60-65 per cent. 313,000 illegal buildings across the province of İzmir must be assessed as part of urban transformation. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has declared 918 hectares, the Metropolitan Municipality 308 hectares of urban transformation and development. However, neither the Ministry nor the Metropolitan Municipality has taken a concrete step, except for the municipality of Narlıdere. The situation is the same throughout Turkey. TOKI is busy building million-dollar buildings, while unfortunately, people continue to live in the suburbs. The oldest olive tree of Turkey, planted in 1071, has been removed from its land for 945 years, and moved to Antalya, where it is kept, hoping that Allah, Bismillah, will keep it here. From whom was the removal of the olive tree from its thousand-year-old soil, and its transfer to a new location? As Minister of the Environment, I expect you to answer for this. In the EU countries that you're so curious about, there's been a hell of a situation like this. Dear lawmakers, during the 14-year period of AKP rule, not a single urban transformation project has been implemented in Mersin central and no district, particularly my constituency district, Mersin. Unfortunately, the government, which has unlimited power and authority over everything, has left an entire city to its fate. Urgently, 1/100 in all of Turkey. 000 environmental layout plans, 1/5,000 nazim zoning plans and 1/1. The plans for the construction of the 000-alarm application must be completed in all of Turkey. Residential areas, trade areas, industry, tourism and agricultural areas must be determined and put an end to mayhem. Infrastructure-made, investment-ready tourism and industrial areas should be presented to the public's service. Otherwise, the majority of our people who are struggling with bureaucracy are giving up their investments. Even a man who has to build a chicken farm in the village has to get ideas from nine institutions: the environmental and urban administration, the forest district manager, the DSI regional directorate, the road manager's office, the museum directorship, TEDAS; food, agriculture and animalism district, the mayorate of urban water and sewage management; the development situation from municipalities in addition to all these, the project given to five engineers, construction control and construction process, the CED process. It's almost impossible for a citizen in the village to invest in such an investment. In order to obtain a permit for a 1 megawatt, you must deal with bureaucratic permits for at least a year. Building regulations and Building Law 3194 must be changed immediately, especially in 18 applications, to end the confusion. All public-owned areas must be considered as part of the share of the arrangement partnership, and if the share of the arrangement is required, the share of the partnership should be raised to 45 per cent or even 50 per cent. In the developing world, 40 per cent of the arrangement is insufficient for partnerships, both the necessary road widths and social utensils. Thousands of people are participating in joint accession areas within a regulatory zone, while municipalities and ministries are dealing with unresolved publicisation. Dear lawmakers, the salaries and rights of Tapu and Kadastro employees must be reviewed, if necessary, to be given a share of the return capital, to be finished with Turkey's land and forest cadastros, to be replaced with cadastro renovated where a lot of people are now owned, along with the detection and grounds. With advances in GPS and photography today, both cheap and faster maps can be made. Turkey's main problem after terrorism and unemployment is planning. Instead of doing a million-dollar housing project delivered to the Rant environments, instead of building buildings three or ten kilometers outside the city's identity, which are not compatible with its fabric, on the other hand, we expect you to do what you've always said in elections, but you can't do it all the time, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can do it, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can do it, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it. We want you to immediately finish the transformations in cities and villages and plan Turkey's future. Dear lawmakers, I believe that the plans for development in cities include planning infrastructure, subterranean services, all services such as electricity, water, gas, TELEKOM, sewers, all services are to be done at the same time with the hands of all institutions and to be brought a standard under the ground where to transport natural gas, electricity, and water, and to be fought on the underground maps by failure. As Minister of the Environment, I expect you to be involved with the children who collect paper on the streets in the period of time leading up to solid waste storage and recycling facilities, ban coal and coal distribution in our cities, which is the most important cause of air pollution. I also believe that in the construction of RES, GES and HES, in order to preserve natural beauty, to produce 1-2 megawatts of electricity, the Black Sea and other regions should not be destroyed, the future generations should have values that we should all have left to us and to the next generation. In the 2011 elections, the Black Sea and the Marmara Project, which you announced as a crazy project, the Canal Istanbul Project, which will unite the Black Sea and the Marmara, both in publicisation and in the construction plan, the protection of the citizens' rights and law, and the information of the landowners in the region. Really, is Canal Istanbul needed under the economic and social conditions of Turkey? Or do you want to set up a new runt center in the capital circles? How much land has changed hands in the area where the project is being built, and who has bought these land? When the land that is bought from people for the price of the field is built by the throats and skyscrapers tomorrow, the consciences will be aching. Dear lawmakers, Marmara, industry and population density have now become unbearable. The region of Adana, Mersin, Niğde, Aksaray, and Kayseri, who are more virgin than Marmara, is a candidate for the second Marmara, both in industry and in tourism. I find only Istanbul-based sharing of public investments unfair. It would be in Turkey's best interest to move the mega-projects to Adana, Mersin, Kayseri, Niğde, Aksaray. As a man of Çukurova, I expect you to give the necessary support to the Trekukova Airport and the Coast Bandic Project, which has been neglected for years, with constant excuses, and to fight for the implementation of the road and fast train projects between the two major cities. How many years must the districts of Mersin wait to meet natural gas? Although natural conditions are difficult for Ermenek, of the population of 10,000 people, we do not accept that those who bring natural gas should make excuses for their districts with more than 100,000 inhabitants of Mersin. Precious lawmakers must continue to fight terrorism until the state, the military, the police, the governor, the governor, alone in the streets; until everyone collects electricity, water, natural gas money and taxes; until every Turkish citizen is able to travel freely all over Turkey, to do civil service. I declare that we will not support those who are under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, who have taken a salary from here, who have not even shown the courtesy of swearing in front of the Turkish nation, who have not endured the Turkish flag, who have ignored it for years and debated it, and who, despite all these shortcomings, turn their backs on terrorism and terrorist supporters, who join the terrorist funeral, will not support those who join in the terrorist funeral, will vote against the geneor. It is our duty to protect the reputation of the Turkish state and the Turkish nation, but it is the government's duty first. In the United States, I believe it is necessary to respond in the same way to those who have been rude to meet our President with a sergeant and Mr. Sergeant. For thousands of years, I have stated that we will not share a square metre of this land that we have lived with, and that we will not share it with anyone, and that the names of our martyrs who died in the city of Tyre, Silopi, should live here, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0146par0464	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0147par0465	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0146par0466	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0147par0467	Mr. President, as the speaker began his speech, he condemned us for bringing this motion to this meeting, as we did not say anything about the places that were burned down, that we didn't say so. I demand a say in his affairs.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0146par0468	To your group at this point...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0147par0469	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0146par0470	Here you go. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0148par0472	Mr. President, my testimony is that you didn't say anything to the burners or to the wreckers. In the form of that, you can look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0146par0473	Okay, so we're going to have to...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0148par0474	Since Mana is being told to go to a different place, you can look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0146par0475	Yeah, yeah, without a new pick-me-up.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0149par0478	Thank you, Mr. President. It's obvious who burned it down, who had tanks and cannons, they burned the fields, burned down historical sites and destroyed them. First of all, let's say that even though there were no incidents, we still had such a project. He said that this was a premeditation project, and there was an attempt to be carried out in Tyre, and that's what we want to say. So, we specifically ask Mr. Secretary, who has carried out these earlier plans today: You know that the concrete blocks that you're building around the walls are the historical heritage area of UNESCO are actually contrary to UNESCO. You turned schools and health clinics into police stations. It's a fact that you don't leave a living space for the people who live there and you turn those fields over to the military and the police, and you have to see it. Secondly, we're going to follow this process, we've followed it from the beginning, and we're going to follow it from now on. First you burn it down, then you practice the floor, then you try to turn it into a legal framework, and then you start to do it with the bag of laws, and with the rush of publicization, you start to cover it up and close the judicial path. Mr. Secretary, this is illegal. You are now in violation of Article 35 of the Constitution. So I'll make it very clear that you guys ran a war law there. You have to see this war law. We're going to follow up on who you're going to be chasing around in those areas. What are you trying to do by taking over the local initiatives without acting according to the demands of the people there? What you'd like to work there is a complete, historical process that we've seen before. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm saying that a culture is to destroy history and commit genocide. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0150par0487	Now, on behalf of the groups, the second word...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0151par0488	Mr. President, can I have a quick word for the Civil Code of 60?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0150par0489	Please, in a minute...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0151par0492	Thank you, Mr. President. We've just had a meeting with the State Department, and I've stated that the Minister did not give information to the General Board and the public about what was going on in the church during that session, and if possible, he should do this information on the basis of this gene. Unfortunately, they have fallen into the position of observers and supporters of two of our citizens, as well as of an attack on the church, because three apples have fallen from the sky for a long time. In the form of a fairy tale, the rocket fell on the church. The attack has been attempted to be shadowed and overlooked by the news. There are also reports that the death toll could increase in today's attack. Even this news itself... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll be right back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0152par0497	Mr. Baluken, we talked about your principle decisions.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0151par0498	I guess I'll have to...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0152par0499	No, just a minute after we're on the agenda. That was before the agenda. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0151par0501	It's not acceptable, Mr. President -- let me put it this way -- I mean, those who still have the same insensitive attitude towards the attacks on the Church, the General Assembly and Turkey who don't inform the public, are actually giving away how they want to cover up these attacks. I mean, how accurate our motion for a gene is and how dirty the intertwined relationships are, it also comes out of the cover-up of these attacks. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0152par0503	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Special, I'll give you a minute according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0153par0507	Mr. President, we're interviewing a general question given in accordance with the Constitution and the Civil Code. Mr. Secretary is in position, but we're not the group that gives you the gene, but you see the status of the Republican People's Party in the hall. And we're not dealing with the genesor, and should we make sense of the fact that Mr. Secretary's group has been left alone at this point, where he's never been seen before, or is it one of the final points where the ruling party's geneor is going to defunction? But at the very moment, the lawmakers are about to come in and make a decision based on the tip of the group vice president's finger, it's probably the biggest insult to the House. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let them come and watch, and we'll know if they're not behind their Minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0154par0511	Mr. Cakir, please.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0155par0513	Mr. President, thank you. The Republican People's Party group spokeswoman, Mr. Free Special, is clearly teaching us a lesson, and we don't need that kind of lesson. Each MP appreciates how, where, when, when to vote. We're behind our Minister, we're behind our government, and Mr. Special can't decide when our group goes in or when it comes out. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0156par0516	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the groups, the second word belongs to the People's Democratic Party Group, Şanlıurfa MP Osman Baydemir. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] You've got 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0157par0524	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you with respect, love and respect. The city of Sur, Diyarbakır Sur district, Amid, Amid, Amida, is facing a major attack on humanity for eight thousand years, which is a great sweat for civilisations to come to this point today. I would like to wish that the gene and the calls we've given today, the explanations, would be a reason to stop these attacks and destructions, and above all, Mr. Secretary, to be able to ask them how to stop these attacks that the Ministry has done so far, and how to get rid of this pollution. Yes, life has not been interrupted in Sur City for 8,000 years. Do you know how long? Until AKP's curfew. Life in Sur City has not been interrupted for all 8,000 years before the AKP declared a curfew. Over the course of these eight thousand years, Tyre has been attacked many times, and Tyre has been surrounded, but no one has been able to capture Sur, or Surichi, or Surichi, or the inhabitants of Sur, or the inhabitants of Tyre, by force. Be assured that neither ye, nor ye, shall be able to take the inhabitants of Tyre, nor the inhabitants of Tyre, by force, by violence, and by algebra. No doubt this city, which has hosted 33 civilizations, and all the inhabitants of this city, no matter who it is, when it extends its hand of friendship, when it extends its hand of life together, it opens the door of its city and its heart to all mankind, to all civilizations. Therefore Tyre is multilingual, and Tyre is very faithful, and Tyre is a multicultural city. I would like to express that I have the great honor of registering the historical and cultural structure of Tyre as the common heritage of mankind, to moving it into the future, to be the basis of respect for the past, and to be the denominator of a great strategy for almost years. And just as we've made sure that the Cultural Landscape Project of the Diyarbakir Castle and the Hevsel Gardens is taken to UNESCO World Heritage List, I'm speaking to you now as a brother who's been working hard when the ant is blacked out in this process. For these goals, we have worked primarily with our people in a joint working perspective with all public institutions and institutions, including NGOs, occupational organisations, universities, the government. The destruction imposed on Surah today is also intended to be veiled, covered by covering and covering the work we have conducted with the ministry for protection of our zoning plan and for the protection of the walls in order to justify crimes against humanity, as well as by referring specifically to the two projects. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers were under the centre, which was, in 2005, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and all the dynamics in the city, the site of the Surah, which we today referred to as the site of the establishment, the site of the site, the site of the field shrines, as well as the churches, mosques, as well as some kind of city, which had not yet been exposed, has not yet been exposed. In order to uncover this archaeological site, we have entered into the effort of implementing a project with the Public Housing Authority, the Prime Minister's office, the governorate and the city's dynamics. Our main goal was to preserve the wall's protective tape, and to ensure that all the buildings, the baths, the ambulances, and all the work that were in the archaeological site were continued. At this point, 68 per cent was achieved, 68 per cent successful. The only reason it stayed at 68 percent was because the housing reserve was not enough for the people who lived there, and it was a work by me until the end of 2013. Again, this study is an expression of a first in the history of the republic. There would not have been any commercial construction on the decontamination structures, and as a whole archaeological site, it would have been registered inside our conservation plan. The only project that the Public Housing Authority has not been able to obtain a penny from the day it was founded is the very project that we have become partners in, so all the public resources that have been spent have been used to expose and only that human heritage to the future. The second was Ali Pasha and Lalebey. In the same perspective, in the hope that the work in Ali Pasha and Lalebey had not been declared, and in some way today's policy, the governor of the period, along with the Public Housing Administration in 2008, has prepared a free project and has been asked to be carried out under the instructions of the prime minister of this free project. The goal of that free project in 2008 was to remove all structures in Ali Pasha and Lalebey neighborhoods and instead build five-story buildings by the Public Housing Authority. All NGOs in the city object to this, and together with the Council of Sur, we were involved in the process, and we broke protocol in 2008, and we built a new protocol in 2009, and in that protocol, Ali Pasha and Lalebey have a 50 per cent consolidation policy based on the development plan for protection, but it cannot even sink into this area and Sur. Mr. Secretary, can you hear me?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0158par0533	The Minister isn't listening.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0157par0534	Mr. Secretary, it's consensual, not based on Reza...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0158par0535	Mr. President, who's his client?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0157par0536	...with a perspective, a single person's nose didn't bleed, a single fight, and without a single noise, there were 50 percent successes. One of the reasons why the other 50 percent didn't come to life was that one of our basic perspectives was 50 percent of the way that each of our citizens, who said, "I'm going to restore this place, in accordance with its perspective, in order to give consent to our request, and to allow him to restore his own structure. So, as these studies continue, the Nazi development plan, which would combine the region of Diyarbakır Surici with the abstract, concrete human heritage, to present cultural tissue to the common service of the human family, to the common perspective of the human family, was the first time in Turkey, with the contribution and participation of all the dynamics of the city in 2012, with tens, hundreds of meetings, from the neighborhoods, to all public institutions and institutions, and even security units, to create a sense of ownership in the city, and this plan took place for the first time in Turkey, with the contribution and the success of the city of Diyarbakır City, the Suru, which carried out its lists and heritage from the community to the province, to all its institutions and institutions and institutions, and even the security units. In this time period, your Ministry first tried to slaughter the Hevsel Gardens with HES. Again, with the city's dynamics on the move and the trial in the administration court, it was only eliminated. Not only that, your ministry again declared the Hevsel Gardens and the Tigris Valley as a housing reserve. Once again, the city's dynamics were activated, but that decision was cancelled in the administrative court. Here is the process that was brought into this Parliament last week by the law, blocking the path of justice, just today, to prevent what you want to do from happening, a city massacre is nothing but an arrangement that closes the path of justice in order not to be prevented. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I would like to say once again today that no city can be protected, protected by the safety perspective of the goalkeepers. Only cities that can be protected by peace, but only cities that can be moved into the future by peace. Peace comes with freedom, it is protected with justice, and it is carried into the future by democracy. In 1939 and 1953, we can see the street tissue from the aerial photo taken in Diyarbakir. So, the construction plan for protection itself is to protect this street fabric and this historical masterpiece, but even now they dodoze and scoops destroy this historical structure, street tissue, this cultural tissue, concrete and abstract tissue in some way. In fact, Mr. Secretary, memory is being destroyed, memory itself is being destroyed. Now, while the destruction is going on, not only do the rubble move, but the dowry items of the young women found in the wreckage of those buildings are being carried away, body parts are being carried away, some kind of memory of the people. And why is this entire process being done? So this whole process is this plan that we want to turn into a city of tourism, and we're trying to implement it with a protection plan, but we're seeing what you've done for the building of the citadel. Schools are being built, sort of like Nasrettin Hoxha, Mr. Secretary. While you were speaking in Diyarbakir, the province; Mr. Prime Minister, again, in Diyarbakır, when speaking in front of Ulucami, like Nasretttin Hoxha's donkey in Diyarbakir, ladle, grapefruits, even though a firecracker did not explode, they were performing the destruction process, and in this process, the roads that you see on the map, the boulevards, the main arteries, the squares are being created within the site. It's a slaughter, it's a destruction. I assure you, Mr. Secretary, the destruction of ISIS against Palmira is the same as the destruction that you are now in Sur, and it has the same consequences. This is a photo taken from the air a week ago. I'm showing you a picture of the destruction right now, Mr. Secretary. And this is where the urban tissue is still standing before the destruction. Loud and clear, Mr. Secretary, you're trying to bring tanks and cannons into the streets where you can't wash them, with tanks and cannons, with grapefruits and dozers and bulldozers. There are a few things that make a state a state that gives it legitimacy. One of them is to protect the right to live. Another is, of course, to protect, protect, and improve freedoms, but another is to protect and protect property rights. So here's our perspective, the diversity of property that we've protected with a protection zoning plan, is a picture of property color. Mr. Secretary, this is a photograph of you and your government's view of property. The entire red-painted area is the area seized by the government itself. 90 per cent of Tyre is now in impound. Mr. Secretary, this is not the law; this is not the rule of law. It is violence at all; but to me, it is iniquity. Once again, in ten years, we have been in the quest and effort to produce together, to achieve together, and to leave a good legacy to the bright future, to future generations. You have been chosen from Adana, and as far as I know, you have been chosen by 76 thousand votes, or you have been chosen by 77,000 votes. Gültan Kışanak was elected with 396 thousand votes from Firat Anlı. Our mayor of Sur was elected by over 100,000 votes. Whatever your democratic legitimacy is, it's the least democratic legitimacy of our friends. Every plan you've made there, ignoring the city, ignoring the mayors, ignoring the NGOs, is illegitimate, illegitimate. Can I tell you something, Mr. Secretary? In 2004, in 2009, in 2014, today's President requested Prime Minister Diyarbakir. The people of Diyarbakir did not show gratitude. What you're doing right now, Mr. President's grudge, his anger is being made to the people of Diyarbakir by you, by your Ministry. Rest assured, Mr. Secretary, all ministries are temporary, proxy are temporary, mayors are temporary, all representation positions are temporary. You may not accept my call to you today politically, but look at the minister before you, not me, and look at the practice he's been exposed to. The vultures are all over the Wall today. I assure you, those vultures are going to your office a lot right now, too, to get a runt, to get a bite. I'd like to bring them to your attention once again, on this occasion, that they are more than your group in Congress today. This practice was once again imposed on Diyarbakır, again imposed on and again in the same neighborhoods, you know, in the same neighborhoods. Well, today, we're witnessing a reality that's almost competing in racism, fascism. One of them says, "We will not leave our heads on the head." One says: "We will either bow our heads or not leave rocks on the stone." By God, God, no head cut off, no head cut off, no age cut off, no salvation, and this policy will not prosper, nor will this policy succeed. The policy imposed on Surah today is actually to compete with Assad, to compete with Saddam, to build belts, to play on the population, demographic structure. The people of Diyarbakir did not give you their consent in Sur, in the capital city, and you have nationalized the Sur Mayor's service building. Have a heart, Mr. Secretary, have a heart! Right now, the Great Mosque, Hasan Pasha Inn, Cemil Pasha Mansion, all of the projects that we've received, are publicized by you. Either this is an example of ignorance, or if you, people of Diyarbakır, don't give it to me in the election, ah, look, I'll seize it with such tyranny and violence. By Allah, all the tyrants have been a mercy to them. Allah has not shown mercy to them, but they have all lost their souls. I assure you, whoever is despot will be condemned to go through that trouble. Once again, I repeat the call to stop cutting tears, cutting heads, and leaving no stone on the stone. If you don't want to be exposed by the Minister before you to be used and thrown out, then you'll probably be cleared after our genome, and they'll come in line for congratulations, Mr. Secretary, and they'll be in line for congratulations. I think you can do as well as your professional identity, and come out, O government, this is an attack on cultural heritage, it's a crime of humanity. As an architect, I'm not signing this crime, I'm resigning from the Ministry. If you say so, humanity will applaud you, humanity will applaud you. [[Applause from HDP rows]] My deepest regards.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit02spe0159par0551	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0159par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (11/6) We will resume talks on whether or not the primary Gensorial Introduction is on the agenda. The government is here. In turn, on behalf of the groups, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it belongs to Mr. Gürsel Tekin. Here you go, Mr. Tekin.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0160par0007	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today I have made a promise of urban destruction. If you'll excuse me, I have to show you this map I have. As the Republican People's Party, in 2011, I sent this map to Prime Minister Erdogan, Minister of Environment and Urbanism, almost all the institutions of the state, especially regarding Istanbul, where I was acting. This map was also the constitution of Istanbul -- as Mr. Topbaş put it -- and the master's plan of Istanbul. Dear friends -- and I can send it back to Mr. Minister, and if it's not in the archives -- the only land, especially after the painful earthquake experience that we experienced in 1999, all over Turkey, especially Istanbul -- and many of our mayors here, they know very well -- the government of the period, in 1999 -- all the land, land, urban transformation, and earthquakes -- was reserved for the healing of the wounds of the nation, which we call state property, national real estate. Unfortunately, not only Istanbul, but all the plots that were reserved for this practice have been pursued by one, and Ranta has been sacrificed. I'm very curious now, especially the Minister's note: I'd like to know how many plots of land, such as the public plots, that need to be used for earthquake transformation, urban transformation, in Istanbul, I'd like to know how many plots there are. If they don't know themselves, I'll send them how many there are left. Secondly, I sent it to the former Prime Minister, Mr. Davutoglu himself as soon as Mr. Davutoglu became Prime Minister, but it is quite possible that Mr. Davutoglu was not given this information. Mr. Davutoglu, when we spoke in Istanbul the other day, they specifically said that we would not be involved in any practice that would cause the bones of our ecdad to be broken. Now, I'm a politician who first shares this with the public, I'm an MP, and when you look here, it's not just these two buildings on the historical peninsula, unfortunately, but especially when you look at what we call large areas of Istanbul, Rantfields, where the value is high, real value of real estate, you can see very clearly what an urban massacre looks like. On top of all this, Mr. Davutoglu used the expression: "There will be no further practice in these areas. " The Prime Minister obviously doesn't have any information at this time, there is not a single parcel that you can build now, but there is no historical peninsula, and there is no other place in Istanbul. Dear friends, I'd like to ask Mr. Minister again one question: there are two areas left in Istanbul; the first is cemetery areas, and the second is military areas. One of the military areas, importantly eight and a half million square metres, was handed over to the mayor of a district in Esen. Now, Mr. Secretary, what we know is that there are several institutions that have zoning powers that are known to many mayors -- the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the mayors of the capital. I'm curious to know why you gave this land to the mayor. Why didn't you take it? I mean, I don't know for what reason you gave Istanbul's urban transformation to the mayor of the county the place to use in all of these applications, even though they had serious problems with the earthquake. Now, regarding the place you gave us, former Prime Minister Erdogan said we would use it first as Canal Istanbul. He said that in the election period, during the same week, in the same week, three days, during which Mr. Prime Minister Esen said there would be 90000 dwellings at the rally he had made in Esen. He said about this place. I think Mr. Canikli has a statement either a day later or a day later. Mr. Canikli said it would be the center of the AVM, as if there were no malls in Istanbul. There's Mr. Topbaş's statement again -- you'll see when you look at all this -- and Mr. Topbaş said we'll build the biggest park in the world. Now, we're really curious. So I'm very curious to know what your practices in Diyarbakır will be if that is your practice in a very important city of 81 provinces. Secondly, I've looked through all the archives of your ministry to see if you have an urban transformation model that you can set as an example. I found three of them. One of them is Sultantown, where our Roman brothers are particularly dense. Although his current name is Sulukule, it's from the Ottoman Empire, where the greats and rulers of the Ottoman palaces of the age go and have fun. You know, our Roma brothers are more interested in music, naturally -- what you call Sulukule -- near the center of Sultantown, as we call it -- to go and do their own art in Aksaray (Aksaray), Salam, and some of the neighborhoods nearby. You've got a story about urban transformation. In parallel with the story you've made, unfortunately, we also know what disasters are facing as a result of the Aflame expansion, Roman expansion, and Kurdish expansion. In this area, for example, how many Roma brothers live where you have converted urbanally in Sultan neighborhood? Who took the land of our Roman brothers here, and at what cost did they take it? I'd appreciate it if you'd look into that, too. You'll have to look into that, too. Dear friends, since we've heard so much about these stories of the apocalypse, let's take a look at all the historical places, and look at the picture of how the green Bursa, which you call "substantial destruction," you call it, was slaughtered. You can also see very clearly which shade of the mosque that was left behind from our apocalypse. Again, once again, your next application is Mardin. All three are historic cities and historic cities. Dear friends, 76 percent of the geography we've experienced -- all the research -- is above fault lines. So at any moment -- God forbid -- we live in a geography where we can face an earthquake. I'm curious to know if there's a single practice you can illustrate, especially in accordance with the Government of the period's Law on Disasters, including public land, over 17 years ago. I hope you'll be able to give our MPs some information about him here. Dear friends, aren't there urban transformations in the world? We, the Republican People's Party, have repeatedly expressed that we are prepared to contribute all kinds of contributions to the urban transformation. When I was mayor, I went to Mr. Topbaş. Hüseyin Topbaş, one of Turkey's most important professors, gave us some very important information about Istanbul when the master's plan was under way in the head of the capital. Istanbul will have a 100,000-plus map of Istanbul, and Istanbul will no longer be handed over to Ranta, with such subtleness, including air corridors, and has expressed its desire for support for these studies. And we said, as the Republican People's Party, if you're really going to do a historical practice in Istanbul, if you're going to save Istanbul from the runt, we would support it and support it. When we asked at that time, there were no applications, including the third airport, including the third bridge, and under that practice, Mr. Topbaş has a commitment that there will be no Mr. Topbaş. Unfortunately, of course, with the will of the municipalities, Mr. Topbaş, and the power of Mr. Topbaş, the practices in Istanbul have been turned upside down, as if they were a bunch of tatters... there are only 246 AVMs in one city. You travel the world, you can never, ever show me that there are 246 malls in any country, in any city, in any historic city. And when we look at these malls, the important part of these malls is the public land, as I've just said, these areas that need to be used for earthquake transformation and urban transformation have unfortunately been assigned to your followers, your comrades, even your deputies. You may be very curious, Mr. Minister, if you look into who this land belongs to, you'll see very clearly that it's sold from the TMSF, it's sold in public. We're all very curious as to why the land sold from TMSF was sold before construction practices were made. And in Istanbul alone, according to our calculations in 2011, the Rantin created in Istanbul -- if the people are going to benefit from it, there is no objection -- is the amount of Rant that was created from this runt is $100 billion, $100 billion, I repeat. Now, while you're facing a very important problem, when you're facing something as vital as an earthquake, you're going to eliminate all of this, you're going to ignore all of this, you're going to take no precautions regarding urban transformation, you're going to tell us that we're going to transform urban here by being cute in Diyarbakir. Dear friends, eight years ago -- despite all our objections -- it would have been a model urban transformation site in the Ideatepe Training Center and Dumlupınar, still unresolved for eight years. But there's only one reason why it's so simple, so easy to solve, is because it's your power and your practices. When you looked at the area -- the area, unfortunately, the slum -- was near the buildings that people had built in the late 1980s or 1970s for housing, such as the Department of Child Welfare, the State Supplies Office. Why did you sell in such a hurry? Now someone has to explain, so thousands of people in that area have been victims for eight years, people have been exiled, and our buildings will be built in a short period of time. They have waited with hope. Eight years have passed, I'm afraid, more years will pass, and these practices will not be able to live here. Dear friends, when we looked at both of the plots, you had a lot of fights today, a lot of names, a lot of them, and a lot of them. Unfortunately, you sacrificed thousands of people by giving these plots to certain groups you call them. Again, Beyoglu, Balat, when we look at all of this, none of your applications so far are the apps that can give us, the community, the people. Dear friends, our former Mayor Osman Bey has just expressed that in 2013, you planned a master's plan for Sur. Who made this master's plan? You guys did it. When you look at all of this, what changed in this process, and now you're doing it? What are you doing? What are your applications? Look, this master's plan was made during your time. In my opinion, all kinds of NGOs have a master's plan, most likely with the help of municipalities. It's a shame it's never happened anywhere in the world until today. If you're very curious, if you want to take a sample, you can go, very soon you can see very clearly how urban transformation is in the East Berlin-West Berlin merger, how infrastructure is applied. Another question, Madam Secretary: Pinedian Hill. You know, Istanbul has seven hills. The seven peaks of Istanbul are not the tops of songs. When we looked back at our past history, there was only one hill in the seven hills, which did all the air circulation of Istanbul's air-conditioning mission, when there was no energy; Pinelıca Hill. You said there first, "Cami." We said, "Thank you." Besides, we don't think it's right to build a mosque on a hill when there are very suitable places for the mosque to be built. I'm particularly interested in what the President of the Religious Affairs thinks about it. You have a new app for 56 acres near the mosque, Minister, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. Is it your duty, for God's sake? Isn't it your job to take care of people's victims? On the contrary, there are now 56 acres of new zoning apps here. Look, despite the opposition of the district's municipality -- the city's opposition, the city's opposition again -- your own municipality, not enough, the Ministry of Culture of the era -- yet you open it by ignoring your own institutions and ignoring it. Who's the lucky guy? We're also curious about why you did this, why you did it, what you did it to whom you did it, when there were many victims of urban transformation around you. Dear friends, I, especially not just Istanbul, but many cities, especially Ankara... you know, they have public buildings. The important part of the public buildings you've seen is the government, the nation. It's interesting that the Ministry of Public Works of the period is selling to individuals most of the state's land in Istanbul, including Ankara. Subjects with very cheap money... so, there's only one example of this in Istanbul, which is probably being confiscated because they're fighting now, about another place they call parallel. For $2 million, the place that was purchased for $2 million, according to the year 2011 accounts, the ministry puts it on the market for a period of time. Since a rental space for forty-nine years will not be affordable by anyone else, the same person buys and receives three precedents. Where does he get this app? There's a zoning procedure where 34 people die, where there's a creek problem. So, when we look at your -- I'm sorry -- your applications so far, I see that you, as the Ministry, don't have any apps that I can at least see. And don't ever say anything like that again, for example, it's in the historic peninsula. In the historic peninsula... if the conqueror were alive, what would he do to you? Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0161par0030	Thank you, Mr. Tekin. Now, on behalf of the group, the final word belongs to Kayseri MP Mehmet Özhaseki. Here you go, Mr. Özhaseki.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0162par0034	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. On behalf of our party, I have made a pledge to Sur and Silopi. I'd like to share with you today what I think of our country and the private Diyarbakır Surici. In fact, it's a bit technical and important, and politics is not a subject to agitate. I've been mayor for years, and I've been president of the Historical Cities Association for seven years, which is the union of municipalities that hold historical artifacts. There, how to look at these events, what's the general approach, what's logic, how to build a project, how to restore a piece, how to load a function that is thought to be for protection while it's being restored, I've been president of a institution that, in fact, has trained members of municipalities for many years, and I've worked for it. And to be honest, I'd like to share my ideas with you. If I can afford it, I have only one goal as an MP, and I would like to renegotiate how we can renegotiate these regions in the districts of Surichi, Cizre, Silopi. Precious lawmakers, scientists say there are two regions as the world's oldest settlement; one is Mesopotamia, and the other is Anatolian land. In fact, in every corner of this Anatolian geography we live in, there's either an immortal adventure or a very important event, and there's a very valuable work of dozens of civilizations that have come to this day. Adeta, this geography must be protected, protected, protected like an open-air museum, and it must be passed on to future generations. But I regret to say that for hundreds of years, everyone has looked at these immortal artifacts on their side, as the treasurers, the treasurers, the city looters, the unconscious municipalities destroyed them, but from the 2000s, the events began to change a little bit. When we came to the Diyarbakır special, the valuable speakers had already expressed that this city had a very long history, had a history. According to the records available, a settlement in Bıztiktepe district of Bismil is emerging near nearly 10,000 years ago, and we also see that this society, which was especially established that day, developed food production technologies. She's almost the same age as Gobeklitepe. There are 33 civilizations that can be detected. From the Hurriites to the Syrians, to the Assyrians, to the Urartus, to the Sskits, to the Medo, to the Persians, to the Romans and to the Islamic civilization, there is a very long history and 1,236 registered works. When we come to Sur, it reaches the 3,000th century B.C.E., to the Hurri Mitannis, and Amida Höyük, located in the Interior, is known as the city's headquarters in history. There's the sacred Solomon mosque, 27 Sahabe shrines, historical government buildings, many churches, belts and fountains. There's a long wall around it, and there's still about 605 registered structures in it. Because of the importance of this region, I'd also like to talk about a few decisions that might actually be the cornerstone. It was declared an urban site as the Board of Monuments in 1980, then as the Diyarbakır Protection Board in 1988. In 2012, there was a development plan revision for protection. The Metropolitan Council approved it a month later. Three months later, with an application, the Council of Ministers declared a disaster-risk area. All these studies were based on an infrastructure study, and then applied to UNESCO, and then registered to the World Heritage of Diyarbakır Castle and the Walls in 2015. Many studies have been carried out in accordance with these decisions, and in 2009, they signed joint protocols for Diyarbakır Governorate, TOKI, Diyarbakır Metropolitan Mayor, Sur Mayor, and repeated the protocol several times. In fact, the issues agreed upon in all of these are one by one what the street fronts are going to be, how high the floors are going to be there, what the structures are going to be on the road and what the neighboring garden distances are going to be. And it's a good decision, yes, it's done well, and it's done well. By the way, they've been identified. In these findings, reports say that, in fact, walls, an integral cultural part of the city, are in danger of collapse. There's a lot of illegal construction in there. Basic infrastructure services that directly affect the quality of life such as water, canals, electricity, are troubled, not even garbage collection tools, and if there's a fire -- God forbid -- there's no way the fire can get in. There is a very unsafe environment for children, for young people, and for women. In 2013, the administration of the area of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality is doing another study; again it is the right work, the proper work. MEGAM-DER did it, which means the Mesopotamian Youth Research Center did it. Made in 11 neighborhoods. The common opinion is that there is no safety in Surichi. A substance abuse among young people has taken the lead. No cleaning. There's little green field work and there's a bit of a mess here. There's a gunfight here every day, and there's a lot of pot users, and the police are just coming to get them, and more cops are coming to them than tourists. I mean, these are the findings they made in 2013.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0163par0045	Thanks to who?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0162par0046	Again, these findings continue. When you meet with the chiefs and the kids there, there are demands. These are the right requests: let's protect the rules. Let's get the historical artifacts up. Let's set up a field trip. Let us cherish the ancient crafts of this region. Like copper mastery, let's re-enact all these branches of art, like rose oil, the production of silver water, the mastery of stone, etcetera. In particular, people give examples of Antalya, Mardin, Midyat, how the work of the people there has developed, how their work can be improved if they are built on walls, how their own work and its extremities can be developed in Surici, and when they are shown a protection plan, they say it's too late for this practice. It's not ours; it's the work done at that time in that area. Dear friends, after all this, I want to make it clear to you what we want to do in the light of these views: One is that the victims of those right-owners, given the victims of the people who are there, are the first to be compensated, so that's the first thing we're trying to do now, without looking at who destroyed the house -- the terrorists, the terrorists who destroyed the house, themselves, without seeing what they did there -- is give them their rights, the poor poor poor people there, and that's the first thing we're trying to do. Second of all, we just talked about the historical significance of this place. And that's the rise of historical artifacts, the preservation of historical, cultural heritage, the second goal, because I think they're a burden on all of us that we really have to carry into the common heritage and into the future. We're carrying a plague on this. It's really about restoring them, bringing them to life, putting a function into them. Then there's a traditional life. Let's see this traditional life as the result of a collection of thousands of years of civilization, not just the environment that terrorists have ruined for the last ten, 20 years. Let us never, ever reject that civilization, nor extinguish that traditional life there. Let the people who live there continue to live their lives in a more peaceful, better environment. That must be another base. Fourth, what we're trying to do out there, let's get the trade going. The streets of Veteran Street, Inönu and Melik Ahmet are in the heart of the trade. There's a very bad building stock here. As a result of the street health project, it is one of our purposes to have those markets, Bedandins, trade sites repaired and made them much more alive. If we can achieve these four goals, we'll be very happy. All of these goals are done there with tremendous positive discrimination, I'd like to point out. So the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Ministry of Development, especially the Foundations, Walls and historical artifacts found in this area over the last decade, the government has spent 125 trillion liras on Surici. When I listened to the speakers who were just here, I was startled, you know, by the tart, the pulling, the going. What rich one is coming? Who's sitting where? What kind of business is it that the state of the Republic of Turkey is coming, spending 125 trillion liras, and still people in that area are talking about taking a runt, making a go at it, it's hard to understand! There's a positive discrimination here. As a Turkish citizen, I support this discrimination as a Turkish person, so let's make it nice, but let's at least hand in the right. If possible, the Department of Environment and Urbanism has four or five other cities to show me, so let him do it there for God's sake, and let him do it there. There is nothing to be angry about. Let him do it to Sivas. Let him do it to Kayseri. Let him do it to Samsun. But at least you have to hand it over. Then, a month ago, when our Prime Minister went to Sur. He made a commitment underlineing the four issues that I had just explained. The day before, our ministers met there with NGOs, underlined these issues and identified them, promised. Why are we ignoring this, guys? The Prime Minister is leaving; the ministers are leaving; he promises, we're still talking about the rear end here; we're talking about looting; it's not clear! Our work from now on is clear, our road map is clear; we want to repair it in a way that is consistent with its historical history; we want to restore all historical artifacts and open them to the use of all mankind; we want the living to be happy; we want the people there to live in a very decent environment. By the way, of course, let me briefly tell you about a project that I've already prepared, which I think is ready. You know, they were just talking about the nationalization of the Great Mosque, and there's a project that's been set up in accordance with the department's development plan to protect 38 acres of land around the Great Mosque. Now, I'm going to show you a few of the old ones, and I'd like to ask you what's going to happen in the new version. This is what it used to be like on the project. Do you want it done or not?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0164par0057	What a shame! It's a shame, President!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0162par0058	It's a second place, guys. I'm talking about the same mall. It's what it used to be, and it's like this. For God's sake, guys, are you happy with this situation? Do you like it? You want to keep it that way? This is what's happening in the new project, which is now approved, which is about to be implemented. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, I find it difficult to make sense of what is contested.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0165par0061	You don't hold up history, Mr. President, you make history.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0162par0062	So, why are we being quick to get this executive decision? I think our friends are objecting to the decision to make this official decision. Friends use it in different ways, especially at the point of a decision to be passed, to those who don't know the practices of the past, or who, knowingly, want to do agitations by covering it up. It doesn't necessarily mean that a place is going to be nationalized. So...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0166par0064	Then why did you take it?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0162par0065	If you wait, you'll find out. It's not something you know, so please don't use words.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0166par0066	Like the sword of Damocles.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0162par0067	Have you ever heard of such a thing? Have you ever seen a place in your life where you've been ordered to hurry to publicize? No. What are you talking about? Can you please just listen respectfully and come talk to me here in a little while?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0166par0068	Why did you take it if you weren't going to publicize it?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0162par0069	Yeah, look, if you listen, you're gonna find out right now. Look, I'm telling you now. Friends, in order for the work to be conducted healthy, the only work to be done on the parcel site takes a long time, and we don't know much about what's coming our way.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0167par0071	Parsel! Like the parcels in Ankara?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0162par0072	Every time we go to the head of each parcel, the decision to nationalize it for him is a year's work. Let's deal with it here for years. If you say so, there's nothing else to do. Two, he's already banned the governor's deed on property to prevent a new rant door from being born here, and the executive decision has also prevented this business. A third issue is that there are so many problems in three feet, six feet, or three or five metres, that you need a publicisation decision in order to solve them. It's another matter. That protection plan, guys, it's done right, you have to follow it to its end, and I have to follow it, and we have to follow our other friends, and we don't have to do anything about it. Look, let's all make an alliance over it, make it especially. Now, if there's a way out here, if you don't get an executive decision when it opens, how are you going to open it? Let me tell you something else. When these historical artifacts are to be restored, some buildings around it need to be nationalized, as well as bad, unqualified structures. That's why we need a government decision. And so, based on all of this, it's going to be passed, and from now on, it's going to continue in this frame that we've already drawn. It's a very good decision, a job to do. But involuntary terms, some of our friends would say something like the government would go and seize them. Yeah, well, the truth is, Mr. Osman, a friend of ours who was mayor, I was surprised. ▪ Why does the government publicise the Great Mosque? He says, "Why does Hasan Pasha publicize Hanı?" Friends, I wonder what the state will do to nationalize the Great Mosque. Seriously, what's the government gonna do?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0168par0078	President, we're curious.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0162par0079	It's not publicizing, so I'm just saying, Mr. Osman. I mean, what's the state gonna do with Hasan Pasha Hani? What's he gonna do with the mosques?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0169par0080	You can do a mall!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0162par0081	Your municipalities will do that, don't worry, Freeboy.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0169par0082	The job you didn't do? You do a mall.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0162par0083	That's what your municipalities do.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0170par0084	You sell parcels.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0162par0085	Dear friends, the government has no interest in anyone's property. The government doesn't give a damn about the poor. There's already a state to address these victims. That's supposed to be all of us. We can't find this truth by saying words, but the important thing is that we can do the right thing in Sur. If we do this, we'll all be face-to-face. Rest assured, so we can follow up on this. Dear friends, it's clear what's to be done from now on. Look, I just want to say this very quickly because there's no time left. One, the losses of those who have been harmed need to be compensated. That's where the detection commission was set up. 86 of our friends work there and identify the damages. 4,000 people were tenants there, giving them rent benefits. Second: From now on, if the host is to be discussed -- which will be discussed -- it will be the crown of our heads, and it will be the most important substance we can't give up. The search for everyone's consent will be the most important item, I underline that. Then, according to this project, if someone said, "I want to do a job, I want to do my house." If he said, giving him credit without interest was also a commitment from our government. Then, in those areas, especially around the Great Mosque and Hasan Pasha, the street healthcare project on Gazi Street spread all over the street... and imagine the entire project that we've just shown on the street. It's our plan of action to make it that way again. The General Directorate of the Foundations is already doing its job, and will continue to do it from now on. At the same time, a local office will be established in that area; the NGOs, the leaders of the opinion and the dignitaries of Diyarbakır will surely be heard here. Museums for social purposes and cultural purposes, exhibition halls. There will be workshops for the development of traditional arts and crafts. A private library for Diyarbakır's Ali Emirî will again open a special museum for Diyarbakir hatt Hamid Aytaç and will be established in Diyarbakır's Celal Bellases music community to live up to the name of Celal Bellases. A wall especially worthy of your name will emerge. But, sadly, I must say, our municipalities in those areas do not have the best intentions. Many municipalities unfortunately support terrorists by digging holes in the southeast. They're getting their budgets from the government, but they're using almost all of their budgets as personnel expenses, and investment budgets are on zeroes.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0171par0094	Lies, lies, lies!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0162par0095	Do we have an extension? Let me give you an answer to the words of our friends who lied.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0172par0096	Mr. Özhaseki, please let's finish. We gave everyone the same amount of time and no additional time.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0173par0097	Mr. President, I'm about to start picking on you, and you'll get a say in this.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0162par0098	Sir, it's clear what we're going to do here as a government. In the coming days, I hope this will come to pass slowly. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0174par0101	Thank you very much, Mr. Özhaseki.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0175par0102	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0174par0103	Yes, Mr. Baydemir...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0175par0104	Mr. President, he certainly referred to a number of important issues in his speech, but in his speech, he also mentioned my name, not only by mentioning the name of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Mayor, but also by referring to the period of my term...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0174par0105	Mr. Baydemir, please, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0175par0106	I'd like a two-minute word on both the transcripts and the response.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0174par0107	Mr. Baydemir, I'll give you two minutes for bullying. Please, let's not afford another tease. The goal is to do good work for Diyarbakir at all times. That's supposed to be the common effort. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0175par0111	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I didn't show this map for business, General Board. I showed the 1939 aerial photo that the street tissue was intact even today. Mr. President, orator, even today, street tissue is being destroyed in the Surichi region, creating squares, dozers, main arteries. Look, there's a major attack on the spirit of the zoning plan for protection right now. The project you call a computation project is not yet available, the project has not been shared with anyone. Tear it down, turn it into a field, and then I'll create a project...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0176par0113	Who dug the pits, the pits?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0175par0114	I sentence you to death first, then if necessary, I will increase your age. This is another manifestation of your understanding.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0176par0115	Who dug the pits, and who filled them with holes?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0175par0116	Another thing, Mr. President, as you said: I support investment in Kurdish cities as a Turk.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0177par0117	I didn't say Kurdish cities.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0175par0118	I assure you, as a Kurd, I am also aware that the same attack on Diyarbakır City, Tyre, today...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0178par0119	Who started it, who started it?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0175par0120	... to Kayseri, Tokat...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0178par0121	There is no hole in Kayseri, and no one has dug a hole in Kayseri.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0175par0122	...I'll make every effort to make it impossible for Yozgat to apply to any city.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0178par0123	Mr. Orator, there are no holes in Kayseri.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0175par0124	It's not an urban transformation process, it's a process of destruction; it's not a process of neglect, it's a process of destruction. What you need to understand is that first, a proper public order was broken, and then this public order, when it broke down, the moats, the barricades, the opportunity, and this opportunity...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0178par0125	Why did you open the trenches?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0175par0126	...has uncovered the destruction of a city and the rebuilding of a city and its runt. I assure you, not vultures, not even python snakes, but the walls of Diyarbakir... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you won't be able to swallow a thousand years of civilization.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0179par0131	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0180par0132	Mr. President, I have something to say.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0181par0133	Mr. Purçu, you've just stepped in, stepped in, you've had depositions. We support the same thing for the Roma, and we support it.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0180par0134	Well, sir, Mr. Orator just said that good things will be done with urgent nationalization. But I want to correct something wrong with that. I want two minutes' promise.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0181par0135	Mr. Purchu, you know that's not the way to do it.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0180par0136	Please...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0181par0137	Look, there's no such thing. Or I won't hurt you, you know I will.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0180par0138	Then I'd like to make a statement...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0182par0139	Let him make a statement in one minute according to 60.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0181par0140	Okay, I'll give you my word on your position for a minute. By the way, I'm listening to Mr. Özhaseki. Here you go, Mr. Özhaseki.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0183par0143	Sir, I want to correct the expression here, especially in Kurdish cities.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0181par0144	Mr. Özhaseki, let's just finish this discussion. Please don't challenge a new taunt. I'll give you my word in two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0184par0148	Guys, I didn't have that phrase, and you're witnesses. If we open such a path, we will then open the way for division in 81 provinces, such as Laz cities, Circian cities, Kurdish cities, Turkish cities.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0185par0149	Diyarbakır is Kurdish, its history is Kurdish, its past and its future is Kurdish.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0184par0150	That's unfair. You can be a lot in one place, that's something else.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0185par0151	Don't make the bones of Cait Sitký.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0184par0152	But you'll never be able to call it that. Every corner of our home is ours, and every corner of that corner has the blood that flows there, we have the martyrs, we have the territory. (AS/TK) As our friends claim, it is not possible to define Diyarbakır as a Kurdish city in particular. Dear friends, why are our friends here? Why is the government destroying this place? Why is the government attacking this place? Why is this persecution going on here? Yeah, it's like the special forces of the Republic of Turkey, the security forces, they don't have a job, the soldier doesn't have a job, and there's a very quiet life there, everyone's happy in their own way, but let's go destroy it. Why don't the soldiers come to Kayseri, why don't the police come, why don't they go to Tokat, why don't they go to Samsun, and they'll have this fight there too?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0185par0154	You didn't let the terrorist nest!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0186par0155	There's no hole there, Mr. President. There's no hole there.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0187par0156	There are no terrorists!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0188par0157	But if the terrorists dig these pits in there, if your municipalities declare self-government, if they try to form another republic and rule inside, of course the Republic of Turkey will go and teach them a lesson and bury them in the pits, by God's leave. And I want to make that very clear. Please come back to us, as you've expressed here...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0189par0158	How will you describe the destruction in places where there are no moats?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0188par0159	And one day return to those men you call thegerilla, and say to them, "Don't dig the pits, put down your gun, and do not kill the poor man. Please speak to them one day. You say something here every day, you turn around, you slander the government of the Republic of Turkey, the security forces there, tell those terrorists something, say a sentence to the PKK people for God's sake.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0189par0162	Why do you burn the villages of Highova? Is there a ditch there too? Answer him!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0190par0163	What have you been doing in Tyre for a month and a half?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0188par0164	They're the ones who started all this, they're the ones who brought this disgrace, they're the ones who persecuted the Kurdish people there, they're the ones who did the worst.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0191par0166	Thank you, Mr. Özhaseki.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0192par0167	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0191par0168	Mr. Baydemir...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0192par0169	Mr. President, do I need to express myself? Mr. Hati's statements are clearly, clearly, taunting.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0191par0170	Is there anything wrong with your personality now?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0192par0171	Yes, yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0191par0172	What did he say?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0192par0173	He said it more than once, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0191par0174	No, what did he say? I may have missed it. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0192par0175	He said, "Fighting violence even once, clearly and clearly. "
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0193par0176	He might, what's it got to do with you?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0192par0177	We've resisted violence a million times. More than once, the City of Diyarbakir has supported terror, violence. I'm returning this to them.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0194par0178	Are you the mayor of Diyarbakır Metropolitan?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0192par0179	I've been mayor of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality for ten years, one dig of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, one shovel was not used for violence.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0195par0180	Mr. Baydemir, I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford any more bullying, and let's end this discussion.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0192par0183	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I once again say that if your purpose is to truly contribute to civilization as much as a marble, then once again, the political will of the people of Diyarbakır and Diyarbakır will open the doors of its heart to anyone who extends their hand with civilization, with decency, with discipline. I'm telling you very clearly. Look, you broke the public order first, according to the procedure, no desk, no negotiations, no Kurdish problems. You said, "No Kurdish problems." And you started the war.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0196par0186	Did the guns come out, the guns stopped?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0192par0187	After you started the war, you destroyed it with a tank, with a ball, without a woman, without a child, without a word, without a city, after you started it, you committed crimes against the human family, you committed crimes.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0197par0188	You're the one who did it.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0198par0189	Tell the truth, for God's sake, if you fear God, speak the truth and speak the truth.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0199par0190	Have you seen the area and you're talking?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0198par0191	I've seen it, I've seen it, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0200par0192	If you were the mayor, if you were the mayor of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Mayor, and this persecution had been done to the city where you were mayor, what would you do if you didn't rebel? If you remain silent as mayor of a city, then you betray that city.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0198par0193	It's a shame, it's a sin, I'm telling you, you haven't said a word to terrorists.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0201par0194	You're acting, you're acting!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0200par0195	Here we present this attitude today, so as not to betray our people, not to betray them.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0198par0196	It's a sin. It's a sin.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0200par0197	You can clear it with your votes today, but you can't stop being a prisoner in the face of history. Make sure you're a prisoner in the face of history, and you won't get away with it.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0202par0198	You're the ones who'll be condemned in the face of history.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0200par0199	Do you know whose dream this is? The Prime Minister of the period is today's President's dream.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0203par0200	For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0200par0201	How could the Ministry take over City Hall? What kind of ministry would seize city hall, what idea, what logic, what morality would that be?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0203par0202	If you tell us how the pits were dug, what the pits were dug with, and how they were dug, for God's sake, you know everything.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0200par0203	All of this is clear that your intention is not yet to serve, that your intention is to restrain, and that Diyarbakır will not open its door for restraint.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0204par0206	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0205par0207	Mr. Cakir...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0204par0208	Mr. Baydemir has made a statement saying that you have broken public order, that you have declared war, and that I want to speak according to 69.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0205par0209	Here you go, Mr. Cakir, and I'll give you two minutes. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll promise Mr. Ozcan if there's a chance.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0204par0213	Thank you. Mr. President, I'm going to keep saying it, and I'm going to keep saying it over and over again; a speech by Mr. Baydemir, by making a theater, by adjusting the tone of his voice, will never, ever prove his right here and to the floor.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0206par0216	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0204par0217	You may object. He'll continue to do what he's done before today and possibly in the future.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0207par0218	You do it, too.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0204par0219	What do you mean, you've broken public order?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0208par0220	You broke it.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0204par0221	This is an attempt against order and order. What he said between the lines, if you hadn't done so, you wouldn't have experienced a riot. He wants to make the attempt that exists in the east, in the southeast, in Diyarbakir to be his equal. This is a dangerous sentence, a dangerous approach, Mr. Baydemir. If you feel that you belong in the action there, if you feel that you're in the wrong, if you feel that you're in the wrong, if you feel that you're in the right place, then you're in a very different place. I think you need to get out of there and make it very clear here and eliminate this hoard in the minds of 550 people. Mr. Baydemir faces a serious paradox, a contradiction between the beginning and the end of all his speeches. It says: "Diyarbakir is a multilingual, multi-religious, multicultural city. " And thanks to you, today, that beautiful Diyarbakir is being removed from her multilingual, multi-cultural structure and forced to become one type of city. In fact, it's not ours, it's not 78 million; it's the only form, too much for the Kurds to even tolerate the differences. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0209par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0210par0226	Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0209par0227	After each speech, the AKP group's representatives, traditionally, are certainly disturbed and turn it into an insult, a taunt. Once again, he's already made a sufficient amount of abuse, referring to my address as "tiyatro. "
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0210par0228	Mr. Baydemir, come in. I'll give you two minutes, but let's finish this one, please.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0209par0231	Mr. President, with all due respect, I'm curious as to where this government and its members of the group are coming from, as long as they don't go off the agenda. Are you anti-art?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0211par0233	We are enemies of lies!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0209par0234	Politics is an art of rhetoric, politics is an art of service, politics is a matter of sincerity.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0212par0235	We're not here to watch the theater.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0209par0236	While you were closing the theaters, Osman Baydemir was setting up a city theater, city theater.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0213par0237	Where are we closed? Where are we closed?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0214par0238	Why don't you accept acting? They call it the "Tiyatrocu."
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0209par0239	While you were throwing the theaters out on the street, we were renovating art, like the walls of Diyarbakir, the cultural heritage.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0214par0240	Why do you run away from being complimented?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0209par0241	Here are the historical monuments that we gave up, which were confiscated by you, the house of Dengbej. You know what you're saying? The construction plan for protection was made by the city's municipality and is the constitution of this city, you say. Amenna, our common denominator. We say: "Come to this constitution for protection, and we will take care of it together." But you don't know this constitution, just as you constantly violate the existing Constitution and don't know it. And after a while it will lead to indecency, and after a while it will lead to fear of Allah, and after a while it will lead you to the graves.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0215par0242	Get over there, get over there!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0216par0243	You won't be able to answer either way!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0209par0244	Because it's a superstition war.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0215par0245	You're the ones who burned down the mosque.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0209par0246	This is the war that has been waged for the sake of power alone, and every citizen who has ever died is the victim of this war.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0217par0247	That's what we call theater!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0209par0248	And thou shalt not put thee with them in this world, nor in the next.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0218par0249	That's what we call theater!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0209par0250	With all due respect.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0219par0252	God damn the PKK!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0220par0253	Mr. Purchi, I promise you, according to 60....for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0221par0257	Thank you, Mr. President. For the first time in 2007 in Turkey -- if I don't remember correctly -- in Sulukule, the Roma neighborhood was given urgent nationalisation, with public interest. We've sued the matter, the court has decided it's of no public interest, and they've decided to stop the execution, the villas have been built without a verdict, we've sent the Roma, 5,000 people out of the city, I'm afraid. Most of them now live on in tents and drinking water from wells. Who's going to pay for this, Mr. President, for God's sake, I'm asking? Minister, right now, in Ankara, Yenimahalle, the Roma have been evicted from their property homes, Sapanca has been removed from various parts of Istanbul, so our urban transformation has turned into an urban disaster. What should the Roma do? Where should they live? Mr. Secretary, please answer us in this matter and we want an urgent action plan on this matter, so let's not forget the Roma. Should we be refugees, for God's sake? 55,000 buildings are being built. We want to be refugees too, the Roma want to be refugees now. We'll go to Greece, send us back, we want 55,000 dwellings, come on! Thank you, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0222par0262	Thank you. So the talks for the group are complete. It is now on behalf of the government that Mr. Fatma Güldemet, Minister of Environment and Urbanism, belongs to the Yellow Lady. Here you go, Mr. Yellow. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0223par0271	Mr. President, I'm here on behalf of the esteemed MPs, on the basis of the motion for the geneorization submitted by the HDP Group. I hereby salute your high council. In the beginning of my words, I remember all our martyrs with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude, to our heroic soldiers, to our policemen, to our guards, and to our citizens who died in terrorist attacks, to God's mercy, to their relatives, and to our nation. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have carefully followed the talks held in the House on matters of hasty publicisation and related matters. I listened to HDP Group's criticism and comments on the matter and the answers given to them. I believe both our AK PARTY group and our Vice President, Mr. Özhaseki, have been able to answer all questions that are relevant to the geneor of the right and the right examples. As Minister of Environment and Urbanism, I will continue to talk about our urban transformation project as well as our work in the region. I've looked into the alibi. I'm not going to rank the charges here one by one, but it's possible to sum up the gene, completely out of context, who and what it serves, an attempt to victimize citizens. Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MPs referred to it as the party of the AK PARTI (AA) policy based on construction-based policies, all are separated from knowledge, far from objectiveness, and more importantly, claims that do not contain justice are listed. Not to do, not to destroy, not to build, but to destroy, in other words, to expect something other than this will, which is so much more than suppressing, which would be inappropriate and wrong, and we're not waiting. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I don't think it's possible that if you're talking about building a building based on structure in the text, you're just saying building a building is missing, it's wrong and it's meaningless, but if you're referring to building a party based on construction and care, it's right, it's right and it's right. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Right, we're building, rebuilding, rebuilding, renovating Turkey from top to bottom. You're right if you're referring to the world's longest and largest bridges, documentaries and scientific research, tube passes, tunnels, airports we've built in every province, universities we've built in every province, schools we've built for our children to study in better environments, fast trains, business centers, living spaces and social utensils. With all this work, Turkey is reinforcing the entire region, one by one, building strategic investments in the values and historical fabric of our provinces. I'm not gonna waste your time telling you the details of all this. In any case, our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and other ministries, despite their attempts to block it, are carrying out their services and carrying out their duties to our nation in a noble manner. We make our historic tubes like Marmaray, Eurasia Tunnel, so that our people can go to work faster, return home more comfortable, and return to their families. And someone digs their tunnels under streets and houses and drives people out of their homes, burying our young saplings in these tunnels. We build buildings so our people can live in healthy, safe, parks and gardens and look to the future with confidence. And someone would tear down buildings, lay handmade bombs on them, wreck them, and darken the future of our people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We make our roads so that our trade can grow and the country can rise. Someone does it to camouflage the explosives they planted under it. We spend billions of dollars to protect our culture's branded beings, we restore them in the best possible way. And as one cannot perceive the spiritual value of this land, all civilization in the region burns, destroys, consumes. Despite all obstacles, we will work on building and renovating buildings that were destroyed in terrorist attacks and all unqualified areas. We carry on our work with stubbornness, with determination, with unwavering determination, and we will continue to carry on. We've been in the area with our special staff since the day the counterterrorism operations started. We're there with all our top bureaucrats. We're there, hand in hand, side by side, with our people. We were all there a thousand years ago, and we'll all be there in a thousand years. We've practically made our district managers in the area. We've moved our headquarters to the area. Our headquarters are there all the time. Not as officers, but as patriots, they're with our citizens. We will continue to be there until this is over, until the region is normalized, until peace and brotherhood come, and the nation is free from the treacherous terrorist organization. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We're in Sur, we're in Silvio, we're in Cizre. We're in Idil, we're in Surici, we're in Nusaybin. I say with great conviction that whether someone likes it or not, we will fight day and night to make this country grow, whether they like it or not, and we will continue to hope that our citizens will look forward to their future in peace and prosperity. I share this with you in front of our entire nation. Dear lawmakers are being asked about a minister, not knowing the ministry he serves, without good knowledge of his activities. If they want information, it's easy for them to get all the information they're looking for, as long as the intent is pure. Congressmans, we protect our heritage, we protect it. Our new goal is the ihya of Surici. The Diyarbakir Surici region is the common heritage of humanity. It's a city that's been in the transit zone of civilizations throughout history, with a spiritual smell. Surici, a treasure of rich historical and cultural tissue that carries the mark of all the civilizations he hosts, like a medal on his chest. This region is an urban site, on the list of world heritage. The transformation work in the region will not be carried out in any way against rules and rules, which is not possible. It is our ministry's goal to protect Surichi, to eliminate the unhealthy construction that threatens historical tissue in the field, to prioritize the historical and cultural value of the field. The Surici region has been declared an urban site in 1988 by the District Council for the Protection of the Diyarbakir Cultural Assets. A total of 1,142 structures have been registered in the area, primarily walls and horoscopes. Regarding Surici, I would like to bring your attention to this especially -- the decision taken by Diyarbakır Metropolitan Mayor and Diyarbakır Cultural Preservation Regional Council in 2012 was adopted to protect the development plan and again to protect the implementation plan for protection in the same year. I'll tell you the details of the decisions made at that time, but I have made a promise to those who had previously made it seem as if our government was doing a job of resension, algebra, and forced labor: the state is conducting the process that has existed from 1988 to now on. As claimed, it was taken from today to tomorrow, and there is no news of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality and Sur Municipality, and it is not as if their views were not received. In fact, everyone knows that very well. Why didn't the municipalities who claimed that we didn't get their views today, when the terrorist organization was digging holes in the area, setting traps with barricades, hand-made explosives, come out and say a word? What are you doing in my street, in my neighborhood, in my district? With the holes you've dug, with the improvised explosives you've rigged, you're referring to the lives and property of the citizens. Why didn't he say so? Today, I'm going to leave those of us who have the courage to build and say anything while we're doing it to prevent us from doing the work that we're going to do. To the conscientious evaluation of our citizens. Now, about what we're gonna do. With your mayors' signatures, there will certainly be no high-level construction in the Surici region, according to the protection plan for the protection of the mayors' signatures of the period. I've repeated it on many platforms, and I want to make it very clear here that there will be a very special study in Surici. There will never be an urban transformation in Tyre. The building heights will not cross the wall. The implementations of the Surici region will not only be in the way of depriving and renovating unqualified structures within the framework of this regeneration-oriented approach. In the first place, as Mr. Özhaseki has just stated, there will be a proper solution, especially in the areas with trade flows such as Gazi Street, with studies of street healthcare in line with the demands of our shop. Today, in Tyre, as stated earlier, the TOTOKI will build four, five - story buildings. I wonder why no one has said a word to the high - level buildings that were built in Mount 40, which are of spiritual value, which are based on legends, while the TOKI is not even there.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0224par0292	Mr. President, this is Mr. Secretary, people are walking around! Please warn me!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0223par0293	Reconstruction of monumental and civilian architecture is our main objective in the work here. In this study, the maintenance and repair of culturally valuable structures...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0225par0294	Mr. Secretary, please, just a moment... Congressmans, there's a speaker on the stand, Mr. Minister speaking, the government is making statements on the gene question for the government. Please stop the humming.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0226par0296	Whistling from there, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0227par0297	Whistling comes from the ranks of power, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0226par0298	We warned them, we told them, they don't take care of the minister.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0228par0299	Normal, they weren't listening to us just now, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0229par0300	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0230par0301	In this study, the maintenance and repair of culturally valuable structures will be maintained and protected by our Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Buildings that pose a risk to the safety of lives and property will be removed, burned and destroyed by terror. The new structures to be built in Surici will be in the form of habitats that fit local tissue and architectural properties. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been declared a risky area in 2012, at the request of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, some 187 hectares in the Surici region. In relation to the work planned to be done in the field, the decision on the development plan for protection has been adopted. It is our priority to protect both proprietary structures and to ensure harmony with the use and construction decisions brought into the development plan for protection. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, as for objections to urgent publicisation, the decision of the Statement of the Surici region is not the first decision made by the Council of Ministers for Surici. For example, in 2012, a decision was issued for the movers in the district of Yakutiye of Erzurum, which was declared a risky area, and a deal was reached for most of the area by negotiating in Yakutiye. The similar work will now be reached in Diyarbakir Surici, which will be agreed with the rightful owners to the extent required by implementation of the zoning plan for protection. Offers will be made as part of the project to apply to the rightful owners, and if they agree, the contract will be signed and the transactions will continue. I repeat: this procedure is conducted in similar ways in other applications. Similar practices in 3 neighborhoods have been made by Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, 703 owners have been given housing, and over 20 million publicisation costs have been paid. This decision was made primarily for the immediate creation of social donut areas, roads, green areas. We will never, ever victimize our citizens in our work together. As the ministry, as the government, we have no intention of disposing of the rights of our citizens. On the contrary, in our transformation practices, we will preserve the rights of our citizens. I'd like to make another point here. We have many citizens who live in buildings that are unlicensed and unregistered in Surici. We understand their concerns, their reservations. We're not going to victimize them either. If they want to, they'll be landlords, as if they're paying rent in a reserve, and if they want to, they'll get the price of their homes that terror has burned down. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been restored by our General Directorate of the Foundations, many of the monument structures throughout our country. The Armenian Sur Church in Diyarbakır is among the restored structures of the Armenian Catholic Church. In the future, cultural heritage protection and impotence are our most important goal. Within the same parcel are distorted, risky structures in the use of individuals, along with the works of the foundation. The executive decision is based on the property of the person's use here. In Surici, it is not possible to nationalize the foundation's works. On the contrary, studies have been launched to repair the damage done by the terrorist organization. Moreover, it is our duty, as a government that restores and restores the works of Diyarbakir as a government that sees the mosques, bridges, fountains, taverns, shrines, memories of our civilization as living memories. Mr. President, our work continues with the esteemed MPs, along with Diyarbakır. These cities are far behind the world standards with both the quality of structure and the areas of social donuts, as well as infrastructure. Due to the city's infrastructure inadequacies, we have begun to address the infrastructure problem of Silopi, which we have transferred from the Bank of Provinces to address the victims. That's the purpose of the hasty publicisation decision for the silopi. It is not to intervene in the right of the citizen's property but to ensure that the citizen lives in healthier and safer structures. Congressmans, I would like to state in particular that it is in the best interest of our citizens to be transformed under Law 6306. In this scope, rent assistance can be paid to citizens until they can settle in their new homes, some of the interest of the loan they will receive in the case of a citizen's need can be paid by the state, and the costs of new dwellings can be determined under construction costs and afford cheap housing. Again, loans for small-income dwellings may last for 20 years and without interest. It is requested to cancel the urgent publicisation decisions made for Sur and Silopi and to cancel the risky ad for the area for Silopi. In doing so, our citizens are prevented from owning a house; their ownership of a deed is prevented from playing in parks. To stop these services is to prevent our citizens from receiving rent benefits and other benefits. I truly believe our citizens will understand and be sensitive about this game. With these works, we aim to turn Surichi (Surichi) into a peaceful city, where the eyvans meet in conversation, and the courtyards are filled with children's voices, and local architecture is revealed. And We will entrust Mesudiye Medresesi, and the Turbage of Yellow Saltuk, and the Tekkesi, and the Bath of the Trench, and the Lion, and the Cherishmah of the Jewels, and the Church of the Keldani, and the mosques of Fatih Pasha, unto the generations to come. Not just for the people of Diyarbakir, but for all of us, the whole world, we will protect this place as a historical monument. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers don't want urban transformation, it's an application against the citizens. There's an opinion, and the truth is the opposite. In urban transformation studies, 105,171 buildings have thus far been identified as a risky structure in all 81 counties based on the demands of the rightful owners. The buildings have a total of 346,622 dwellings and businesses and have been transformed at the request of about 1.5 million citizens. All these urban transformation projects are the most concrete example of how our citizens' dreams became reality. Again, the motion for the geneorization also brought up wind power plants and hydropower plants. Electricity production in all countries around the world is provided at a certain rate from these sources. The use of that potential is crucial to the energy supply security of each country. In countries that import natural gas and oil like us, the use of this clean energy source is mandatory for environmentalists. With environmental measures to be taken, both wind power and hydropower plants will take their place in our development projects. Mr. President, I'd like to make a point here in particular. In some statements, you have destroyed them, and their dwellings have not been left behind. They have been accused. I want to read something over there. Terrorist leader Mustafa Karasu has made a statement saying that the contractor and workers entering the Surah are our targets. Don't let the Kurds who work there see themselves as civilians. You can't be a civilian like that. I'm a civilian; I'm unemployed, I'm working. It doesn't mean you can't work there. Whose habitat is threatened here, whose rights are being taken, it's very clear. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have never allowed terrorism, vicious political disputes to be an obstacle to Turkey, nor will we ever again. We're working our nights into the day to make our country one of the 10 most advanced countries in the world, in line with our 2023 goals. We've always talked about our services, our projects, our works, and hopefully that's how we'll talk from now on. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation, and thank you all.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0231par0319	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0230par0320	I just want to say a memo.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0231par0321	You can say it without a microphone, Mr. Secretary, to the reports. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0230par0323	Istanbul has seven hills, it is true.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0232par0324	Mr. President, we can't hear, but that's not how it works.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0233par0325	Yeah, positive discrimination...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0230par0326	Istanbul has seven hills, it is true. Only these 7 hills are in the historic peninsula.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0234par0327	Yes, the voice of positive discrimination has risen to women. I'll open it in a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0235par0330	Pine is not one of these hills. The seven hills of Istanbul are Topkapı, Cırklıtaş, Whiteıt, Fatih, Yavuzselim, Edirnekapı, and my husbandustafapaşa. Pine isn't in these things. I wanted to add that as an information note. I hope you use it from now on. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0234par0333	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0236par0334	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0234par0335	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0236par0336	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Secretary has accused us that because we have victimized citizens of this gene, that we actually give this gene, that the gene is far from the truth, and that, in fact, we are victimizing citizens. So, I'd like a say in the matter of teasing.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0234par0337	Here you go. I'll give you two minutes. Of course, you've given him the gene, but the Minister's right to naturally criticize the gene.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0237par0340	It's not a criticism, but it's a victim.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0234par0341	Here you go. Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0237par0345	Thank you, Mr. President. So no one knows who's the victim here. It's like, Mr. Secretary, he's taken on a lot of victims here. Indeed, who burned Tyre, who was it, who was it, who was it that pursued the ranta, and all that was there. So while we were making this clear, Mr. Secretary didn't answer any of our questions. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. Secretary, we've been saying that there are still funerals there for five months. And for a month and a half, the operation is over. You say, "Why don't you open up? Why don't people go and see their house burned down?" Why don't you let people out there have their kids' funerals? You want to flatten it, turn it into a field, and then you want to put the project that you've built into it. Can't you see it when there's a lot of stuff coming out of there, and people are picking up their stuff, women's beds, and blankets, and they're pouring out their bags?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0238par0349	Who made them, who?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0237par0350	Do you not see the women's demands? Do you not see how they shout? It's not like we don't know that those people's memories were destroyed there.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0239par0351	The terrorist wiped out...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0237par0352	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I, just today, have come from Tyre, and I know all the streets of Tyre, Mr. Secretary. What happened on those streets, people living there, one-on-one. Did you listen to the people who lived there? What are you going to attract the veterans of Veteran Street? Why didn't you explain who she was while you were waiting at the Research Hospital morgue while the women's funerals were being removed from the inside? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] You have to pay for all of this. We're going to ask them in every way legally, and we're going to keep asking them.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0240par0356	You answer! You will answer first! You will answer first for not calling the terrorist a terrorist! You will answer first!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0241par0357	Who will answer to whomever? Soon!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0237par0358	Know what you're talking about and then talk! We'll see who answers!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0240par0359	You'll see!
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0242par0360	What are you gonna do, kill him?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0243par0361	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0244par0362	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0243par0363	During his speech, he referred to the speech of Mr. Gürsel Tekin, who spoke on behalf of our group, but expressed some of the issues he expressed in his speech to him by twisting them and making a misunderstanding. We'd like to exercise our right to answer that question.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0244par0364	Now, Mr. Special, did he mention the name of your group or Gursel Tekin Bey?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0245par0365	No, my dear, there are seven hills of Istanbul. He said, "Where is it?"
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0243par0366	Sir, he repeated something that Mr. Gürsel mentioned in his speech and then twisted those statements, and there's no doubt that he meant Gürsel Bey.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0246par0367	Yeah, that's what we figured.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0247par0368	He just gave me information, just information.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0243par0369	We can also apply for the Minister's testimony if you wish.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0248par0370	Minister, is that correct? Applying for your testimony...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0249par0371	I didn't mention their names, I just shared information.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0248par0372	Yeah, he shared information. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll give you two minutes. Let's not afford another tease, please.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0250par0378	Dear President, it is clear that the Minister has listened very carefully, and I would like to thank him first. But there were some very important questions I asked, and none of those questions have the answers. I know Istanbul very well, and I know where the 7 hills are. So I asked you this question, and I want to ask you again, who did you donate 56 acres to, who did you give them to? Two -- Mr. Minister -- Mr. Minister, for what reason did Mr. Prime Minister hand over the large plot of land in Esen, or military territory to you, Mr. Prime Minister -- did he have any doubts about your ministry -- to a county municipality? Third, I've shown you a lot of Rant spaces and maps, and I'll send you the entire map as soon as possible. I'm asking you, please, against the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we're going to build 56 acres of mosques, so to speak, even our most sacred space, you're using ranta, it's a shame! You said mosque. Thank you. To whom have you opened the 56 acres near the mosque, who have you given them, despite the objections of your municipality, your municipality, your capital city, your Ministry of Culture? I asked that question, and I'm afraid I didn't get the answers. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0251par0384	Thank you. Mr. Baydemir...
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0252par0386	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Secretary has made it seem different from the fact that there was more than one time when he addressed me, referring to the operations of my mayoral term, but he also made a mockery of the fact that, in my time as mayor, municipal resources were being used to support violence. I demand word according to 69.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0251par0387	Mr. Baydemir, please -- I promise you for two minutes -- let's finish this discussion, because it's been a long time.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0252par0390	Mr. Secretary, respected lawmakers, once again, I say that in all the talks we have a common denominator, which is that we have a common denominator, which is that the protection plan is the constitution of the city of Sur, and we have a common denominator of the output of the development plan for protection. If this is the common denominator, and if you're sincere, if you're honest, right now the street tissue is collapsing, you need to stop the destruction of this street tissue once and for all. The second issue is not the ministry of a city -- in the context of the city's servant, in the context of slavery -- but the municipalities, elected by the free, free will of the people, are the mayors. This is the case in Istanbul, and that is the case in Diyarbakir. Who are you, by what authority, by what right, by excluding the elected mayors, the council, who own the zoning plan to protect them? The municipalities, which have soft bellies at every turn, the local governments, the weakest, the most vulnerable, the mayors you put in prison when you wish, the mayors you call to testify, they're supposedly supporting violence! For those who support violence in terms of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, they support violence in terms of our mayors and members of Parliament. If he says, he has offered a dig, a shovel, to the service of violence. If he says so, let the vote fall on them as much as the vote they received. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Whoever makes this claim and doesn't prove it, let the vote fall on you as much as the vote we get. That's enough! Enough! There's no such thing as slander. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] So, who's got the tools of violence? Ah, there's the gentlemen in charge here. The tanks are attached to them, the cannons are attached to them.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0253par0394	Who dug the pits?
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0252par0395	Mr. Secretary, those stale pepper sprays are up to you. You apply violence to society. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Every day, every day, you commit violence to the people. Therefore, there is no solution for this country except to stop violence and once again return to human ground, moral ground, and political resolution. No one has ever built good in history by force, by violence.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0254par0398	Your time is up, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0252par0399	By God, and you will not be able to build a solution by force.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit03spe0254par0404	Members of parliament, talks have been completed on whether or not the motion to ask for a motion on Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Mr. Fatma Güldemet Sarı, will be taken into consideration. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes on whether or not the motion to be brought up. All those who have agreed to the motion for the motion to be brought up... those who have refused... the motion for the gene is not accepted. I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit04spe0254par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-04-18sit05spe0254par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion, I'll have it read and put to your votes. At a meeting Monday (18/4/2016), the General Assembly's 18/4/2016 meeting on Monday (11/7) primary Gensoru Proposition 19/4/2016 (11/8) was deemed appropriate for the General Assembly's approval Thursday (21/4/2016). Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President I'd like to submit the counsel board proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Members of parliament, we have reached the end of today's talks as the meeting schedule of the motions for the session has been rescheduled according to the decision. Under the decision taken, (11/7) it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (April 19th 2016) to discuss other tasks from the commissions, in order to discuss whether or not the primary Gensoru Admissions should be taken into consideration. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
