tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Mahmut Toğrul, a member of the Gaziantep MP who asked for a comment on the unreachable funerals. Mr. Toğrül, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0002par0018	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the workers of the beloved General Assembly, I salute you all. Honourable MPs have instructed Muslim warriors to bury the remains of the pagans killed in the Battle of Badr and not disrespect them, and this instruction has been carried out. Again, in an incident, God's Messenger forbids the torture of the funeral. Dear lawmakers, since 16 August, there has been almost a torture on the public by curfews that have not received from any law, internal and external law. Every day, young people, children, women, old people are killed. Not only that, these curfews have become tortures over funerals. Look, the 11 children's mother, Taybet İnan, was kept in the street for seven days after she was killed. His wife said he was still alive and handed him the rope, but he couldn't hold the rope, and then his brother-in-law wanted to intervene in the funeral that had been held for days. Unfortunately, his in-law, Yusuf İnan, was also murdered in the same way. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's not just that. The funerals of young people who had been slaughtered in Tyre were only recently received after weeks of hunger strikes by their families. Dear lawmakers, in the last month alone, the AKP government has reached a point where they have passed two forensic laws, both related to the removal of funerals. In the first place, he gave the authority that had previously been in the municipalities to govern the property, but in the second time, he passed a law that went further and further: "If the state order of the body can be broken during surrender or burials or is judged by the management of social events or criminal property, the bodies will be delivered directly by the management of the property to be buried," he says. I mean, everyone who lives here in the Kurdistan knows that no matter what you do, even in your most innocent behavior, crime can be charged, terror can be claimed. Therefore, they clearly want to say: "We will not have your funerals buried in you. When your funerals are buried, we don't go over and give you a place to read a Fatiha. Dear friends did not give the funerals in Şırnak, the funeral of Taybet İnan's mother, even though her daughter was present there, even though she wanted to receive her mother's funeral, and they missed the funerals from the families. They kidnapped four of them to Cizre, Taybet İnan and Yusuf İnan. My dear friends, do you know how the kidnapped funerals were buried? Those who claim to have faith in Islam were buried in the same place four funerals in a row, said only one of their families could attend. We still don't know where the funerals of Taybet İnan and Yusuf İnan were buried or where they were buried by our municipality or by our deputies there. Dear friends, the funerals are clearly being massacred again, and the Kurdish people are being punished over the funerals. This is a situation in which there is no human, moral, and no place in any war. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear friends, even when the Prophet has allowed funerals to be taken in the war, the AKP government unfortunately does not allow funerals to be taken, a second torture is being inflicted on Kurdish people through funerals. I remind you that your account must be asked, all of you, with respect.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0003par0028	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu who wants to speak about the problems of the province of Bursa. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Kayishoglu, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0004par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I know everyone loves the city they live in and wants to do something for the city they love. And the scholarship is a special city for us. Unfortunately, today we are witnesses to understandings that work not for the city but for himself, for his party. Yesterday, Mr. Kusoglu expressed how he thought four hundred years later in the works of the architect Sinan. Our city, a city with a date of nine thousand years, was a city of madrasa, a capital city of Ottomans. We learn from the women's books that he witnessed the unemployment, poverty riots, roadblocks, kidnappings of children. When it was occupied in 1920, tears flooded in the assembly, and a black veil was covered, not pushi, but a black cover, until the Grand Assembly was freed from the occupation, and it remained on the council stand until 1922. He witnessed the opening of three major factories in the Ataturk period, the IPEKISTIs in 1925, Merinos in 1938, and the Gemlik Sunzipek Factory in 1938. So, how's Bursa doing today? The high-speed train was laid down in 2012, supposed to be finished in 2016, but its foundations rotted. The airport of the 4th largest city is not run properly. You were going to make the nation Davos, you were going to create chaos, the confusion of authority is still going on. Traffic jams every day to deter the Bursians. In order to please three or five people, you've transferred resources to the Helitaksi, but because you haven't renovated the cars, there are millions of transportation shortages every day. There's a heavy migration due to unemployment in the mountain districts. And ye sold all the goods, and all the property, and all the dwellings of the peasants, with the law of the city. You did not participate in the urban transformation, and people, especially the tenants, are having difficulties. You can be proud, you've got TOKI, even seen from space, and you've created victims of urban transformation because of these TOKI. The Gebze-Orhangazi-Izmir Highway Project has been constantly changed and our citizens have been victimised by publicization. Since Gemlik and Trilye-type olives are not supported, olivery is ending, and it's opening up. You couldn't solve the dense air pollution in Inegöl. The world - famous walls of Iznik have not been identified and have been abandoned to ordinaryness while becoming a tourist centre. He receives about 60,000 migrations each year and does not offer appropriate infrastructure, health, education services. The fertile plains of Burma, especially Karacabey, are being sacrificed to industrial areas and highways with the wrong projects. Uncontrollably, the industry has turned into the city of Bursa power plants, and it has five power plants in large and small, and there are still things to be opened, so it will not snow Uludağ. Your environmental massacres in Bursa are relentless. Look, it's the bees that died in Cargill, where you passed the special law. They're expressed by weights, hundreds of pounds. These bees are dying out there, and these syrups, they're people who drink what they make in that Cargill factory, people. The clay of the marble and stone furnaces is the most important drinking water dam in the region, and the phoseptics of the villages in the region flow. In Yenişehir, there is still no irrigation at the Bosphorus Dam, and the fish are dying in Kassu. Mustafakemalpaşa is waiting to be mined in Kestelek. It's a spa city, but the thermal beds aren't being assessed. And from an administrative standpoint, Bursa, unfortunately, is full of wannabes of palaces. The Mudanya Beach Project was launched by the Metropolitan Municipality, but it wasn't finished, people were deprived of the beach. After winning the Pier CHP, which has been in Mudanya Municipality since 1955, he was given to the Grand City with catakulli. Your president blocked the soup given to the students by the People's Democratic Party (CHP) City of Lotus, and took the Fethiye Cultural Centre. Your County National Education Director did not extradite the winners of the cases by disregarding the law. I say now that I will not lay a black veil here under the occupation of a dictatorial understanding, but if we don't die one day under these fascist practices of yours in the bombs that explode somewhere, if we don't rot in the dungeons with your plots, I will lay a white veil on this council stand when Bursa gets rid of you. Thank you. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0005par0044	Thank you, Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu. The third out-of-date statement belongs to Mr. Sami Çakır. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Cakir, you have five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0006par0050	Dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book promise to express my feelings for Sezai Karakoch, one of our living masters. I hereby salute the General Assembly. In our culture, it is a prerequisite for our dead to be blessed, but it will have a different meaning to share the beauty of our living values and masters' health, to be remembered, to be reminded, to honor them and to share the beauty of their struggle for life. Of course, it's impossible to fit a person like Sezai Karakoc in five minutes, but I'm hoping that for five minutes, he'll be able to open a window to the light from her. Sezai Karakoc is a poet, writer, thinker and politician. Even though the events of his life, his time, his culture of resistance, his resurrection, his culture, his spirit, were always at the forefront of his individual personality. He's one of our rare thinkers who doesn't like visual, vanity and glory, who can survive the solitude and isolation of his closeness between our people and his pen. In all his life, his choice to choose to live modestly and to stay behind the scenes is that he is a self-absorbed Anatolian person who will continue to impress future generations, but is far from arrogant. You can catch his calm in case he finds the pigeons he lost at dawn in the afternoon. Sezai is a very productive pen. In him, it was left to our desire to catch the ever-refreshing rose buds, the children who are ready to grow, and the sadre cures. Having a line on the road map of ancient civilization, he spent his childhood in the region where he was born. Ergani, the Mine and the Tigris became his dough and water. His primary school, Ergani, and his secondary school, Maras, attended the high school in Gaziantep. He loved philosophy. His father wished he was a theologian, but he read political information. He served in the IRS. He traveled within the scope of his duties as inspector and income controller, recognizing the place and the people. After 1973, he was not officially employed. In 2006, the Ministry of Culture was awarded the Special Prize. He didn't take the money part of the reward, he wanted to spend it on art. He is a poet, a conquistador, a literary author, and has a unique place in these areas. His poem is metaphysical, but he did it in the language of modern poetry. He's a person who manages to capture the physical by using the bloodline. And as he spake to the West from the mouth of the seventh son, saying yes to change, and speaking to the West of his understanding, which had been changed in the poetry of the tale, saying yes to change; You have one but great power: My bones will be changed, dust and dust, maybe. But you can feel clearly in the expressions of my spirit that will not change. The idea of a resurrection is to re-establish a relationship with human beings, possessions, time, space, and creators in a way that suits the purpose of existence. Many of his memories can be mentioned, but it would be enough to remind him that Mona Roza, written in the 1950s, ran hand-to-hand in the 1960s, in the 1970s, in the 1970s, by photocopy. We said, "Sir, we said, we said, we said, "Hikmet," we said. I'd like to share with you a bundle of wisdom from the poet's dedicated words of time: ▪ What news of birds in your country There's a spring rising from the graves What's wrong with the hangman of love if he's a lover? There's more than nothing and there's more to it than nothing. It's not always my fault. There's always an evil eye burning me. There are lines to sing that song Don't say fate. There's a destiny above destiny. Whatever they do, there's a decision coming from the empty skies. If the sun goes down, there's an architect who can fix the night. If I'm burned, there's a fort made of ashes. There's a growing victory over defeat. You have the key to unlocking secrets. There's a vein in his chest that calls back his exile. There's a tree in your heart called mercy that I don't give up on you. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0007par0080	Thank you, Mr. Cakir. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a promise to the MPs who entered the system and to the members of the group, respectively. Now, I promise Mr. Oktay Vural, Deputy Director of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0008par0086	Thank you. We ask for Allah's mercy to Mr. Mustafa Kokok, the chairman of the Coach Holding Board, who has contributed greatly to Turkey's competitiveness and development. My condolences to the coach family, Coach Holding employees and our nation. Dear lawmakers, of course, the events of Turkey's east and southeast have really helped our citizens there. Citizens from Sur district of Diyarbakır have expressed that they have been under the pressure and threat of the terrorist organization for a long time and that the security guards want to be connected to life as soon as they have cleared the area of terrorists and ensured peace and security. We wish our anti-terrorism soldiers, police and rangers all the best in the struggle to restore peace and security to our citizens in the region. Turkey is the home of all of us. There is no Kurdistan in Turkey, and Turkey does not have a matter of Kurdistan. Our country is one, our nation is one, our state one, our name one, our pain one. Their attempts to divide, divide, divide our country, our nation, and our state will not succeed. Imperialism and its extensions have failed in history, and they will not succeed in the future. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0009par0092	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0010par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Brigadier General Ali Sahin of Turkutlu district of Manisa Province of Turkey was killed yesterday in the explosion of an improvised explosive device set up by terrorists in Sur district of Diyarbakır province. First of all, I offer my condolences to all our nation, including God's mercy, family and family, who have died for the unity and unity of our martyr Ali Şahin and the Turkish nation. Those who make mothers cry today are not going to cry yesterday. While the PKK was cutting roads, collecting tributes, trying to dominate cities, setting up bomb traps on roads, setting up courts and extortion units, we warned. We explained that the PKK had collected terrorists, stored weapons and ammunition, that the terrorist organization had never left weapons and would not give up. At the same time, reports from similar news reports and government intelligence reports and reports from officials to those in charge have also been reflected in all widespread media. However, the Justice and Development Party had dreams of picking flowers, picnics in the mountains -- the power of the Justice and Development Party -- which it had a hard time putting in its name -- but is often called a solution. He thought if he made a deal with the terrorist organization, if he gave them what they wanted, he'd lay down his weapons, and he wanted our nation to think so. Then we learned that the AKP was only trying to distract our nation with these dreams, and the government knew all of the PKK's activities. The President confessed, Mr. Prime Minister said that the PKK had piled up for two years, that we knew everything. The PKK has not left weapons, nor has the terrorist gone out of bounds, nor has the terror ended. Now, of course, I would like to ask the power again: What did you discuss in Oslo, in Habur, in Dolmabahçe, and what did you promise? What did you imagine when you were hoping at the Habur Border Gate? I'm really curious, have you taken the hemlock poison? You know, the answer is that, in the process of your commitment to drink hemlock poison for your sake, unfortunately, our children drink the testimony, but still the martyr families... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0011par0101	I'll give you an extension. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0010par0103	Still, despite all that has happened, his family of martyrs says with great dignity, thanks to the country. With those thoughts, I end my promises, thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0011par0105	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0012par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. The sudden death of Mr. Mustafa Kokot, head of Turkey's economy and its locomotive, Coach Holdings Board of Directors, has been a tragic loss to our country, the business and the working world. We offer our condolences to the coach family and to our nation on behalf of the Republican People's Party Grand National Assembly Group of Turkey. Mr. President, however, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the heart of this country, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the brain of this country, and it is also a matter that should be highlighted, given what is happening in Turkey or what is happening in the region, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey's back, and the members of the Assembly who have created this Assembly in all matters that concern our nation's back closely, and that the solutions to these developments can not be achieved anywhere other than this address, in accordance with the founding of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. President, our parliamentary democratic system is based on legislation, governance, judicial trilogy, and none of these forces have any role in gaining superiority over each other in our constitution, and they do their duty in a co-direction. The legislature, which we're in, the Turkish Grand National Assembly, is a factory that only comes from the ruling party or produces laws and proposals from the government, I'm afraid. The last thing that happened in the country was that lawmakers had information, and as a member of parliament who served under the roof of this great Assembly, it personally hurt me. I know you're asking about events in the east and southeast, and what's going on in the press today, about reports that Russian troops have been deployed on our border, all the members of parliament have been calling from the electoral districts, and what's going on? No more status for Turkey's Grand National Assembly. I demand that your government inform you immediately, specifically, whether or not Russian troops are massing on the border in the Kamishli region. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0013par0114	Mr. Cakir, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0014par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, ask for God's mercy to Mustafa Kokok, one of Turkey's most important businessmen, who passed away today, to his parents, his loved ones, and his relatives. And yesterday, we had a martyr. Unfortunately, I ask for mercy from our martyrs, the Lord of Genab. I pray for immediate healing for our wounded. We wish, we hope, and we pray that we will no longer have martyrs, our martyrs will not come. Dear lawmakers, dear friends, let's call it the process of dissolution, whether we call it the period of incompatibility, or the process of democratisation, it's not really important. In a country, if there's a problem in the society we live in, if it's a fundamental problem, especially if it has a centuries-old background, it's important not to be indifferent to it and even place your hand, or even your body under the stone. In this sense, we started this process in 2013, and it's true, and it's true, very consistent after that, in a very primitive and principled way, so that people don't shed blood, people don't die, our martyrs don't come, with some effort to contribute to this country's unity and unity, to its presence, to its peace, to its safety, but today, as we discussed earlier today, the developments in the Middle East, but mostly in Syria, with a new situation that has been created, inspired by others, but unfortunately, the table has been overthrown by others. Finally, from July, for almost six months now, no one in our district will be pleased with it, so naturally I say children should not die, civilians should not die, people shouldn't bleed, no one's nose should bleed. Our dear teacher expressed it here yesterday, and I'd like to repeat the same statement. We don't want to demonize him, even if he's a terrorist, but if he's a terrorist, he should be punished for his crime, and the way to do that is to fight terrorism. Fighting terrorism is a hard job for everyone to know and know. When the special situation of the region comes to light, the period of curfews has been extended as a result of the extraordinary care of civilians but a civilian's nose not to bleed. What I'm trying to say is, there's no doubt that behind all this effort... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...our peace, our peace, our safety, but more importantly, there is an effort to our unity and our unity, and that's how I want it to be.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0015par0123	Shall we give it time, Mr. Cakir?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0014par0124	Let me just finish my sentence, Mr. President. In that respect, I hope that everyone in our country will do their part as soon as possible, and the terrorist organization will withdraw, especially the parties with the weight of the HDP will make the necessary warnings in the region, the pits, the ditchs will be closed, and then, hopefully, peace and peace will come to our country, and once again, the climate of brotherhood will prevail. I insist that this is not something we didn't do. We, as a nation, are a nation that has put together thousands of years of practice, and so we can't be smaller -- we can't be more divided by borrowing this from the talks of yesterday -- we can't be more divided. In that respect, we need unity and unity. Each of us has to make a contribution to this. I salute your high council. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0016par0129	Thank you, Mr. Cakir. Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0017par0132	Mr. President, of course, we're going through a very difficult process as a country, a very scorching process. Adeta, the entire history of the region has been redesigned, and the democratic future of the people is being renegotiated on tables, we're all observing, and we're in it. However, in this historic process, unfortunately, we can't raise any agenda in this government or in this Parliament, for its work to bring peace within the country to an immediate end, as well as in the whole Middle East to build a common future where people can live together. As historical moments pass before us, we are quickly drifting behind history into a position that is drifting into chaos in the vortex. In such a burning process, I'm also following the debates here on the solution process, the most important work of the last 40 years of Turkish politics, to free us from this historic vortex. For two and a half years, I don't really consider the value of a process that saves the lives of thousands of young people in this country to be in good faith in any way, which condemns the process of solutions, rather than the ones that we feel to our bones these days, to link the problems we face with the solution process. That's where I said it yesterday, and that's what I'm saying today. We want to thank the politicians for their contributions and efforts in the process of resolving even the politicians we say we've made, that we've knocked them out on the stand, that we've been pushing them on the ground, that they're insisting on very wrong policies today. If even a young man's life has been saved, then a more honorable, more valuable job has been accomplished than any political work that has been done. If only that process hadn't been broken, if that table hadn't fallen down today, and the funerals hadn't happened all over the country, and the fires hadn't fallen on all over the country, and the mother of Kurd, Turk, didn't have to cry every day, but unfortunately, she would have learned lessons that would have made the importance... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0018par0137	We're giving you an extension, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0017par0138	I regret to point out here that a mind that condemned good things that had been done at that time was tried to dominate Parliament, where we would discuss a way out with a common mind by taking the necessary lessons. I want to say that all of our fellow lawmakers -- regardless of the political party's distinction -- have to be alert about the perception that they're trying to make, and that they need to be judged by taking lessons from the past, based on the importance of the solution process. Dear President, there is talk of curfews in Kurdish provinces all over the world. The European Parliament discussed the agenda for more than 12 hours yesterday. The European Court of Human Rights makes every day measures on the rights of the wounded. In a report published by Amnesty International... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...indicating the precipice of the situation in the Kurdish provinces. In such an environment, I consider it unfortunate that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey still does not have a single day on the agenda of this issue, not a full day on the agenda, not looking for an exit. I would like to repeat my call to Parliament on how we can make constructive efforts to return to lasting peace, according to the framework I just stated. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0019par0145	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Congressmans, Deputy Chairman of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Engin Altay/ there is a request from any government official to inform Russian troops in the Kamişlı region to build a stockpile. I demand that this request be delivered to the government's authorities by the members of the Justice and Development Party group. There was a minister here just now, but he's not here right now. So in time, if any official minister shows up, I'll request a statement to inform him. Now, I suggest we continue to run the clock.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0020par0148	Mr. President, I'd like to express two sentences just to get it to the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0019par0149	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0020par0150	We've just been pressured by time for the burning of the process and the importance of the solution process, and I can't express it. We, the People's Democratic Party, would like to express our regret for the sudden loss of a heart attack by a valued businessman, Mustafa Kokop. We wish to offer him God's mercy and our condolences to his family, to his relatives, and to all the businesses.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0019par0151	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. As the Court, we extend our condolences to Mustafa Kokom, who died today, to God's mercy, to his relatives and to his family. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the system, respectively, according to Article 60 of the Civil Code. Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0021par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. We have a major energy problem, and it needs to be fixed. The energy we should prefer here should be renewable and usable, clean energy. But we also have to strongly oppose the destruction of the forests of our country, its plateaus, its barracks, its meadows, and its farmlands, so that we can get renewable, its clean energy. In particular, right now, we are witnessing forest areas and farmlands in the Izmir region, on the peninsula, on the Karaburun, on the Fountain, on the Urla and on the Segihisar region, and on the cutting off of the forests. In the village of Ovacık, of Urla, forest areas are being plundered and cut off because there will be RESEs in the village of Ovacık. And we see that they've been given to a company that's on the side again, they've been handed over to the Sandzak Group, and they've been working on how the Sandzak Group cuts through the forest, cutting through the forest, planting wind energy roses there without a CED report. I'm inviting the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism to take office, and I demand that the CED report not allow the destruction of forest areas and farmland. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0022par0162	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0023par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, because banks are closed in our districts and districts where curfew has been declared, students have not been able to make their pre-registers to the University Placement Exam because the schools are closed due to the lack of internet access. Records ended yesterday. In accordance with Article 42 of our Constitution, the right to access and education of students in the region has been blocked on this occasion. I'm asking the Ministry of National Education and the authorities: I request that the measures and measures necessary to prevent our students from being victims in the area of the curfew be extended to prevent the loss of rights or accepted as a residence application. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0024par0167	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0025par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. Because of the economic conditions in which Niğde was involved, one of the major and fundamental institutions of Niğde was involved, he went to work for the benefit of workers. This organization is very important to Niğde. I wish the government would solve the problems of this organization, and I wish for support. But besides, 126 of our workers have been thrown out on the street. In the winter's conditions, in this case, I would like to ask that the victims of our workers be relieved, that no new workers be removed, that other textile companies be supported in this context in Niğde. Because in Niğde, industry is limited, and it is important for the development of such institutions. Our workers are victims. Our union president is watching us. In this regard, I wish the support needed to be overcome by both workers and employers.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0024par0171	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0026par0173	Mr. President, first of all, I express my condolences on the death of Mustafa Koç. My condolences to his family. 1) In the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the Prime Minister has been given the authority to grant mining licenses. When will the Department of Energy get this back? 2) The construction of the Marine-Cyclical double road has long been under way, endangering traffic. When and when will the construction of this road be completed? 3) The construction of the Seaworks Road has been under way for thirteen years, and daily transportation is difficult. When and when will this road be completed? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0027par0179	Mr. Tuncer...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0028par0181	Mr. President, I'd like to extend my condolences to the businessman Mustafa Kokot. In May 2013, the New Cheltek Lineite Company, located in Amasya Merzifon, where 300 people worked, was handed over to Soma Holdings in exchange for rejection. After taking over, Soma Holdings began working to build a thermal plant for the New Cheltek Coal Company, but the conscious opposition of the people of Suluova and Merzifon has so far failed. The Soma Holdings, which failed to establish a thermal power plant for the new Çeltek Liniyet Corporation, has now announced that 300 workers, workers, trade unions, and families who work in New Celtek, would be expelled from the stove to the stove in Soma, although they did not want to. Although the workers do not want it, it cannot be explained whether they should be sent from Merzifon to Soma, not with conscience, morality, or the law, to separate the workers from their family on this winter's day or to separate them from their children. The work that is done is an act of cruelty, and I demand that it be given up.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0027par0183	Mr. Responsor...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0029par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Mustafa Koco, I wish you God's mercy, my condolences to your relatives. According to the latest information we have received, it will be rented for 20 years by Rumeleli Lantern of the 17th century in Sarıyer, the Castle of Genoa, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. He will be able to make the tender at the 46-acre Castle, where the Agency of Restorations has decided to restore it. He will be able to build tenants, restaurants, cafeterias, museums, libraries, art centers and exhibition halls. We ask: What is the purpose here, to open a new business? Is there going to be a pro-revention -- a relay and resuscitation that protects the historical fabric of all semesters? Because earlier examples are bad examples. It was compared to Sponge Bob, a cartoon hero after the restoration of the Chilean Fortress, dating back to the 13th century. Due to bad examples, such as this or Tekfur Palace, we find the restoration of Turkey to be substantially problematic. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0030par0190	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0031par0192	My condolences to Mustafa Kokom, who died today, to God's mercy and to the family of Coach. From Samsun, the poor report: June 7th, the 3,000rd, which was distributed before the November 1st election, even though it did not need it. 500 calories, high sulfur, high pollution, a fact given to citizens by high coals of stone. Seven thousand and eight of these coals at higher prices than the AKP's followers. We know it's being auctioned out for 2,000 calories of coal. The citizen who called me from Samsun's Wednesday district says he burned half the coal that was given during the election and threw it away because he couldn't burn half of it. Since he has no fuel to burn at the moment, we can't give coal to the private administration, as the authorities say. We ask that the social government help our hungry, open, needy people in the months of power, not in the elections, but in the months of need, and not negative discrimination.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0032par0196	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0033par0198	During this week's first session, İzmir MP Necip Tetovo praised and praised Ankara's mayor for a visual presentation he had seen, and gave a speech against the city of İzmir. I assume that the traffic problem in Ankara today has not been visual for him, but has brought true, true, true teaching. The fact that the Ankara Mayor was working, unable to build a subway for more than ten years, ultimately had to pull his hand and get help from the Ministry. I think we all need to think about what it means not to act on the facts instead of comparing them to the fact that it's natural to know that the resources of the municipalities that have put their backs to power will be wider, that they're not serving against it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0032par0200	Mr. Starsniper...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0034par0202	Mr. President, members of parliament, 1,026 acres of land handed over to Saruhanlı Municipality of Büçükbelen along with the Metropolitan Law in Saruhanlı district of Manisa Province have been released under a decision made at the last city council meeting held on January 7, 2016. This land is located in Bintepes and is part of the first-class area. It is clear that only large capital can be bought, not by the people of Bünbelen, whose bread comes out of the olives, as soon as the Saruhan municipality combines small parcels into one deed. I salute the great and great people, and I will be with them until the end of yesterday's righteous resistance to prevent them from selling this land. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0032par0204	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0035par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a tough job being a lawyer, especially a human rights lawyer. The Day of Lawyers at Risk on January 24th is dedicated to the lawyers at Honduras this year. From 2010 to15, 91 Honduran lawyers were killed there. It's a day where every year there are actions, especially to draw attention to the dangers experienced by lawyers. In the wake of the Ankara massacre, only 19 of the hundreds of lawyers who acted in the İstanbul Courthouse were sued. Now, our colleagues, we were all at the courthouse. They want the same cases to be brought to them if possible. I respectfully salute my colleagues, including all human rights advocates, and once again draw attention to January 24th.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0036par0210	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0037par0212	Thank you, Mr. President. Our workers who have fought in union because they worked under the hunger line at the SCA SCA Star Country Factory have been resisting the pressure of the employer for a long time, but unfortunately, they have been left alone and unresolved by the ruling party, Kobaeli MPs and the government. On behalf of many of our workers, such as these, I ask the AKP and the government: Will you continue to represent the capital? You're going to let your bosses work and work for you? Do you plan to look after our fellow workers who struggle with their labor and bread? And as lawmakers from the AKP, is it nice to remember Sezai Karakovic on his birthday, but -- like Sezai Karakoc, do you intend to remember and visit these workers? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0038par0215	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0039par0217	Mr. President, thank you. Bandırma State Hospital also serves patients from the surrounding districts and provinces. Citizens of Çanakkale Biga, Karacabey, Gönen, Erdek, Manyas have received health care from the State Hospital from time to time. In these conditions, physical space shortages have arisen at Bandirma State Hospital. In addition, we know that the number of doctors and other medical staff is not enough. I'd like to bring you to the attention of the Minister of Health: The Bandırma State Hospital needs an additional building immediately. Again, he needs the support of doctors and other medical staff. It is reported that the hospital is trying to serve the patient who lies above capacity. Augmenting the hospital's physical facilities will allow our patients to receive better health care. Hospital officials are making statements as well. I'm waiting for the proper work to be done on this matter, and I'd like to ask the Minister to do what is necessary.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0038par0219	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0040par0221	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to talk about the pressure of a lady headwoman in Aydın, the Mayor of the Conqueror Neighborhood. It's another lady, the mayor of Aydın Metropolitan. The Fatih neighbourhood has one of Turkey's most modern closed market sites, and as a marketplace, the municipality's initiative is not used, it is used as thousands of tons of coal storage. He's hurting the neighborhood, the neighborhood -- dust, dirt, etcetera -- and he's fighting for the will of the neighborhood to keep this place from being used as a coal warehouse. At this point, the mayor of Aydın Metropolitan City is beginning to pressure our headman on the marketplace he wants to use as this coal warehouse. A lady, a lady, a lady pressuring the chief. It cuts off the water of the neighborhood's administration, makes it worth the debt. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As a result, members of the Republican People's Party Group must monitor this pressure.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0041par0225	Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0042par0227	Mr. President, my condolences to the Coach family. We're having cold winter days, we've got a lot of kids living on the streets. They're alone in hunger and health problems, and they're desperate and left to die. Many children live on the street in Balıkesir Province. What's the total number of our children across the country? What measures does the government intend to take regarding nutrition, housing, and health problems? In particular, what did the government do about their winter clothes? Is he planning on handing out winter clothes? Is there a child being treated right now? Who pays for the treatment? How many kids died in a shootout in the southeast? Is there a child on the street who's lost his life, what's the number? In particular, what measures does the government take for young people, children who are over 18 years old, who have been evicted from their homes?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0041par0229	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0043par0231	And I pray for God's mercy on the Coach family. The Department of Agriculture has announced that we have been detected in our country as a type A-spangled virus that has never been seen before. For this reason, Kashan and Havsa, particularly in Edirne Province, have been shut down, even though live animal markets are in the area. We'd like to know and learn what measures are being taken other than closing live animal markets. We want to know if the Ministry has enough vaccines for this virus. We want to know how the manufacturers are going to get this vaccine, how the producers are going to get it, if they're going to get rid of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0044par0234	Mr. Akkaya...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0045par0236	Mr. President, as a man who's been organizing the struggle for labour for many years, I ask God's mercy on Mustafa Kokok. Most of the workers working for Coach Enterprises are unionists. In Turkey, it is significant that the majority of the employees of Coach Holdings are unionists in the face of trade union hostility, and that each term comes first in the tax ranking. In that sense, once again, my condolences to the Coach family. Mr. President, we have watched with regret what happened yesterday in the House. It's sad to hear death spoken every day in this House. This Parliament should defend life, not death. I urge the Parliament to be more sensitive to rights violations, to take measures against human rights violations in this regard. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0046par0240	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0047par0242	Mr. President, 100 apartments in the province of Afyonkarahisar have been out of power for four days. Electrical connection is not based on a dispute between the developer and the municipality. The family living in 100 dwellings, unfortunately, is condemned to live in these harsh winter conditions, without electricity. The talks did not yield results, and they say that electricity will not be available for at least another ten days. Even if there is such a discrepancy between a contractor and the city, the contractor who built those condos, even if we accept it, what is the crime of the 100 families living there? We want to know why this electricity wasn't especially connected in this winter's day, why the families were victimized.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0046par0243	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0048par0245	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to address the government officials here: they're offering loans to university students. Of course, it's a need to be a social state, but it's an application of interest in repayment. Our students are victims of this. I demand that the interest be lifted so that these victims can be compensated. We, the CHP, will follow this to the end, if necessary, offer the law. Indeed, most of our students are victims of this. If we give loans, we give them to those who need them, and then we don't charge them interest, just pay them back. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0049par0248	Mr. Aksu...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0050par0250	Thank you. These days the price of nuts is falling, the manufacturer is a victim. Prices are down to $9.5. Although Turkey is ranked first in the world in the production of nuts, the country's economy, particularly the nut producers, is unable to make sufficient use of it. The pricing policy comes at the top of the problems that cause this situation. The nuts, however, are a strategic product for our country, and are the only livelihood of our citizens in the Black Sea region, particularly the Army and Giresun. However, the government's wrong nut policy poorens the nut maker. Therefore, it is imperative that the price guarantee system be brought into the nut, produced under high input costs, and to prevent the price reduction of today's prices, a swift intervention be made. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0051par0253	Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0052par0255	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, those who paid a premium on minimum wage and entered after May 1st paid $322 in premiums in 2015, which went up to $436 for 2016. This number can increase by almost 35 per cent. Many of our agricultural insurance holders, who suffer from payability, are victims of this increase. Also, our agricultural workers, who fail to pay the premiums, are unable to benefit from their health insurance rights. As a member of a party that supports further increase in minimum wage and causes the current growth to happen, I ask you: What measures do you intend to take to the victims of this increase? Does our government have a policy for those of our agricultural insurance people who suffered a lack of health insurance in 2016, due to their failure to pay or fail their premiums, with an inflation rate of 8%? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0053par0258	Mr. Adıyaman...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0054par0260	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, investigations carried out against them have been deliberately extended by the republic's prosecutors, who have been detained by political genocide operations and imprisoned in prisons hundreds of miles away from the cities where they have been, and have been deprived of the right to be brought before a judge of their natural rights for more than six months. Is this policy a requirement for a directive given by the Justice Minister and the government to the state's attorney's office? Will these prisoners be kept waiting longer than they've been brought before the judge? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0055par0263	Mr. Bay...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0056par0265	Mr. President, thank you. And I'd like to offer my condolences to the production-loving coach family. For two days, some 600 trees have been killed and 1,200 more trees will be cut down for six wind turbines in the village of Urla Ovacık. Why are trees cut down when there are more barren areas? Does the Department of Energy give permission without looking at the terrain? They destroy Izmir's lungs. I condemn those who cut down our trees by ignoring a court order.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0057par0268	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0058par0270	Mr. President, thank you so much for your leniency. And I offer my condolences to our valued businessman. I'd like to bring up something that concerns not only my knowledge, but my region. In the question motion I gave last week, I tried to draw attention to the games played in the nuts, warning that some market actors tried to cheapen the nut with manipulation and speculation. I asked Mr. Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu if there would be an intervention as a government. Following that, last week, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, Mr. Faruk Çelik, who accepted the chairman of the Association of Turkey's Agriculture Chambers, members of the Governing Body, and the heads of the room, made a statement that they could buy nuts with TMO. In this direction, it is important for TMO to quickly explain whether it will buy nuts, when, at what price, and how much products it will buy.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0059par0274	Mr. Grandson...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0060par0276	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll start by congratulating the Coach family. Our military province has important roads to the south. One is the link to the Army-Ulubey-Gürgentepe-Gölköy-Mesudiye. The tender process, which has been going on for years and turned into a complete snake story, will finally be done. The only thing that is being done on our way to Gürgentepe is the study of the haphazard. Our citizens are disappointed here in the hope that the road will be made. The roads, screen walls, and vents, which are called the completed routes, have migrated one by one. When exactly will the work in our Ulubey-Gürgentepe-Gölköy connection route be completed? What is the stage of the Fatsa freeway project? What's the exact date of the military freeway? When will the work begin for our path to Akkur-Niksar? What's the status of the dove-Niksar road? Where is the tender process for the 13-28km section known as the Sivas link road and covering our district of Ulubey? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0061par0280	Congressmans, we're going on the agenda.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0062par0281	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0061par0282	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0062par0283	Mr. Secretary has just arrived at the General Assembly in order to get it into the reports. 26 members of parliament have spoken from various parties in Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly and have reported problems in various parts of the country to the government. For the record, 26 lawmakers have not delivered the problems of all sides of Turkey to the government, and they have passed them on to you. At this stage, we demand that the government be in Parliament at this stage of the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where its location is spoken of.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0061par0284	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Congressmans, the presidency has presentations to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0063par0286	May I make a brief statement?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0061par0287	Well, Mr. Secretary, here you go, I promise you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0063par0288	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, many of our friends have brought up the issues mentioned by Mr. Group Vice President. I'll get the information I need on these, and then I'll give it to the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0064par0291	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, I demand that the COBIs, farmers be unable to pay their debts; the loss of well-being of officers, workers and pensioners; the high debt rates of the household; the reasons for the proliferation files; the reasons for the fragile structure of the economy; the risk of the economic crisis; and the 98th and permanent solution proposals of the Constitution shall be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Interior Charter. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] 9) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Ali Haydar Hakver [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Janitor]] [[Ankara]] 20) Gamze Akkuş İsgez [[İstanbul]] [[Paddles]] [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] At the end of 2014, the debt reached $332.4 billion. In 12 years, 396 percent increased by 50 times to another account. In 2002, the household owed as much as $3.4 of its $100 income, while today it owes $4.6 of its $100 income. According to the Banking Organization and Control Agency (BDDK) and the Interbank Card Centre (BKC) data, the country's economic difficulty has turned to cash advance and plus money. In the first six months of last year, a citizen who received an advance on credit cards for $20 billion and $412 million in cash withdrew $26 billion and 82 million in the same year, with 27.7 per cent increase. Plus the amount of unresolved deposits, also known as money, amounted to $8 billion,840 million by the end of June 2015. In the same period of last year, that amount was $6 billion,705 million. So there was an increase of 31.8 per cent year-on-year plus non-payable balance. According to the Turkish Union of Banks (TBB) Risk Centre, the number of persons who were legally followed due to individual credit or individual credit card debt increased by 734,000 people in the first six months of 2015, compared to the same period last year. It is remarkable that recently the majority of executive files belong to SMEs and farmers, as it reveals the recession. The fact that small and medium-sized businesses and farmers can't pay their debts, the legal pursuit of them is a sign that the real sector is at risk. The number of executions has increased 2.5 times in the last 13 years because of those who failed to translate the budget and failed to pay the debt on time. The number of executive files, which were 9 million in 2002, rose to 23 million 824, 764 in 2015. In the last five years, the rate of increase in the execution file has been around 34 percent. The reasons for execution are credit card, vehicle, housing, consumer loans and SME loans used by small companies. According to the TBB Risk Centre, the promissory check due to the period of January-June 2015 increased by 15 per cent compared to the same period last year, while the cost of pro bono checks increased by 47 per cent. In the first six months, banks received 11.1 million checks, while those checks amounted to $317 billion. During the first six months of the year, there was a pro bono transaction for 359,000 checks worth 13.2 billion dollars. However, 65,000 cheques, worth 1.6 billion euros, were paid later in the same period, and the number of unrequited checks, which amounted to 740,000 in 2004, rose to 2 million today. The AKP government's understanding of saving wages and pensions for civil servants has led to the failure of pensioners to make a living. In particular, the shortage of incomes and pensioners with no additional income or salary is more felt in the household. CAMU-SEN, who calculated the minimum income index in July 2015, explained that the salaries of officers and pensioners are 70 per cent below the level of prosperity. Sixty-nine.6% of the officer's salary goes to food and housing costs, with only 30.4% of the salary left to provide for other needs and expenses. Turkey's CDS (Credit Default Swap) has risen to the peak of 16 months (the cost of insurance against bankruptcy in our 5-year-old debt). Turkey's CDS rose to 246,91 points last weekend with ongoing economic concerns. In 2023, this increased Turkey's dream of becoming one of the world's 10 largest economies to the top 10 at the risk of global bankruptcy. Exports remained at 157.6 billion dollars last year. This year, the target is 173 billion dollars, with an increase of 9.7%. In the first six months of the year, exports were reduced by 8.2 per cent to the same period last year and remained at 73.5 billion dollars. Turkey's Exporters' Assembly (TIM) report says the loss in exports has been revised for $15 billion due to a decline in euro/dollar parite. According to this, 2015 would be the lost year for exports. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our country is among countries at risk of earthquakes. As a result of the earthquakes, many of our citizens were injured and lost their lives. After the earthquake, the financial losses will affect the country's economy. The construction of earthquake-resistant structures, the placement of earthquake consciousness, the strengthening of structures against earthquakes and the immediate implementation of building controls. In order to investigate the measures that the government has not taken in the face of and possible earthquakes in our country, and the current inadequacies related to the issue, I demand that Parliament be opened under Article 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Ali Haydar Hakver [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 15) Gamze Akkuş İsgez [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Janitor]] [[Ankara]] [[Paddles]] [[Zonguldak]] Our country is among the countries at high risk of earthquakes as well as its geographical location. Many of the civilizations involved in the Anatolian geography have suffered devastating earthquakes and have suffered considerable damage. Turkey's recent devastating earthquakes have caused traumas in society afterwards. After the Marcha earthquake on 17 August 1999, according to official figures, 17,480 of our citizens lost their lives and 23,781 people were injured; 285,211 homes and 42,902 workplaces were damaged. More than four years have passed since the 7.2 magnitude earthquake occurred in our province on October 23, 2011. After an earthquake in which hundreds of our citizens lost their lives, hundreds of them were injured, and thousands of citizens were homeless, there were negativeities caused by damaged housing, schools, health centers and infrastructure. The earthquake is one of the harshest areas in our country, the East Anatolian region, and its coming winter months have strengthened the problems of the people of Van, who are already struggling with negativity and suffering. The painful images of the Marmara and Van earthquake preserve their place in memory. After the earthquake, structural failures have shown the situation. Mistakes made from building materials to urban planning are caused by natural disasters. What happened after the earthquake is as severe as the mistakes made before the earthquake. Many of our citizens, whose homes have been damaged, remain in negative weather, in tents that are not climate-appropriate. Every time after the earthquake, some of the tents are replaced by containers, and people are condemned to it for weeks. The closest example is the Van earthquake on 23 October 2011. Dozens of our citizens, victims of earthquakes living in containers and tent cities, are forced to live as refugees in their own country. In the harsh winter conditions in the region, earthquake victims families struggle to survive in tents, containers, along with trauma. In the past years, the CHP delegation conducted studies in the region, apart from the family housing issue, has seen poor nutrition, non-hygienic life struggles, and reiterated the issue of emergency measures and measures, sharing their views with the public. Studies and repairs on the residential fitness of the damaged structures after the earthquake have been met with suspicion by the public. The homes that were built after the earthquake, given to earthquake victims, are already paid high wages for those who have suffered financial and spiritual loss. The earthquake dwellings, after a while, show lack of infrastructure, and our citizens are again victimised. The government's primary duty is to protect its citizens' right to live. Scientists' modeling of the possible Istanbul earthquake shows that the necessary measures are still not being taken. Political governments, not earthquakes, will be responsible for future earthquake disasters, as those responsible for creating earthquakes for the sake of the runt, allowing economic concerns and illegal development changes to the construction sector. The government has made its own confession that "depress money" was spent on double roads, known publicly after the October 23, 2011, and after the Van earthquake. The responsibility of any loss will be the responsibility of executives who have not learned from past disasters. The construction of earthquake-resistant structures, the placement of earthquake consciousness, the strengthening of structures against earthquakes and the immediate implementation of building controls. It is imperative that Turkey's Grand National Assembly investigate the measures that the government has not taken in the face of and the possible earthquakes in our country. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the causes of forest fires, loss of life and financial damage, and to find effective solutions to forest fires, I demand that Parliament be opened under Article 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Ali Haydar Hakver [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 15) Gamze Akkuş İsgez [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Janitor]] [[Ankara]] [[Paddles]] [[Zonguldak]] Forests, soil protection, water regimes, climate, public health, national defenses, recursion, tourism, wildlife protection and so on. The country's national values provide social and cultural services with positive impacts on issues such as this. The protection of our forest assets is a matter of utmost importance and immediate resolution. Not only must we raise our forests properly, but also the forest must be protected against various dangers, the necessary measures to be taken on time and to be prepared to fight the dangers that may arise despite these measures. Fires in our forest areas also cause great damage to olive trees, livestock, beekeeping, and other agricultural areas. Turkey, which has experienced the largest forest fires in its history in 2007, has still failed to form a national policy against forest fires, and "regards the warnings made by the government for forest fires," as the Court's report to the TBMM in 2004 suggests. Instead of preventing forest fires, opening in forests and taking precautions to prevent forest invasion, the AKP insists on selling forest areas at 2/B status to local and foreign companies; it encourages the plundering of forests, opening forests, being destroyed or burned by human hands. There is a concern that areas that have emerged in public with forest fires will be granted zoning permits and will be transformed into tourist and housing sites or sold. In this context, the investigation of the origins of forest fires, the competencies of the measures, the questioning of the casualties so far, the questioning of administrative neglects, and so on. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, at the beginning of the session, Mr. Nabi Avcı from the government has arrived with the General Assembly to inform the group's representatives, Mr. President of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Engin Altay. Mr. Secretary, are you on the stand or are you on the stand?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0065par0470	As you wish.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0064par0471	I'll give you my word on the bench. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0065par0476	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, we'd like to make a brief statement about the procedure first.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0066par0477	Minister, see how many friends listen to you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0067par0478	They're listening backstage.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0065par0479	I make this statement not as the Minister of National Education, but as the minister of the sentry, because later on, why is the Minister of National Education doing all this? I don't want to cause such polemics. Sir, I'd like to share with you the information from the Foreign Ministry on the question asked about Qamishlı. It's true that the regime forces and Russians are acting together in areas under regime forces' control in Syria. It is true that there is a certain Russian military presence with regimen forces. Here, the regime forces, the Russian soldiers and the PYD are working together. That's the State Department's intel. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0068par0483	There's no threat, is there, Minister?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0069par0484	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0068par0485	So there's no threat to us.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0070par0486	No.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0071par0487	The information isn't right either, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0068par0488	Right?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0071par0489	The information that the PYD is acting with Russia and with the regime is not true.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0072par0490	If you want to make a statement on behalf of the PYD, you explain it.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0071par0492	We don't have the right to make a statement, but you need to give the House accurate information.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0072par0493	If you have such authority, explain if you have such expertise.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0073par0494	They've explained what they have available information, Mr. Idris.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0074par0495	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0075par0496	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0074par0497	We see, Mr. Secretary's answer or information has been satisfied with a sentence. Should we, of course, make an assessment as groups? We'd like to take a statement.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0075par0498	It's all yours, Mr. Akchay. If you'd like, I can give my word to the members of the group, that they're in position, according to Mr. Secretary's statement.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0076par0499	It's important, Mr. President, that we speak from the stand.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0074par0500	We can do it again from the podium like you did yesterday, sir, not more than five or ten minutes. At least let us brief the Minister on that.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0076par0503	It concerns Turkey's foreign policy.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0077par0504	He came in, read the headline.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0078par0505	Mr. Group, I'm going to give my word to the vice presidents about their position. Mr. Akçay, if you want to take turns, you can use your say-so.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0079par0507	Yes, on behalf of our group, our Gaziantep MP Mr. Umit Özdağ will speak.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0078par0508	Well, let's turn on Mr. Özdağ's microphone.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0079par0509	Isn't that from the bench, sir?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0078par0510	Mr. Akçay, I'll give you your seat.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0079par0511	Actually, he could have been on the stand, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0078par0512	Here you are, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0080par0514	I'd like to thank the Minister for his information. The fact that he was previously the Minister of National Education, which, indeed, was very good after that answer, was located, and I thank you. The State Department only informed you of what we read in the papers today, but other than that, there's nothing in that statement. However, what the Assembly must know is that from one side of Syria, from just below Cerablus, with U.S. troops or with U.S. special forces, the PKK and the NYD have been in motion and have been able to penetrate the area that Turkey has declared to be an impenetrable region... they have recorded a distance of about 20km away, and this 90km -- which is what Turkey called unreachable -- has fallen from good to 70, 60km north of Aleppo, and has fallen from the north of Aleppop. In this regard, although the government has a very clear attitude, no one can penetrate here, the PKK cannot enter here. Despite what it says, the PKK has entered, and unfortunately it makes statements that mock the government of the Republic of Turkey. On the other hand, on the other side of Syria, on the other side of Syria, we see a co-operation between the PKK, the PYD, the Syrian regime and Russia. All of this clearly concerns and threatens Turkey's national security, and it clearly violates the position that the government represents in Ankara, threatens our national security. But unfortunately, we're not dealing with a lot of information, let alone a little information or protest from the government. In fact, there have been explanations, such as there are no PYD, no PKK members, that are the Arab troops who enter. That's not true, we all know they're PYD from the PKK. When's he gonna react to that? We are anxious to know when Turkey will take what attitude, Mr. Secretary, to prevent the attack on this area he calls impenetrable. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0081par0518	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0082par0521	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, of course, Mr. Minister's response has shown in some way how seriously the AKP government takes Parliamentary will. In one sentence, the information he gave without any information, based on data, without a single sentence about what the foreign policy perspective is in front of us; in fact, it wasn't good, so if he had never given it to me, it probably wouldn't have written another negative point on the AKP government's report card in respect of Parliament's will. Of course, it is now one of the most important agendas in the Middle East, and the key to the Middle East equation is shaped in Syria. In Syria, we have stated that the AKP government has been insisting on wrong policies from the beginning, that it has been employed by a number of sectarian policies on the axis of a number of non-nationally legitimate gang structures, and that it can bring heavy bills to Turkey in the future, and we have repeatedly warned on this issue. We have stated that what Turkey should do is play a pioneer role in peaceful diplomatic efforts, both in Syria, and in the Middle East, on the basis of the Syrian people's will, not in the war in Syria. However, the AKP insisted on being a part of the power of attorney wars there. The adventure, which began with Al Nusra gangs in Serekaniya, continued with ISIS gangs in Kobani. Today, again, Ahrar el Damascus, El Nusra, is asked to be carried out on Cerablus through the brigades created by the hands of the new MIT. These are extremely dangerous approaches. From the beginning, we have stated that Turkey could contribute to the formation of the democratic Syrian Republic, especially the Kurds in Syria and the peoples of Rojava, to the formation of the Syrian Republic, and today we are underlining the same issue. However, as far as we can see, the AKP, which sat the Assad regime in its own head as an enemy perception of Kurds, has now created a yawn over the Assad regime, but it continues its hostile position with the Kurds, and wants to continue it with a diplomatic effort based on the suggestion that the international diplomacy is a PYD terrorist organization. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, I'll clean it up.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0083par0526	Yes, to complete, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0082par0527	Currently, none of the world's countries see the PYD as a terrorist organization. To be clear, no one outside Turkey sees the PYD as a terrorist organization; rather, it is the will of the peoples of Rojava, who have saved the honor of a terrorist organization such as ISIS. So far, the PYD has not had a single hostile action or stance against Turkey, nor has there been a single actual attack on Turkey's borders by the PYD. In Suruç, Ankara, Diyarbakır, on the contrary, Süleyman Shah Turbesi also carried out his own historical responsibility during the operation to prevent the massacre of Turkish soldiers by the ISIS barbarian gangs, as he was seen during the transport. So, instead of Turkey creating an enemy perception of the Kurds, we think it's the only way for Turkey to contribute to the construction of the Democratic Syrian Republic of Syria, including the Democratic Syrian Forces and the PYD, to support peaceful diplomatic efforts by defining them correctly. We want to express that the perception of artificial hostility here is inadmissible in any way, and that it is doomed to lose in front of history. I have a little advice for government officials: Don't use too big sentences, you'll have to withdraw all those sentences in the near future. So for now, I'll be content with this warning. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0084par0530	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0085par0533	Thank you. Mr. President, I also have to inform both the General Assembly and Mr. Aydın MP Mehmet Erdem. In that respect, I'll request an additional minute. AK PARTI Adıyaman MP, Mehmet Erdem... Is that correct?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0086par0537	Enlightenment.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0085par0538	It says here, "Name of the Name."
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0087par0539	Enlightenment, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0085par0540	He mentioned that our mayor of Aydın was using a co-existence process against our chief of women, and he gave such a speech. I got the speech text, looked it up. There's a claim that a marketplace has been turned into a coal tank, and that the neighborhood's all about it. We'll contact our municipality, get some healthy information, notify the General Assembly and our congressman. I just wanted to say that first. Secondly, Mr. President, members of lawmakers, it appears that Turkey had been placed in the bench and then in the stands before the AKP before it was first in the Middle East. I'm afraid, at this rate, Turkey will be thrown out of the stands in the Middle East. This is the result of the mistakes of AKP's foreign policy in the region. Gene, we now see that even though the Minister accepts the deployment of his Russian military presence on the border, his confession, the central government says with military troops, Russia is obviously moving into the region. From both the air and land, Russia is taking the initiative at our southern border, at a very troubled area at 900km. Now, the bottom line is that when he was going to pray in Damascus, he was unable to draw a sword to the Syrian border, Turkey. This is the government's disgrace; this is a clear indication that Turkey has been discredited in foreign policy and in the region as a result of the government's policies. As a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, of course, we can't digest it. I'd also like to remind the government that Turkey has to ask why we're out of the equation now, against those who initially brought us up in the process. Whoever put Turkey in this job, whoever suggested it, let the government go to them now and ask them why we're out of the equation now. That's not foreign policy. Turkey's reputation is more important than anything, of course in the dorm, under the principle of peace in jihanda. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0088par0546	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0089par0547	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0088par0548	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0089par0549	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a few statements about these matters.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0090par0550	Is it different from the first minister's statement? We've been given ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0088par0551	Mr. Secretary, from the stand or from your position? Mr. Group, I promised the vice presidents their seats.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0091par0553	On the stand.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0092par0554	Why don't you do it in your place, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0091par0555	Two steps between the two, it doesn't matter.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0093par0556	Yes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0091par0558	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, even though that's not on the agenda, even though political party groups don't have an agreement, so to speak, we can't talk about Turkey's foreign policy and security issues here, with its name on the market.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0094par0560	What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0091par0561	So you have to have an agenda, and that needs to be discussed with the agenda. Two, the officials of many parties are insisting on an article that has become a news story. Mr. Secretary, since he was meeting with the State Department at the time, he's here to provide information to the General Assembly, and then he goes out and confesses. E, well, the respected group in the opposition gives competent information, like MPs, Mr. Özdağ, Mr. Baluken, living in Syria, to confess theirs, for example, Mr. Baluken is making official statements and confessing on behalf of the PYD. So the General Assembly asks a question, a minister says he's giving information on behalf of the government, then turns around and confesses. Now, after we mention these, Syria is a problem by international rules, but it's still a sovereign country, and outside the Syrian regime, they're all different groups. The one close to you of the terrorist groups can't be good, and the one close to the other can't be bad. Terrorists are terrorists. So my terrorist is fighting with the other terrorist, so my terrorist is fine. Now, we know that the deployment of Russian troops in Syria, that is, the deployment of them in Syria, near the border of Turkey, and that some precious friends are a threat to Turkey -- I just hope that Turkey is a NATO country while providing information to the General Assembly, and whatever the amount of it -- is already in Syria, what the Russian Federation is doing there -- can not be a threat to Turkey, which is a NATO member. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0095par0567	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0096par0568	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0097par0569	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0095par0570	Mr. Altay, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0096par0571	Mr. President, I want to be constructive. According to 59, I have ten minutes to speak.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0098par0572	Sir, the 59 provisions can't be enforced, we're on the agenda. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0096par0573	No way! Nabi Avcı is born from the Minister's. And I'm not driving. Look, don't make me sick!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0098par0574	Mr. President, let's take a look at the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0099par0575	So he's not gonna use it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0096par0576	But there's a taunt, so there's a confession, a warning, and it's not nice. I'd like to answer, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0100par0577	Here you are, Mr. Altay. I promise you two minutes before you mess with me. Thank you, Mr. President, Congressman. Mr. Secretary, foreign policy is not your monopoly, and Turkey is not your monopoly, and no one sitting here is a shelf diamond.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0101par0583	What isn't?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0102par0584	It's not a shelf diamond. So the opposition party issued a two-minute report on the deputy leaders' speech on Turkish foreign policy. It's rude, Mr. Secretary, to say the least. You're not an inexperienced politician either. We're thinking about the country. We're thinking about the country's survival. We're trying to figure out how to make the Turkish foreign policy that you screwed up, that you embarrassed, better, more positive. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, wasn't your government, your previous government? We'll go to next Friday and pray in Damascus? So I said, "You've become unable to reach Syria, within a meter of the border." Is that nice? Is that right?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0103par0588	You stood side by side with Assad.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0104par0589	That's what happens when you get your picture taken.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0102par0590	Now, confession or no confession. We're MPs. That's news. We're getting calls. We said, "What's the truth?" Wasn't that what we were going to say? You can't stand that either? So don't let the opposition question you, don't let the opposition control you... there's no such thing. Despite everything, there is democracy in Turkey. There is still a parliamentary democratic system in this country, whether you've destroyed it or destroyed it. There's the Constitution. You'll fit in. I repeat, who put you up to this in the first place? Come out and tell the MPs of this nation honestly: "O MPs, they have given us so much gas that I should not tell any other Westerner" -- the countries have given us so much gas that we would go to Damascus and pray with it. But we, now, have been excluded from the equation. That's the gist of it. That's what happened. Instead of saying that, accusing the opposition of publishing a pirate statement, I'm sure, and I understand you've never read the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If you'd read it, you wouldn't have come here and said, "The opposition group's MPs are posting a pirated statement." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like a half a minute.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0105par0595	Complete, please, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0102par0596	This is also a clear sign of your contempt for Parliament. I condemn you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0106par0598	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0105par0599	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0106par0600	Mr. President, the Article 59 of the Civil Code is very clear, and the government grants this request if it wants a word out of the agenda in extreme haste. After the government's statement, political party groups have the right to speak once and for all, not over ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0107par0601	The Minister didn't ask for such a word.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0106par0602	Now, Mr. Secretary has briefed Parliament on an extraordinary development at the border. So here we have the right to answer to our party group for ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0108par0603	Mr. Baluken made a brief statement because the government didn't have such a request.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0109par0604	It's on the agenda, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0108par0605	So...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0110par0606	No, you've already made a commitment at the request of the government, Mr. Secretary has requested it from you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0111par0607	No, I answered the question.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0112par0608	No, at your request...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0113par0609	Mr. Bauken, Mr. Engin Altay has received the Minister's promise to respond at the request of Mr. Engin Altay.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0111par0610	Yes, it did.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0114par0611	It doesn't matter, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0115par0612	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0116par0613	Mr. Baluken, I'd like to...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0114par0614	No, in extreme haste, when the government comes here and gives us an update...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0117par0615	Nothing out of the ordinary.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0118par0616	I haven't made a statement about the state of emergency.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0119par0617	I've already promised the members of the group their seats, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0120par0618	No, no, Mr. President, I mean, the Civil Code is very clear about this. So we have ten minutes to express our views on the information given by Mr. Secretary, and we have the right to inform the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0118par0619	You did...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0119par0620	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0120par0621	The request may have come from the members of the group, or it may have come from the government. Here's the reality: there's an extraordinary situation.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0118par0622	No, nothing out of the ordinary.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0120par0623	The government also briefed the General Assembly on the state of emergency. So we get ten minutes of information from the General Assembly, according to the Civil Charter 59.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0121par0624	Mr. Akçay, let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0122par0625	Mr. President, you have the right to speak on both Article 59 and Article 69. Mr. Altay's request for a statement from the government was a request we agreed to, and as you have just stated, Mr. Altay is not the answer to an explanation, it is an act of the government's explanation. Therefore, the group has ten minutes to say so.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0123par0626	I answered the question.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0124par0627	Okay, what did Mr. Turkesh do then?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0122par0628	Actually, it wasn't where it was. But later, the other Minister's speech was clearly a taunt. Therefore, we demand a word based on 59 and 69.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0125par0629	We haven't already entered 69...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0126par0630	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0127par0631	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0126par0632	Mr. President, Article 59 is very clear. We're not afraid of anyone saying anything, of course it can be spoken, of course it can be judged, but you're there to make sure that the Civil Law is conducted properly. If the government has information on the matter before we go on the agenda, each group will have ten minutes. However, we've moved on to the agenda, the previous ones have been read, so it's not like we're off the agenda. After Mr. Altay's statement, Mr. Secretary responded. If they wish, it is against the Civil Code to say, "This is the government's information" and then give ten minutes to each group. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0128par0634	We insist on our request.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0129par0635	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0130par0636	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0129par0637	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0130par0638	It's not about extraordinary at all. I mean, in many newspapers today, the media, now that it's costing the public, and the opposition knows perfectly well...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0131par0639	We can't hear the sound, Mr. President, if you turn on the microphone...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0129par0640	Let's turn on the microphone, Mr. Secretary, there's no sound.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0130par0641	So it's not an extraordinary situation, it's just an answer to the question, that's all.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0132par0642	And it's not your request.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0130par0643	And it's not our request.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0133par0644	Mr. President, it's not just an answer to a question, it's on behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0134par0645	No, I answered the question.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0133par0646	It's a matter of utmost importance. About Syrian policy and Middle Eastern policy, political party groups have proposed that the government may turn a number of wrongs. So we don't understand why political party groups are opposed to the right to speak about this.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0135par0647	Easy, easy.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0136par0648	Mr. Baluken, we're on the agenda. I've just said, Mr. Altay, at the request of Mr. Altay, Mr. Secretary has answered the question and I've promised the members of the group their seats at the same time.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0137par0649	He also accused them of publishing a pirate manifesto.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0136par0650	I can repeat those words once more, and I can promise you from your position to the members of the group.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0138par0651	Sir, there's obviously been some bullying from the podium.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0136par0652	I can promise you one thing, Mr. Akchay, that's one thing, but once again, Mr. Bauken, I'm going to give my word to the members of the group.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0139par0653	Mr. President, I mean, we insist on our request, and we don't approve of your attitude. If you insist on this, I'll open up a formal discussion about your attitude.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0140par0654	Come on, Mr. President, our time is of the essence.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0136par0655	Mr. Akçay, do you demand a word for bullying?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0141par0656	Yes, we demand a word, sir, both according to Article 69, according to Article 59.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0136par0657	Let's promise you two minutes for the bullying, first let's evaluate it.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0142par0658	Sir, no teasing them. What I said to HDP...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0143par0659	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0136par0660	Mr. Secretary, now that the name's been mentioned, there's a demand for a word of sarcasm.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0144par0661	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0145par0662	No, Mr. Akçay is defending HDP's rights. I don't have to pick on them.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0144par0663	That's enough, Mr. Secretary! I want it on the stand, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0146par0665	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0147par0666	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0146par0667	Let's make a promise to Akçay first, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0148par0669	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, it's not just a dry run to the House, it's a little Civil Code, it's a matter of rights law. We defend the law; we defend the Civil Law, our rights. So we also know that the entire Turkish National Assembly, not only the Republican People's Party or the HDP, but also the AKP's rights, which comes from our understanding of the law; one. Second: What do you mean, to express the talks of the members of the group as pirated declarations? Obviously, Mr. Altay asked the government to inform him of the developments in Syria, asking him to make a statement, to make any claims and respond to this. He did not say, he asked for information. Yeah, well, as deputy president of the MHP Group, I've confirmed that such an opinion would be correct. And Mr. Secretary, in one sentence, if it's possible to get more information out of the newspapers, it's almost as if he's making fun of Congress...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0149par0672	Don't mention it...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0148par0673	The other Minister later states with a pirate statement. I regret it! I think there must be a continuation of AKP's under-the-stair politics that we're not going to talk about in Congress, where are we going to talk about it? It's the right thing to do. We defend the Civil Law, we defend our rights and our law. We have no intention of violating the rights of any party or any member of parliament, and we have no intention of defending it. The pointy tip of our compass is based on the law, the law. Dear friends, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0150par0677	Thank you, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0151par0678	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0150par0679	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0151par0680	Before discussing the procedure... during his speech -- you're currently running an agenda according to the Civil Code 69 -- he made an open statement against me, stating that I used statements like a PYD official, and that he used sentences like "do not make the terrorist organization close to him better" to our group. Therefore, we demand a say in the name of the individual and in the interest of taunting our group.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0150par0681	Who will speak, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0151par0682	I'll speak for myself, Mr. Osman Baydemir, on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0150par0683	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0151par0685	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, we never speak here as anyone's official representative, and no one needs anything like that. The PYD doesn't need to speak for him because the PYD is well-known to all the world's parliaments, governments, governments, peoples, public opinion. In PYD, it makes it clear what it thinks in the political democratic Syrian construction, what it is planning, what it is struggling with there. Second of all, we're trying to say something that's very constructive without arguing over a polemic like this. The direction of the PYD and the Kurds there is directed towards Turkey, as it has been from the beginning. Turkey, however, remains persistently hostile, hostile. If Turkey had approached the people's will from two and a half years ago, from the basis of respect for the will of the peoples in Rojava, from respect for the status of the Kurds there, to respect the construction of the democratic Syrian Republic, today he would be the strongest actor in the Syrian equation, today he would be the most powerful country in the Middle East, and today he would be the foremost in peaceful diplomatic efforts, but since he did not do all this, he continues to struggle with the absolute anti-Kurdish anti-Kurdish anti-Kurdish policy because he has established a policy over Kurdish hostility. Don't object to such matters without content. The Prime Minister knew both Syria and the Middle East very well, and he knew very well where the real solution would come from during our numerous discussions with him. So we urge the government to constantly warn and give up the wrongs, to base the will of the people in peaceful diplomatic efforts, that's what we say. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0152par0692	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0153par0693	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0152par0694	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0153par0695	Mr. Secretary has just made it clear on the stand again that Mr. Umit Özdağ is speaking as if he were in Syria. Again, Mr. Umit Özdağ has the right to say...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0152par0696	Let's promise Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Akçay, I'll promise Mr. Özdağ. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0154par0699	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you with respect, love, respect. Mr. President, one wrong cannot be corrected by another, one lie cannot be justified by another. Today, Syria is one of the reasons why the Middle East swamp is like this today is government policy itself. One of the reasons why such a tragedy took place in Turkey today...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0155par0701	It's you!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0154par0702	...that Turkey's AKP government is the source of Syrian policy from Kurdish hostility. To let the Kurds have status there, El Nusra, Al Qaeda, ISIS organizations -- to tolerate, as they call it, the lightest -- is one of the main causes of the swamp here today.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0155par0703	If it wasn't for Turkey, they wouldn't even get an ID, you wouldn't even get an ID.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0154par0704	Look, right now, some of our deputies and some of our groups are saying that we can't get close to the Syrian border by the sword. What did he say, Mr. President? What was he saying, Mr. Prime Minister Assad? Listen to the voice of your people, civil murder, murder of children. What's happening today in Cizre? What's happening in Şırnak today? What's happening in Diyarbakır today?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0156par0705	Terrorists slaughter civilians.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0154par0706	Exactly what you have criticised Assad is happening in this geography today.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0157par0707	Martyrs...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0154par0708	Mr. President, let's not get too close to the Syrian border, today Turkey is moving one step at a time towards Syria. In order for Turkey not to become Syrian...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0158par0709	No, no, no.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0159par0710	You tried that and it didn't work out.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0160par0711	Will you come to the martyr's funeral?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0161par0712	...in order for the internal war not to deepen, in order for chaos not to happen, we must immediately give up this policy, to give up war policy, to give up imperial policies. We have no choice but to build peace inside and out.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0159par0713	You're saying that the wrong way.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0162par0715	If it weren't for this government, you wouldn't be talking here.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0161par0716	It's not about dying. It's about keeping us alive.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0163par0718	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir. Mr. Özdağ, please.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0164par0721	Mr. President, dear members of the Council, if I had thought about it for ten years, I never would have thought I'd be able to speak here one day because Mr. Turkesh was picking on me. That's life. "Suriye is a sovereign state," he said, "Mr. Minister." It's very important that the government remembers this. Look, the representative of the government has made it very clear that Syria is a sovereign state. I think that's what's supposed to be on the front page of every newspaper tomorrow, and that's number one.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0165par0723	The phone's gone, they won't write tomorrow.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0164par0724	Secondly, again, Mr. Secretary, terrorist organizations in this country, this terrorist organization, this terrorist organization...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0166par0725	What do you think it is? What do you think it is?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0164par0726	...the terrorist group that matched you said that you couldn't be approached in the form of a terrorist organization, that the terrorist was a terrorist. In fact, we agree with that 100%. So, why did the government talk to some terrorist organizations -- including this PYD -- in the past, and again, there are allegations about why they were associated with some organizations that were considered internationally considered terrorist organizations, and why they even supported them? These need to be answered, too. So, how is it that we sit in the opposition and in the old chair of the Minister, and we see what's inside Syria better than the government, and we know the issues better? That depends on the perspective where you're sitting. From the perspective of Alparslan Türkesh, it seems better, unfortunately not from the perspective of Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit01spe0167par0729	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0167par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0168par0003	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0167par0004	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0168par0005	Before that, before the session was closed, we had a request for a procedure. So, in light of the government's state of emergency, I've stated that ten minutes of speech has fallen to political party groups and that our group wants to use its say-so.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0169par0006	No, I didn't make a statement based on the state of emergency, I answered a question asked.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0168par0007	However, you had set a course against it. So we had a request to discuss the procedure, and I demand that he be taken into consideration.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0170par0008	All right, I'll open the discussion of the procedure, Mr. Baluken. On both sides, I'll give my word to the two opposing MPs. First, let's identify the opposing speakers.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0168par0009	Against you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0171par0010	Lehte.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0172par0011	Lehte.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0173par0012	Mr. Baluken is against, Mr. Kubat is in favor, Mr. Altay is in favor. Mr. Akçay?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0174par0014	It's against me, too, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0173par0015	Against you. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0175par0017	Let's start with the one on the side, sir.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0173par0018	All right, let's start with the sidelines. Mr. Kubat is in favor...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0176par0020	Sir, first things first, we're in favor of your attitude.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0173par0021	Mr. Kubat, come in. I'll give you three minutes, Mr. Kubat, please.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0176par0025	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a commitment to express my views in favor of the President's position in a formal meeting. On this occasion, I salute your high council. My dear President, our Minister has just made an announcement with the General Assembly at the call of a group of our vice presidents, and then our HDP member, our friend, who, according to Article 59, has been given a say in the matter, has opened his argument with this procedure. The Court of Presidents did not implement Article 59, because it is not the 59th article here, the government did not ask for an off-the-topic statement by making a request here. Hence, it is not possible for groups to have a say in the matter. On the other hand, there is an agenda in Article 49. Off the agenda is a form of speech that can already be requested in the phase before the agenda, which has been arranged in the Interior Charter. On the 1st article of the agenda, you've already processed, you've already read the research proposals, in the department of the President's General Assembly. Therefore, there is no application of Article 59 after the agenda. We may not like this Civil Code, but we all know that we have to comply. In the first place, our parliamentary legislatures must act according to this Civil Code, and the party groups must act accordingly. Of course, we defend the rights of the opposition to the end, because this is a place of negotiation, where everyone will have different opinions, but when we express them, we must act in accordance with our Civil Code. In Article 59, 60, 69, 81, 91, which regulates the rights of the Civil Code, these have been edited. So, here, I see the group's deputy president's request, however, to say to the member that he has a very short word in the context of the 60th article, is already promised by our group's deputy president, and in fact, the demand will be met in this framework, and while our group's vice presidents are well aware of it, I see this as an attempt to remove a three-minute stand-by term from here alone. Therefore, I respectfully salute your grand delegation, saying that Mr. President is not allowed to speak to groups according to 59.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0177par0030	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Mr. Baluken, come in. And I promise you three minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0178par0033	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. Of course, I've made a promise against your interpretation of this existing Civil Code clause, but I really hope that your attitude will set an example for other Parliament Speakers, Mr. Ahmet Aydın is also here. So the importance of acting according to the Civil Code is once again revealed in this Parliament. No matter what political party group demands, parliamentary MPs should be able to comment on what they see in the Interior Charter, but so far, unfortunately, Parliament Speakers and Parliament Speakers have taken a stand based on the demand from the political party groups they came from. In this regard, you have used the right to comment on a request from our group, which means that you have only misinterpreted an admirable attitude. Because in Article 59, there is no such thing as demand from the groups or the government's request for a non-responsibility of the government in extreme haste. Here, the ministers asked for a statement regarding an extremely important issue to inform the General Assembly on Syrian policy, and came and briefed them. Thus, the other political party groups had the right to express their views for ten minutes on the subject. Now, the AKP Group or government officials are afraid of what the opposition is going to say, which is impossible to understand. Of course, I mean, if you do anything wrong with Rojava policy, Syrian policy, Middle Eastern policy, and you're on the verge of bankruptcy, then you're gonna have to bring a thousand streams of water to keep the opposition from talking on the stand. We're here to make it clear what you need to do. So far, the Syrian and Rojava policy has been completely wrong. And if he persists, unfortunately, he will face huge bills in both Turkey, Syria and the Middle East swamps, and he will squander a historic opportunity to ensure his own inner peace. Today, 40 million Kurdish people living in the middle of the Middle East are not enemies of Turkey. You can't give any samples here. From any part of it, from Kurds to Turkey, there was this attack, this border violation, this bombing. You can't say that. Thus, while such a reality is in the middle, Turkey needs a new foreign policy perspective that will act with Kurds in its new Middle Eastern policy and contribute to its own domestic peace. Instead of shutting us up, we advise you to consider what we say. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0179par0039	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0180par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bauken probably slipped his tongue. He said that Mr. Buldan was part of his party, but acted according to the Civil Code, and that he was neutral by considering his party's demands according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0181par0043	I take it you didn't hear what I said.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0180par0044	Right, I'm not saying anything, but now that the AKP-based congressional MPs...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0181par0045	He misinterpreted the Civil Code, but he did not take a stand in our favor because the demand came from us.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0180par0046	Yes, we'll discuss the comment separately, that's not what I'm saying. You said that the AKP-based Parliament Speakers were doing business and processing according to demands from their party, which is true, but you didn't say "AKP"; you also put Mr. Akif Hamzacebi (Mr. Akif Hamzacebi) in this category. I think it's a little unfair. We need to fix him. Of course, we'd like all of our congressmen to do their job, not according to the opinion and opinion of the party they came from, but according to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Of course, the Civil Code can be interpreted in various ways by the presidents based on comment from time to time. Now, Mr. President, we asked for an explanation, we asked for information, Mr. Nabi Avcı gave two sentences of information to the General Assembly at our request, but then what did you promise Mr. Turkesh? What did Mr. Turkesh want to say? He wanted to, but what did he say? The situation is different if he wanted it according to 59, if he wanted it according to 60. Now, there's no such thing as using ten minutes if he wanted to, but if Mr. Turkesh wanted to, if he wanted to, he wanted to... you know, I don't mean that. That's the way it is. Now, Mr. Turkesh doesn't know why he's up here. For what reason, he does not have any information as to which clause of the Civil Charter. Then he tells us you're reading the Korean manifesto. That's the bottom line. We're not supposed to make these serious issues polemic here. In other words, the Russian military has endured the border of the country. The newspapers are making headlines. We naturally, with a patriotic reflex, asked the government to explain it to us, and we received an unsatisfactory explanation. Mr. Turkesh came out later, started doing polemics here in his own way. I'm telling you, Mr. Turkesh, let him go into his polemics... so let him try to give a little direction and positivity to the Turkish foreign policy that they've made very bad. I mean, if the government can account for why we've been excluded from the equation in the Middle East, Middle Eastern politics, especially Syria, instead of making small talk to the opposition here, then I suggest we shut it down and move on to the agenda. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0182par0052	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0183par0055	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. President, you will all remember yesterday's General Assembly meetings. Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Party (HDP) has asked the government to make some statements regarding some of the incidents in Cizre and the allegations related to HDP MP Faysal Sarıyıldıldıl. Later, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Lütfi Elvan arrived after the Republican People's Party's Party's Deputy President made similar demands, and gave information according to 59. He had a 20-minute speech period, he took seven minutes of it, and we, the group's vice presidents, used our ten minutes of conversation. Today, Mr. Altay's request is the same as yesterday's, asking the government for information. At the bottom of our Syrian border, there is a grave claim that Russian troops, Russia, are being deployed. Of course, there's nothing more important than asking for information about this. Mr. Minister of National Education came out, and he spoke in a sentence, but he spoke according to 59. It's not an answer. Let's not get ahead of ourselves, dear friends. It's important. In one sentence, he used his right to twenty minutes, according to 59. He did not reveal the knowledge, nor did he give the knowledge. Here, this information should be given. And I specifically remind the president that whatever his attitude was yesterday, it was the same thing that had to be done today. Dear MPs, of course, the Justice and Development Party can't defend Syrian policy, there's no way to defend it. After that, what happened in Syria began to hurt us too much. We also see efforts to Syrianize Adeta Turkey, and that's what happened in the last months, in the weeks, and the imperialists are stationed in Syria, and they have accounts on Turkey. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you know, with Syria, he wasn't going anywhere with those MIT trucks either. It's not clear yet, so they haven't been able to figure out where the MIT trucks went, who they went to. Now there are issues about whether Cyprus's water goes to Israel or not. In a confusion, the government doesn't know what it's doing, and it's in conflicting explanations. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The government must give up conflicting governance and policies. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0184par0064	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Congressmans, there's no change in my position, we're moving on. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 21/1/2016 (today), I respectfully submit that the following proposal of our group should be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 14 January 2016, medical workers, such as Diyarbakır MP Mr. Sibel Yiğitalp and his friends (612 rows) have had a number of problems, including their life safety, while they are under pressure due to the ongoing curfews in Turkey; a proposal for a parliamentary inquiry to be submitted to the Turkish Parliament for the information of the General Assembly in order to investigate and identify the right violations of health workers has been proposed to be read in the same date in a joint meeting Thursday (21/1/2016). In favour of the group's proposal, the first speaker is Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken. Mr. Bauken, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0185par0082	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the group's proposal for the attacks on health workers in the curfews. I salute you all. Before I speak, I have long greeted the health workers who are on a peace watch in this country with life versus death, white against black. In Diyarbakır, health workers and physicians have been on watch day and night for twenty-nine days, ten days in İstanbul, and four days in Ankara to bring peace to this country, instead of dying in this country, to update life day and night. From here, on behalf of our entire group, I would like to say that I salute this meaningful, precious process of action, the event process, once again. Again, because it's urgent... there may not be enough time. While the ministers are here, we have an urgent matter to deliver to them. An ambulance has been waiting in Cizre for more than four and a half hours. Although we've made all kinds of attempts in both local and Ankara for our friend who was severely injured by the fire caused by the security forces, Helin has not been hospitalized by ambulance until now. Adeta, to lead Helin to death...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0186par0086	He's got a gun, he's got a gun.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0185par0087	What do you say, Congressman?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0186par0088	You can't blame the security forces here, they're shooting at the one with the gun.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0187par0090	Don't interfere! You live in space!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0185par0091	It is clear to us who was hit by the Helin pioneer. Is that all you've got? We're saying that a young college student's family is waiting for an ambulance at the entrance to Cizre right now, and look at the lack of conscience you've shown! I mean, it's a really big...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0186par0092	You can't say you have no conscience, so please take it back. Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0185par0094	Take back what? You're making a big mistake!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0186par0096	You can't say you don't have a conscience. You have no conscience! You have no conscience!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0188par0097	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0185par0098	If a college student's being left to die because the ambulance didn't go, and you're defending it, then you're doing the worst of it.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0186par0099	Alhamdulillah, I defend with honor.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0188par0100	Mr. Bauken, please address the General Assembly. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0189par0102	Mr. Secretary, based on the information you've been given, the family of Helin Vanguard has been waiting for hours at the entrance to Cizre as well. An ambulance will go and take that boy to the hospital and run a health care process with the right to live. Although the European Court of Human Rights has taken a precautionary decision because this process has not been carried out before, unfortunately, we have lost Hüseyin Paksoyu and Serkan Altun (Serkan Altun). It is your government's responsibility that the same thing should not happen to Helin. As a government, it is your responsibility to relieve everyone who was injured there, everyone who was there as a funeral director. So, I'm particularly pointing out from the podium, and I'd like to ask that this young man be given the necessary sensitivity to begin the treatment process at once in hospital conditions. Right now, if her parents are allowed, her father will take her to the ambulance and take her to the hospital. What is not allowed at the moment is the issue of the family of Helin (Helin) to go and take Helin (Helin) to the hospital. Dear lawmakers, after stating these things -- of course, the time is a little limited, so I'll try to sum it up as much as possible -- we're dealing with a war process, a concept that was actually driven into the field with its trailers before June 7th. After June 7th, the AKP government, unfortunately with all its horrors, carried out the battle before the elections with its trailers. The plans for the collapse, the National Security Council resolutions, the concept of isolation in İmralı, and the concept of this war that we were talking about after June 7th, had only one goal: bringing AKP to power alone on November 1st, if possible, to find 330 MPs who would take it to the referendum. So, we consider these battles, which were driven to the field a slightly lighter dose before November 1st, either the first palace war or the first reigning war. After November 1st election, a more reckless war concept was introduced because the constitutional majority had not been achieved; civil settlements, unfortunately, were subject to tank shootings, cannon shootings, with 45 days of curfews. So, on November 1st, we face second reign wars, second palace wars. Now, of course, as the entire community feels the victim of these reigning wars, unfortunately, health workers are getting more and more than that. A number of combat devices, such as the AKP government for health workers, paramilitary forces, JSH, PSH, are being executed in the middle of the street, while slaughtering these workers, while on the other hand trying to justify the violence and the attempted execution of health workers by countering the real media in the AKP's ministers and orders. In fact, I'd like to leave it to the public to see what a mindset, a understanding, does to the civilian community there, a mind that shows this approach to health workers who don't respect human health. Look, we're talking about places where curfews are being imposed, but according to the World Health Organization's definition of health, being healthy is a state of biological, psychological, and social goodness. Right now in Turkey, from Istanbul to Antalya, from Tripoli to Yozgat, you can't find only one citizen who feels in a state of pure goodness, biologically, psychologically and socially. It's not natural to expect people to be at ease when the citizens of this country are dying, while the people of this country are dying, the military, the police, the young, the guerrilla, the civilian, the child. Now, this is for health workers, but since time is limited, let me just say it over a few examples. Look, dear friends, this is a photograph of our last friend, Abdulaziz Yural, who we say was injured in Cizre, mentioned here in the General Assembly, who we say must be taken to the hospital again. Abdulaziz was a representative of SES Cizre. Unfortunately, when he was on his way to the home of the injured woman who was wounded by a tank shot by security forces in the neighborhood, he was also killed by a fire fired by security forces. After the massacre of Abdulaziz (Abdulaziz), a fire was fired from the opposite side of the government and the government around him. Some of the documents, such as autopsy reports and so on, were being reported that the Abdulaziz was actually in armed conflict with the security forces, and so on and so forth, as he made clear where the fire was made and who had been massacred. What happened to Abdulaziz is a summary of what happened to the health workers there. So when we kill, when we slaughter, let's deny it, first we'll upload it to the other side. If the images show up, if the crime is exposed, if they're young, if they're like this, let's label them as PKK members and cover it up. It's his understanding. Of course, we can't possibly accept that. There's a example of Shohmuz Dursun, the example of Job Ergen, about this health care right that has been exposed to health workers for a long time. I'm not going to detail each one here, but I'd like to express the wrong explanations that both government officials and the Ministry of Health have made over and over again. Look, health rights in Turkey during your time can be easily summarized here by the condition of chronic dialysis patients or chronic cancer patients who, unfortunately, want to go to the hospital with this white flag, as a result of curfews in Turkey. So, right now, what we're dealing with is a civic fact that can't take the injured to the hospital, can't afford the funeral, can't afford the right to his health, can't find the right to bury his body. So, each of you should be ashamed and bored: If the European Court of Human Rights has to make decisions to remove a wounded person from a neighborhood in Cizre, from Cizre State Hospital, then there is no health right left in that country if there are attempts to move there first to an AIHM corridor, there is no health right left in that country, and the right to health in that country has been completely eliminated by the government's practices. Since we don't have enough time, I'm going to finish my words here. I specifically ask all the MPs of the AKP to speak for you now, and the speaker will bring up many claims. Well, let's bring up those allegations to investigate them all together. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... In support of this motion, let's all go and locate it there, and I say whoever's attacking the health workers, whoever's doing the massacre, let's all come out here together and condemn it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0190par0119	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0191par0120	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0190par0121	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0191par0122	Mr. President, in his speech, he has just made an accusation of both our group and our party. I'd like to take the liberty and respond.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0190par0123	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0191par0126	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, we've heard the June 7th elections, the November 1st elections, and then a lot of repeats here. Looks like we're gonna keep hearing it from now on. But in the time that these words are spoken to us, we will continue to speak of the truth, the truth, from the stand of our nation. Look, I want to make it very clear that I do not accept these charges, that they have absolutely nothing to do with the fact that we have repeatedly stressed that none of the 78 million members of this country, let alone the loss of their lives, the bleeding of their nose, are no more important than our political burden, than we are after June 7th, or the November 1st elections. In our country today, especially in east and southeast, Istanbul, on the other side -- no way, no way, no way, no way, no way -- is the fight against terrorism, and the killing of police while they were sleeping in their homes on June 7th, July 20th, the slaughter of a commander's family in front of a commander, and the recent attack on Diyarbakir. If this is how long the curfews last, there is only one reason: the value, the importance of the life of our civilian citizen, and the safety of our citizens in other regions, cities, neighborhoods, and from now on, in Silopi, Cizre... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is a measure taken to ensure that he survives in every region and is the fight against terrorism. In this particular, I have once again stressed that this is not a matter for any of us in any way of political economics, that our country and our nation's indivisible integrity are one of 780,000 kilometers and a struggle for the fate of living together. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0192par0134	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0193par0135	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0192par0136	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0193par0137	Mr. Orator stated that we were misinformation during his speech and that we were constantly directing perception here. He made a public taunt, and I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0194par0138	Mr. President, I want a word too.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0192par0139	Here you are, Mr. Baluken. I promise you two minutes according to 69.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0193par0141	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I believe, Mr. Group Vice President, have signed a slip of the tongue again.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0195par0143	I never threw it away.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0193par0144	So the bleeding of our citizens' noses is no more important than our political future.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0195par0145	I specifically said it again.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0193par0146	I'm a physician. I mean, slips of the tongue aren't something you simply avoid. The slip of the tongue is the reflection of the subconscious outside. That's what they teach in psychoanalysis, that's what they teach in psychiatry. So, your sentences are true, and we're saying the same thing. The middle reality is clear and clear, my friends. So, before the June 7th elections in this country, we ended a 40-year conflict, a lasting peace, a peace that may bring the Nobel Prize to the politicians we blame today, and suddenly we were dragged into a great battle of chaos. Didn't your deputies in this country, your government officials, your top ministers, say that if there was a president, they wouldn't have happened. Now you have to pay this bill. Didn't they say? After the election, after June 7th, after the solution process, you'll only be filming the film. Didn't they say? Well, that's all there is to it. I've repeatedly expressed from this bench how the table was knocked down in the process of solving, no tables, no solutions, no sides, no consensus, no monitoring committees. Well, with the confessions made by both you and your ministers in the middle, we can't call this war concept any different. And I think it would be the right approach to the solution to what the entire House would call it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0196par0150	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0197par0151	Mr. President, I'd like to make a special note.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0196par0152	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0197par0153	Look, in no way, any of our citizens' lives and safety in our country, their lives, let alone their noses bleed -- I'm saying specifically, for the record -- none of us, 550 deputies here, in any way, our party, any of us, when it comes to life, life, life -- I want to say it's on top of everything. We always say that if the unity of our country and our nation and its future and its rest go to good places, we come from a political line and tradition that says that the political future of our parties is of no importance. For him, my words... there was another meaning.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0198par0155	He knows, he knows.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0197par0156	Here's the thing: what we want to say is very clear and clear.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0199par0157	They figured it out, but it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0198par0158	He knows, but he's doing demagogues.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0200par0159	Your subconscious is opening up, and that's how it comes out.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0201par0160	We're commenting on your sentences.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0202par0161	What we're trying to do here is fight terrorism, where our citizens, especially our civilian citizens...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0203par0162	Demagogy.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0204par0163	Your subconscious is opening.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0203par0164	Yours is out in the open. Yours is out in the open, it doesn't have to come out.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0205par0165	Please, friends, if you'll allow me to finish my sentence... For no civilian citizen has been killed -- including the lack of bleeding of his nose -- our police, our gendarmes are fighting a terrorist war there.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0206par0167	Look at your subconscious.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0207par0168	Do you have consciousness, make it six?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0206par0169	There's nothing but terror in your subconscious, terror!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0208par0170	None of our futures are more than any of our citizens.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0206par0171	There's nothing but PKK in his subconscious!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0209par0172	There's nothing but ISIS.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0208par0173	Like I said, I'm telling you over and over. The future of our citizens, our country and our nation...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0209par0174	ISIS, ISIS...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0210par0175	There's nothing in your subconscious but terror, there's nothing in your subconscious but PKK.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0209par0176	Where are the killers in Niğde? What did you do with the killers in Niğde?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0210par0177	Tell me about your subconscious.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0211par0178	Guys, just a minute, please...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0212par0179	Tell your congressman, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0211par0180	Guys, no teasing from there, I'll tell you what to do.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0213par0181	He's always getting picked on there.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0212par0182	They pick on me all the time. We're trying to listen to your speech, your deputy's picking on you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0214par0183	You look behind you, Mr. Baluken, and you yell at the people behind you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0212par0184	He's answering you because you're talking.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0214par0185	Look behind you, behind you. Speak to those people, not to me. Look at your own people.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0215par0186	He talks from there, he talks from there.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0212par0187	We're listening here.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0216par0188	He talks, he talks, at least listen.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0217par0189	The future of our country and our nation is above all else. I would also like to point out that I don't find it right, that a discussion is being created, that a slip of the tongue is being created. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0218par0191	Your words have been written down. Mr. Altay, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0219par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mehmet Erdem, who was just speaking according to 60, claimed that our Aydın Metropolitan Mayor had pressured our Mayor -- who is also a co-host -- our Mayor -- to use one of Turkey's most modern market sites in the region as a coal warehouse, and that coal dust was disturbing the community. We asked our mayor for information, we asked for explanations. Here's the thing: three years ago, because of an air opposition, the coal that needed to be distributed to the poor was found at that market very short-lived, piled up there. This happened three years ago, Mr. Mehmet Erdem. Plus, the mention, the bet was just two weeks ago at the market. Is there an agricultural fair in the coal warehouse? I don't know where Your Grace is.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0220par0198	I'm here, I'm here.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0219par0199	Mr. Erdem, is there an agricultural fair in the coal warehouse?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0220par0200	That answer is not true.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0219par0201	I don't know. In addition, our building in Aydın Fatih neighborhood is owned by our Metropolitan Municipality, and I want to underline that. There are no known problems between this chief and our mayor of the city. If our mayor's taken something... our mayor is now inviting our headman to tea. But, by the way, Mr. Mehmet, no matter how many times you search on the floor of Aydın Metropolitan Mayor's office -- with three inspector's rooms -- you will find nothing stained in Aydın Metropolitan Municipality. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0221par0206	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0222par0207	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0221par0208	Mr. Crazy Eyes, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0222par0209	Don't make fun of me.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0221par0210	What tease? What kind of teasing?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0222par0211	Without a conscience. He said, "Don't be unconscionable." No, I'm not unconscionable. No, you're unconscionable. I'll make a statement for a minute.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0221par0212	Mr. Crazy-Eye, I listened to Mr. Bauken very carefully, first and foremost. Mr. Baluken has answered you, Mr. Crazy Eye, after you spoke to Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0222par0213	I didn't say anything. I said our security forces fired on the armed terrorist. Eli to the armed terrorist... our security forces don't fire on anyone who isn't armed... and when they're wrongly reported and directed by security forces, they shower bullets on the ambulance when it's gone.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0221par0214	Mr. Crazy Eyes, I'd like to ask you to step aside for a moment...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0222par0215	There's holes everywhere, ambulances can't make it.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0221par0216	I haven't given you my word yet, Mr. Crazy Eyes. I'll give you my word on your position for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0223par0220	Mr. President, thank you. Dear friends, I have informed the speaker that the armed forces, our security forces, are the cause of the shooting, that the target across the street has a weapon. Because everything they say is a lie, everyone knows it, Turkey knows it. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We're on the side of peace, so don't let the children die. We agree, I'm in charge of the word, I'm in charge. I just gave my daughter to Diyarbakir, the center of Diyarbakır, we've engaged, we're going to have a wedding in spring. We have no exceptions, Mr. President. Anyone can be sure of that. Those who know me know what kind of conscience I have, all of Turkey knows. Please, I demand that he take back what he said and apologize. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0224par0224	Thank you, Mr. Crazy Eyes.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0225par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0224par0226	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0225par0227	He said I was lying, he made an obvious taunt, I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0224par0228	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0226par0229	Mr. President, from your position!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0227par0230	In position!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0224par0231	According to 69, I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0228par0234	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs here have made a statement that is worse than an apology. Velev, so that what you're saying is true...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0229par0236	That's right, we don't lie! You're the one who lies day and night!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0228par0237	There's no such thing as a young man with a gun waiting for an ambulance, but there's no such thing, and that's what's gonna happen.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0230par0238	What the hell did you do? You can't be such a liar! You're lying before your face turns red!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0231par0239	He's lying. Stop saying that. Show some respect!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0228par0240	...in accordance with your legal code and according to international law, don't you know how to treat the injured there under what law? How did you become a congressman?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0232par0241	I'll say one sentence.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0228par0242	A sentence for what?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0232par0243	Call the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to drop the gun, and I will resign as MP!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0233par0244	Put the gun down, put the gun down.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0228par0245	A wounded person's sentence cannot be passed by the security force there, or executed there.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0232par0246	Call the PKK to drop the gun, and I will resign before you, I promise!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0234par0247	Please, let's hear it, Congressmans.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0232par0248	Call the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to drop the gun, I will resign from the parliament!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0235par0249	Don't talk, don't talk! You're gonna teach us what to do?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0236par0250	If he is injured, it is the duty of the security force there to bring him in and bring him to the hospital for health care, to bring him to justice, even if he committed a crime, even if he committed it.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0232par0251	You're acting with gun power!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0237par0252	Do not put your backs to the PKK!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0232par0253	Without those guns, you wouldn't be a deputy!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0238par0254	Mr. Crazy Eyes, please listen.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0239par0255	Therefore, an understanding of the way you say an approach is both unlawful and openly unconscionable.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0232par0256	What you're doing is unconscionable!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0240par0257	You are the greatest without a conscience!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0241par0258	Learn to listen!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0242par0259	Mr. Botan, please take your seat.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0243par0260	No matter who's hurt...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0244par0261	You're putting a bomb under a funeral on the floor!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0243par0262	...no matter the state of the funeral on the ground, the security force's authority is clear, its mission is clear, it can't have any other attitude.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0245par0263	Not without an apology!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0243par0264	Your explanation is the government's approach. That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0245par0265	You're going to apologize!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0243par0266	And we've been saying from the beginning, to the wounded and to the funerals...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0246par0267	You put bombs under funerals.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0243par0268	Under the name of a special cover, there's a mindset that sends everyone -- in the nail -- to die under the guise of a terrorist. And with your explanation, you've shown how accurate that is.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0247par0269	You said you were trained in psychology, you're practicing psychological warfare here.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0243par0270	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0248par0272	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0247par0273	Mr. President, he didn't apologize. I don't count that.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0243par0274	What am I supposed to apologize for?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0249par0275	What an apology!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0247par0276	Of course you're going to apologize, you have to! You insult me, you apologize!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0250par0277	Mr. Crazy Eyes, Mr. Crazy Eyes...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0251par0278	Come, come, come. What am I supposed to apologize for? You have no conscience. What am I supposed to apologize for?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0247par0279	I'll come, can't I? What do you mean, come? You're gonna go out there and apologize! You are the greatest without a conscience!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0251par0280	Sit down, sit down!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit02spe0252par0281	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit03spe0252par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue our discussion of the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Now, the first speech against the group's proposal belongs to Mr. Kadir Koçdemir. Mr. Coachdemir, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit03spe0253par0010	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute your delegation with respect and conversation. I immediately need to remind all my speeches: This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; Turkey's law-making, law-making place, and those present must also use a legal, legal language. In this regard, according to the laws of the Republic of Turkey and international institutions and many states, the PKK, the terrorist organization and its members are terrorists. In this case, the use of the word "gerilla" that means so much different in international law is not consistent with the nature and nature of this environment and parliament. The same is true of the word "warfare." War is a matter between the two states, and it may be possible to call the practices of domestic security in a country, but it shouldn't be possible under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Honourable lawmakers, many dramas, many tragedies, many tragedies have happened at the end of the path of good faith. To express this, we have a beautiful proverb, which says: "The sorsas show the victim to the tyrant himself. " The events of today's research motion are sad events, but it is also the equivalent of this proverb. The first time I came to the Parliament on June 7th, there are debates about these events almost every day, and it is allegedly caused by the interruption of these events, not the outcome of the solution process. We think the solution process was a process that was contrary to both history and democracy, it was a process of betrayal, it was obvious that it would come here, and we said that before this started, unfortunately, we were right. I'm pretty sure that if there was a device to measure the love of the country, the love of the home, like the tools that measure the blood pressure, especially my fellow lawmakers here, we'd be able to put that device on each of our arms and make the needle last. However, good intentions and love are sometimes not enough. That's why he gave mankind something called God's name, a science called history. Some of my peers have meningitis. My wife, my daughters-in-law, there's been a dispute between brides and mother-in-laws about whether the boy with the fever should be wrapped in a blanket or not. Our mothers or women who didn't have that knowledge before her are people whose love for their children cannot be questioned. I suppose the most important love between two people is the love between the mother and her cub. But when the fever rises, it does not harm the rich, not knowing that it is necessary to reduce its temperature, but because of what he hears, it can also cause permanent damage. That's what's coming today. The process of solutions and betrayal can be understood that way in the least, but now it's misunderstood. This process is an anti-historic process because it contradicts the fact that our thousand-year brotherhood is a sociological phenomenon, not biological. This process is against history because it is also an insult to the sons of those who have made volunteer queues in Diyarbakır, Bismil, Silvan, and Mardin's military branches in 1974. Again, this process is against history. Again, it is an insult to the forces of Alexander who were sent to Alexander in the War of Cyprus, and to the mothers who were thrown at the soft, and to the mothers who were cooked with slanders because they could not stop. This process is also an anti-democracy process because in democracy, people are not allowed and are not allowed to represent elements such as naturalized sex, ethnic origin. In democracy, you form parties, such as environmentalism, feminism, social democracy, the representation of the world's views, such as nationalism. But people are not prisoners of the origin, of the province they were born in, of the city they were born in, and what's accepted today is that one of the easiest ways to violate human rights is group rights. If you sit down with a political party representing all the people living in one part of the country, it means you haven't learned or understood democracy well. Today, this process seems to be blocked, but again our memory and the date we have to learn from warn us about something. We've seen this movie before. When there were no terrorist incidents before 2005, the complaint was said to be only death, and the incidents began. In 2012, a serious fight against terrorism was waged. In December 2012 -- our friends who are here will remember -- when he held the group meeting at the party building, not the parliament, he wanted the death penalty returned and all immunity files brought back to parliament, but then a few months later, we looked up and the terrorists were greeted with greetings. Is this today's boat-wrecker fight, keeping this whole agenda busy in Syria, so that Turkey will never return to the equation that had already been established in the fulfillment of the terrorist leader's fantasy, the canton and democratic federation? That's what we'll see in the next few days. I'd like to address the conscience of all my fellow lawmakers: Please, let's look at history and not pretend we don't know anything because history punishes those who don't learn from it most. Let's start together as long as the state is a state that embraces the Turkish nation as proud and honored members of every member of this land, especially the security function of the state, and completes all of its functions, but in addition to our experience, mind and love, let's bring the information into play. From this point of view, as I said yesterday, we are opposed to this proposal, which we think will do no more than scratch the present wound, and I salute the High Assembly with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit03spe0254par0022	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. Second speaker in favour of the group's proposal, Antalya MP Niyazi Nefi Kara. Mr. Kara, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit03spe0255par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge in favour of HDP's group proposal. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear friends, I'd like to begin my talk by conveying the impressions of our investigations in Diyarbakır on January 11, 2016, along with our friends, Professor Nurettin Demir, Dr. Cetin Arık, Dr. Ali Şeker, Dr. Murat Emir and Orhan Sarıbal. My dear friends, we began our visit to Diyarbakir, where we attended the funeral of our soldiers who lost their lives in the fighting. Our goal to get there was to investigate what could be done in order to ensure peace and peace in the region, to investigate allegations that have been reflected in the media and social media in the region, and to determine the status of public health services. However, on our way out of peace and quiet, we received news of funerals and attended martyr funerals. I want to repeat the words of our martyr's family here, still ringing in our ears: I am Kurd, and my son is Kurd. The dead are Kurds and the killer is Kurds. We belong to the Republic of Turkey, our country, our nation. They said, "Don't let our children hurt each other." Earlier, after this visit, we made a statement to the press, and we made him listen. For once, I would like to ask this chair to repeat this request: our responsibility is great, and the only solution is the Great National Assembly of Turkey. Once again, I ask all our martyrs God's mercy and patience for their families and our nation. As part of a review of health workers and public health problems in Diyarbakır, we also visited the Military Hospital, the Governorate, Dicle University Medical Faculty Hospital, the relevant NGOs, the State Health Department, and the activities of health workers who have been acting there for a month, life against death, and the act of black and white. And I salute them again from here. Dear friends, we've seen the public and the security forces here, they're all depressed. Everyone's anxious, everyone's nervous. We've made that clear. In particular, the civilian public is concerned that this pressure will bring a break and that the public's relationship with the state and the confidence in the state will be damaged. We've also visited the hospital where the injured security forces say they're reluctant to perform the treatments of health personnel in the press. That's why they said the hospitals left. The governor said that there was no such distinction, because it was close to the military hospital, that the patients, the wounded, were directed here because it was close to it. We also saw this when we visited University Hospital, but our colleagues there and many other public officials we saw told us it wasn't so. We need to confirm that from here one more time. However, this understanding, which has made health workers targets in social media and in some advocacy media, needs to be prevented as soon as possible. We strongly condemn that understanding. These affect not only the health workers but also the health of our security forces and our people who serve in the region, causing morale. Unacceptable. On our visit to the Dicle University Medical School Hospital, we saw one of our wounded citizens shot playing in Cizre and two of our children injured after the sound bomb explosion in Sur. Our wish is that we have the last of our children to be hit by bullets. We've had one-on-one contact with our staff and physician colleagues and administrators here. It is our belief that trying to outshine hospital personnel with heavy accusations and self - sacrificing efforts under difficult circumstances, day and night, by ignoring their efforts to provide health care, is a result of political and wrong policies towards the region and personnel. Since the beginning of the shootings, dozens of health workers have been detained in the area. There have been attacks on health workers, hospitals, ambulances. Four medical personnel who went to help the wounded were killed in the attacks. In our talks with NGOs in Diyarbakır, we have seen that three family health centres have been closed for 40 days, that protective vaccines have not been made, that the citizens have had serious problems in receiving health care. No trace of chronic diseases, no birth and postpartum health care. We also had reports that family health centers would be turned into police stations, so the neighborhoods would be evacuated. The State Health Directorate said it wasn't like that, but a day after us, Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivmi said it, we'll build outposts in the region. Later, in the health centre of the Turkish Medical Association, who followed us to visit the region, said that our security guards still said that they had not evacuated? I hope that doesn't happen. There are no other proper buildings in the region that will serve us as health centers. We say that more quality health care should go there, not police stations. Although it was announced in official numbers as six, we found that there was actually a curfew in 15 neighborhoods. About 25 people weren't connected to the outside, guys. We talked to the chiefs there, too. They personally expressed that they could not reach the people and their families in the neighborhood, that they had no communication whatsoever, that they had suffered a great deal of anxiety. We understand that the security forces can't reach these neighborhoods either. It is evident in a region where children have no vaccines, where people with chronic diseases can't go to the hospital and be treated, where curfews have been held for fifty days. We've paged before. Once again, I tell Mr. President that instead of hosting the chiefs every week in the runaway palace, you will send instructions to direct politics from there, you will once call in the neighborhood chiefs of this area -- Surûn, Cizren, and Silopi. Let's see if it's all as pink as you guys are talking to your ally media mics. If they can't communicate with their families, they'll tell you whether they're alive, hungry, thirsty, sick, and if they don't make peace immediately, and everyone is treated like terrorists, they'll really be left at the mercy of the terrorist organization. We want to carry the hope that you will listen to the voice of these people. Really, the government doesn't control the events there, dear friends. We've been there, we've seen it in place, and the neighborhoods aren't being cleaned. The boy who lost his life, and they can't give him the number of civilians, and you can't. You have no idea what those people are going through. According to information from NGOs in Diyarbakır, six civilians have lost their lives in the curfew in the region since 11 December, including two children. Since the beginning of curfews, we have lost a total of 165 civilians in five months, including 30 women, 33 children, 24 people over 60 years of age.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit03spe0256par0040	Mr. Kara, I'll give you one more minute to wrap this up.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit03spe0255par0041	Dear friends, they showed us a picture there, a picture of a kid in elementary school who couldn't go to school; there were tanks around the playground, there were guns. Imagine that these children will carry the trauma for life. The locals aren't expecting new outposts. On the contrary, the state needs its compassion, its services, and there's nothing human about a 50-day curfew. Dear friends, we will not be able to breathe freely here as long as our citizens in the region are banned from freedom and shackles are shot. Health, housing, education and the right of every citizen to live in peace in a free, democratic country. We have to fight this fight together, and that's why I'm telling the AKP's MPs to come and support the commission for the region. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit03spe0257par0046	Thank you, Mr. Kara. The final speaker against the group's proposal is Kütahya MP Mr. Vural Katuncu. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit03spe0258par0049	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the HDP investigation motion. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, it is the most natural and natural duty of a state to ensure public order and trust. Today, our country is in a really difficult position in the face of unwanted events, and a Middle Eastern geography may be taking on significant events that will fall down in history, and in a case like this, there is a number of operations that we all know are going on in order to ensure that our security forces live in a more comfortable, secure way for our people to live. To make these operations look like a war among the people, to make it look like an incident against a people there is pure terror propaganda. We strongly deny it. Look, of course, peace should not remain a promise, nor should children die, nor should our people there live in safety. But as a way of doing that, if you show us the pits, if you show us the so-called governments, the canton models, of course we can't accept them. As the state of the Republic of Turkey, we have the desire and desire to live here with the values of thousands of years of civilization and common culture, as we own an understanding and politics that cannot in any way alter one individual over another, that does not cause any separation. Look, the negative events that are happening here are affecting the public, and it's affecting the health workers. I, at this point, would like to express my gratitude and gratitude to all the medical staff who have been here on altruistic mission. Here, in fact, the incident where health workers are victims is not the curfew here, but the terrorist activities that require more curfew there, and our health workers are deeply affected by it. Look, we've had a lot of mission-wielding medical personnel that we've lost over the last year alone. Of course, not everything is mentioned. For example, there is no mention of Dr. Abdullah Bison here. After the massacre, our colleague, the so-called terrorist organization spokesman, apologized to themselves, and said, "It was a mistake, it was an accident, I'm sorry." The person they said was a worker's child, a Kurdish citizen, a colleague of ours, who came from Diyarbakır Dicle, completed his education under difficult circumstances, and I will go here to serve people in my district. And again, health officer Eyup Ergen. Yeah, he gets cut off on the way to a crime scene in an ambulance, and he gets slaughtered, not enough, but two of his people are being abducted by a terrorist organization. Actually, we have very long lists. I'd still like to tell you a few of these. We have armed attacks on our ambulances and our medical personnel. An ambulance belonging to Emergency Health Services in Mardin district of Mardin province in August. In September, Diyarbakır was 9 No. To our ambulance at emergency health services in September, Şırnak Central 1st. The ambulance I mentioned earlier in September in Şırnak Beytüşşebap. In December, Şırnak Central 1st. Our ambulance was also attacked in January -- just recently -- by armed attacks on our ambulance at Şırnak 112 Control Center. Our ambulances are under attack not only by armed attacks but by stones, Molotovs, rocket launchers... Our ambulance at Mardin Artuklu Emergency Health Services, Van Özalp Twenty rocket launchers have been fired on our staff serving at Cizre State Hospital. Now, right now, an ambulance has just been mentioned to one of our citizens in Cizre that the ambulance can't be reached. An ambulance can't reach a citizen named Helen. It's true. Why can't he get through? He's got ditchs in front of him, ditch after ditch... sick relatives wanted, no answer. It is possible that there is no response under the threats of members of the terrorist organization again because the script is ready: he will not respond, the ambulance will not reach the injured, and this will be used as political abuse and propaganda. That's all there is to it.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit03spe0259par0057	Well said!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit03spe0258par0058	Look, let's talk about the abductions, and now the government's doing all this? We're gonna dial our own ambulance, we're gonna shoot it, we're gonna take the paramedics inside, we're gonna take them to a place where we can take them; is that a thing? Erzurum Tekman has been taken to the ambulance and crew in Diyarbakır again in July, and in August 112 ambulances in Hakakari, Diyarbakır Lice ambulances in August; Şırnak, Bitlis, Diyarbakır, ambulances in Diyarbakır are being detained, and part of them, staff... look, on December 2, 112 ambulances and crews are being stopped by members of the terrorist organization. The kidnapped ambulance is being delivered on December 4th, with medical supplies stored in it. In December, our ambulance belonging to Şırnak 112 was abducted by members of the terrorist organization again, the team was taken down on the road, the ambulance is still in the hands of the terrorist organization. On January 10, 2016, our ambulance belonging to Mardin Demirtaş 112 is abducted by members of the terrorist organization, medical supplies are taken from the ambulance, ambulances are left on the side of the road. Threats, blackmail, all over the place. At this point, we are having considerable difficulty bringing effective health care here with our medical staff. Scare our teams, psychologically suppress them in a variety of ways, and with the failure of this service at this point, the terrorist organization is actually severely persecuted by its own people, the people that it says represent them there and protects them. So, we say that if there is a matter of peace, let's talk about health care, not the terror events of health staff, but the rights of healthcare members, the conditions for better health care to work under better conditions, for better conditions to serve. We, Edirne, from İstanbul to Diyarbakır, from Hakkari, are eager to provide the most qualified health care in every corner of the country. That's where we build our facilities, and whatever's here, we're taking every precaution to get access to those services. Come on, let's talk about it. Do not get blood and violence on the edges of the Hevsel Gardens in Diyarbakır. We, citizens of all countries, will live in peace and brotherhood with our people as equals. Look, there are a lot of Kurdish lawmakers here, and there are members of the AK PARTI Group here, among all the other groups. One day we didn't wonder who belonged to the Kurd, who belonged to the Turk, and who belonged to another ethnic foundation, we didn't question it. We view them as a wealth of our own that can only be a subject of conversation amongst ourselves. At this point, we condemn and disapprove of terror against healthcare workers who are associated with health workers in the east and southeast. Our government will continue its work here until the terrorist incidents of the prevention of service are resolved, and until it is given the opportunity for our health staff to perform the necessary tasks safely and safely. At this point, I'm saying we can't accept this motion. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit03spe0260par0066	Thank you, Mr. Cantaloupe. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis that I'll have you read and vote: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkish Parliament Speaker Mr. İsmail Kahraman and his delegation will visit Iraq to join the 11th General Assembly of the Islamic Co-operation Organization (İSIPAB), which will be held in Baghdad from 23 January to 25 January 2016, under the 9th Amendment of Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand Assembly of Turkey, under the 9th Amendment of the General Assembly of Turkey. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who agree... Those who don't agree... Appointment accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0260par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Justice and Development Party Deputy Chair Bkent Turan and Çanakkale MP Ayhan Yaz, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 23 MPs; Plan and Budget Commission Report, where we left off talking about the amendments to some Laws. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Members of parliament, the last joint was adopted Article 7 of the bill. Now, there are three motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 68 rankings of income tax law and the draft law for amendments in some laws (1/517) and the Justice and Development Party's Deputy Chair of Justice and Development Group Bkent Turan and Çanakkale MP Ayhan Güzer, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 23 MPs; We propose and propose that the 8th amendment of Article (2/434) be changed in the following way. Bulent Kuşoğlu Tule Karbük Mahmut Tanal Seyit Torun Musa Pine Uður Bayraktutan Article 152 of Article III-Reparations of Article 657 The submarines (1) and (11) of the section (a) of the department of Security Services (D) have been changed in the following way. ▪ 1. 49% for the Chief Constable, 2. One of the members of the First Class Security Directorate: Deputy Director, Chairman of the Inspection Board, Chief of Special Security Control, Police Academy President, Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir to 36% of the police commissioners, - The head of the apartment, I. Attorney General, 33% for the other County Police Commissioners, - 269 percent for the others, 3. 244% of those assigned to the Second Class Security Directorate staff, 4. 231% of those assigned to the Third Class Security Directorate staff, 5. 29% of those assigned to the Fourth Class Security Directorate staff, 6. 189% of those assigned to the Police Department staff, Seven. For those assigned to the captain's staff, 173%, 8. 164% for the commissioner's staff, Nine. For those assigned to the sergeant's staff, 158% of the time, 10. From the others: - From 1, 2, 3 and 4 degrees to 153% per month, - Five, six and seven degrees to 144% per month; - 8, 9, 10 and 11 degrees to 133% per month, 11. 95% for the market and the neighborhood watchmen," Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework 8 article of the current 68 rows of the Bill of Law shall be changed in the following way. Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Günal Erhan Usta Erkan Haberal Desire Erdem Mehmet Parsak Baki Simsek İsmail Faruk Aksu The section of Article 152 of Law 8-657 has been changed in the following way. EDUCATION, SCHOOL PRODUCTION Teachers in the Education and Teaching Services Class are actually teachers in the titles; [[One of the members of the teacher's titles includes the school principal, the assistant principal, the administrator and the training expert, and the teachers who work in prison schools.]] A) 150 per cent for monthly areas of 1-2 degrees, B) From the 3rd and 4th degrees to the 140 percent monthly area, c) 130 per cent of the other degrees per month, The members of the National Ministry of Education's vocational and technical education, school and institutions, as teachers of the school, lab or vocational courses, as well as the members of the Council of Ministers, who will be appointed as teachers and teachers, as well as those who will be assigned to the school, institution and majors; A) For those who have learned four years or more, 50% of the time, B) 45% for three and two years of higher education, A) To those who have won the title of head teacher, 90%, B) For those who have earned the title of expert teacher, According to the first joke of this chapter (a), (b) and (c), the members of other classes who work in the central and rural ministry of education and are part of this Law, according to the first joke (a) and (c) dams of this department in exchange for the degree they are in exchange for the degree they are in. 1. 420 percent for the Chief Constable. 2. One of the members of the First Class Security Directorate: - Vice General Director, President of the Investigation Board, President of the Police Academy, 36% for Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir Security Directors - The head of the apartment, I. Legal Counsel, other County Police Commissioners, Police University Director, POMEM Director, PMEM Director, Police College Director and Protection Directors, 340 percent of them, - 300 percent for the others, 3. For those assigned to the Second Class Security Directorate staff, 4. 232% of those assigned to the Third Class Security Directorate staff, 5. For those assigned to the fourth-grade police department, 220 percent of them, 6. For those assigned to the Chief of Police, Seven. For those assigned to the captain's staff, 185%, 8. For those assigned to the sergeant's staff, 170 percent, Nine. For those assigned to the sergeant's staff, 16% of the time, 10. 155% for those assigned to the Senior Chief of Staff, 11. For those assigned to the Chief Constable's staff, 12. From the police officers: - 1, 2, 3 and 4 degrees to 148% per month. - From 5, 6 and 7 degrees to 143% per month, - From 8th and 9th to 138 percent per month, - From the 10th and 11th degrees to the 133% monthly range, 13. 100 percent for the market and the neighborhood watchmen, 14. A) The mandatory service area is also available to 40 per cent of those who are active in the provinces, B) Special Ops, Security, Traffic and Riot Force units, as well as 25 per cent of those who are actually in charge of police headquarters," Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Law Bill 68 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Suryet Taşdemir Çağlar Demirel Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0261par0091	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0260par0092	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0262par0093	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0260par0094	On the motion, Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep... [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Toğrül, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0263par0097	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group to increase the level 25 per cent of the security services rates they are taking advantage of under Article 657, according to Article 152. On this occasion, I salute you all. The public salary, non-integrated regulations in the wage regime are causing great unrest for public employees who are not getting paid. The public wage regime must be considered for all employees and to be brought to a level that can sustain their lives. Everyone knows that AKP governments do not take the collective contract system seriously, that they single-handedly set up the arrangements on the collective contract table with the amendments to the law. The collective contract talks are completely transformed into a theatre with a collaborative union co-operation. The government, who withholds everything from the worker, is unacceptable that the rights and interests of those outside the scope of collective agreements are far above the popular increases of public workers at the collective contract table. This approach makes no sense to the collective contract table and its system. So it also leads to development of non-union. The government is trying to terrorize all rights and demands of public workers within 657, trying to shut down their search for rights. Those who demand rights are faced with gas, baton, pressure water, which is unbecoming to a democratic country. Those involved in trade union activities, those demanding rights, are being investigated, intimidated, exposed to a mobbin, and even often face exiles. Why, then, is the AKP government doing its increase in opportunities to other public officials, including police, gendarmes, private military members, and high-level judiciary members? This is in line with AKP's war policies today because the AKP is preparing for a war and is providing these increases to all of these groups, the police, the gendarmes, and even the judicial members who will be involved in the war during this war. The main goal here is to send these people, these security guards, into battle, and prepare them psychologically to die, to kill. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you know, there's been a notice before that the gendarmes should not refuse to use their weapons. So you, the Constitution, when you go outside the law, when you kill, when you kill, when you kill children, young people, women, you will have no sanction whatsoever. So this is a product of AKP's war policy. Today, we, the People's Democratic Party, do not approve of this law, which imposes ununion while our people, those who demand it, are facing all kinds of challenges, violence, and their most basic human needs are not met. This law is the law of pre-war psychology in Turkey, which should be known. It is only for the benefit of those who benefit from war, and it is not for the benefit of the gendarmes or the police. It's just a psychological effect. That's the way to put it, you have to be aware of that. And it's in all of our best interests to see Kurdish children die in this war, the death of Kurd women, preventing our young people from falling to the ground. Again, my compliments to you all by reminding you that the peace table is the best way to begin the solution process.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0264par0105	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0265par0106	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0264par0107	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0265par0108	During his speech, Mr. Orator said something like the war of the AK PARTY, the government of the State of War. I'd like to take your word for bullying.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0264par0109	Here you go, Mr. Turan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0265par0114	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. All the public witnesses have been trying to maintain an agenda on yesterday's polemics since morning. We try to be patient, saying, "Let our law be passed, and let the laws of our society be passed at once." But patience has its limits, its place. We've drawn the gold, and I'll say it again: the matter in the East upsets all of us. Martyrs are our martyrs, but there's never a war in the East; there's a war on terrorists, there's a war on terror, there's a fight on terror, and that determination will never slow down until terror is over. You don't need to study sociology, you don't need to study psychology, so if you have a gun, the government will do it. You don't need to know much. If you've got a gun, the government will do it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So, again, I'm going to say this: the matter of the east cannot be brought here with very adolescent attitudes, with different approaches, with paper, with slogans, with Kurdish issues. We called it a solution, we made a bet, we were betrayed. We've shown our every kind of goodwill, we've prayed, we've failed. Those who wronged us that day cannot say that there is war in the east today. This soldier, this policeman, with this nation's tax, continues to fight terrorism for the sake of this nation, and will go on to the end. If you intend to speak against so many soldiers, against the police, speak against terror for once. Sing it for us against the Holy Father of Assad, and we will give you all a round of applause. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0266par0120	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0267par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0266par0122	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0267par0123	During the speech, the speaker accused our group of exhibiting adolescent behavior, openly picking on us.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0266par0124	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. I'll give you two minutes...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0267par0127	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm going to explain to you today and yesterday whether there was a war there. We have just received word from Cizre concerning the ambulance and the transport of the Helin pioneer to the hospital. Now, unfortunately, they've been subjected to a new massacre, with three female friends who have gone to pick up the wounded, including information from the district officials there, within the knowledge of the Cizre police. Right now, we don't know what the fate of those three female citizens is. In the same way, look, the delegation, including our congressman yesterday, went to pick up the body...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0268par0132	He's gone to get the terrorists.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0269par0133	Which wounded one? He's gone to terrorists, terrorists!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0267par0134	...and three times from the Ministry of the Interior, despite instructions from here, yesterday, our Councillor Abdulhamit Koçal and Selman Erdogan were murdered. So he got to the point where he went to pick up the wounded, went to pick up the body, started coming back as a wounded body. How is that counterterrorism? What part of that can you legitimize here? It's clearly...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0268par0135	He went to pick up the terrorist's body.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0267par0136	No matter who gets a funeral, you get a funeral. If you still don't understand this as a universal rule of law, as a traditional human value, we have nothing to say to you. But all the funerals there belong to civilian people, civil citizens. So instead of covering up these mistakes and having different perception operations, here's what I've been telling you, look into this information, and let's talk to the council. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0270par0139	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the current 68 Orders Numbered Law Bill shall be changed in the following way. Mehmet Erdoğan (Muğla) and his friends The section of Article 152 of Law 8-657, under Article 152, has been changed as follows: "Education, Teaching Compensation" and "Reparation for Security Services." "B-Education, Education Teachers in the Education and Teaching Services Class are actually teachers in the titles; [[One of the members of the teacher's titles includes the school principal, the assistant principal, the administrator and the training expert, and the teachers who work in prison schools.]] A) 150 per cent for monthly areas of 1-2 degrees, B) From the 3rd and 4th degrees to the 140 percent monthly area, c) 130 per cent of the other degrees per month, The members of the National Ministry of Education's vocational and technical education, school and institutions, as teachers of the school, lab or vocational courses, as well as the members of the Council of Ministers, who will be appointed as teachers and teachers, as well as those who will be assigned to the school, institution and majors; A) For those who have learned four years or more, 50% of the time, B) 45% for three and two years of higher education, A) To those who have won the title of head teacher, 90%, B) For those who have earned the title of expert teacher, According to the first joke of this chapter (a), (b) and (c), the members of other classes who work in the central and rural ministry of National Education and are part of this Law in exchange for the degree they are in. 1. 420 percent for the Chief Constable. 2. One of the members of the First Class Security Directorate: - Vice General Director, President of the Investigation Board, President of the Police Academy, 36% for Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir Security Directors - The head of the apartment, I. Legal Counsel, other County Police Commissioners, Police University Director, POMEM Director, PMEM Director, Police College Director and Protection Directors, 340 percent of them, - 300 percent for the others, 3. For those assigned to the Second Class Security Directorate staff, 4. 232% of those assigned to the Third Class Security Directorate staff, 5. For those assigned to the fourth-grade police department, 220 percent of them, 6. For those assigned to the Chief of Police, Seven. For those assigned to the captain's staff, 185%, 8. For those assigned to the sergeant's staff, 170 percent, Nine. For those assigned to the sergeant's staff, 16% of the time, 10. 155% for those assigned to the Senior Chief of Staff, 11. For those assigned to the Chief Constable's staff, 12. From the police officers: - From 1, 2, 3 and 4 degrees to 148% per month, - From 5, 6 and 7 degrees to 143% per month, - From 8th and 9th to 138 percent per month, - From the 10th and 11th degrees to the 133% monthly range, 13. 100 percent for the market and the neighborhood watchmen, 14. A) The mandatory service area is also available to 40 per cent of those who are active in the provinces, B) Special Ops, Security, Traffic and Riot Force units, as well as 25 per cent of those who are actually in charge of police headquarters," Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0271par0187	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0270par0188	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0272par0189	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0270par0190	Mr. Mehmet Erdogan, MP of Muğla on the motion...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0273par0192	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made in Article 8 of Law Bill 68 that we are discussing. I hereby salute your high council. As we begin with my words, I wish our heroic security forces, who have served for the peace of our nation and the rest of our state throughout our country, well done. As for those who drink from it, it is with mercy and grace, and I ask for mercy from Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and I wish for good things to come to our veterans. Of course, the motion that we've made in this article is that the government has only brought some improvements to the police situation, to their compensations, and we've made a motion to improve the situation of our teachers in the same article, and to increase the compensation of our police a little bit more. In order to support our friends in these difficult situations, we want to support our motion first. After that, of course, there was a decree issued under Code 666 in November 2011. With this decree, the public's pay balance has been confused. Now that the police have had a lot of privileges in themselves, the people who do the same work are getting paid differently. First of all, we don't need this kind of bag of law... we need a bill of law to renegotiate the rights of the entire police. What do you need it for? Today, the first request of the police, the manager of the estate, the doctor, the health workers, the teachers from the government is not a three-cent raise in compensation; their first request is a right to retirement. Here, you know, in the following article, everyone will now sing in choirs. Here we are, increasing additional indicators, correcting police pensions. Mr. Secretary, do you have any idea how much the police's pension is going up with the new additive you've brought in?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0274par0197	40 lira.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0275par0198	Like you're kidding.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0273par0199	I mean, how can the police trust you? Since the 2011 election, we will correct police pension. What's wrong with the police right now? Retired police are forced to receive even half of the salary they receive while working, and the same is true of property managers. We've told this to Mr. Home Secretary, the Interior Commission, the government over and over again. The judges, the prosecutors, and the managers of the estate work under the same conditions, and bring their rights to the same place. We said, "You didn't do that either." Now the same goes for doctors. These things have to be fixed. Now, dear friends, again, I'd like to say a few words about the recent events. When the AKP came to power in 2002, it accused the current security forces of unsolved crimes, or something, and launched investigations into many of them. After that, he pretended to fight terrorism in 2007, in 2008, followed by Oslo talks, the Habur scandal. Similar things happened in 2012, police were driven to the front again, soldiers were driven to the front, and then the solution process began. Now, everyone shouts in choirs: "We will fight until terror is over." Yesterday, Mr. President was speaking in the muhtar assembly, saying, "We will not meet with the PKK (Zinhar), the Imralı (Imralı) and his extended political party." Friends, our police are so... you have abused the feelings of our security forces. It's those loud words that make us suspicious again. Stand by your promises on this matter, and do not prepare for a new U-turn that will put our police on the spot tomorrow. With these feelings, I demand that the rights of our police be changed as they wish, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0276par0203	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 68 rankings of income tax law and the draft law for amendments in some laws (1/517) and the Justice and Development Party's Deputy Chair of Justice and Development Group Bkent Turan and Çanakkale MP Ayhan Güzer, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 23 MPs; We propose and propose that the 8th amendment of Article (2/434) be changed in the following way. Uğur Bayraktutan (Artvin) and his friends Article 152 of Article III-Reparations of Article 657 The submarines (1) and (11) of the section (a) of the department of Security Services (D) have been changed in the following way. ▪ 1. 49% for the Chief Constable, 2. One of the members of the First Class Security Directorate: Deputy Director, Chairman of the Inspection Board, Chief of Special Security Control, Police Academy President, Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir to 356 per cent of the police commissioners, - The head of the apartment, I. Legal Counsel, 331% for other County Police Commissioners, - 269 percent for the others, 3. 244% of those assigned to the Second Class Security Directorate staff, 4. 231% of those assigned to the Third Class Security Directorate staff, 5. 29% of those assigned to the Fourth Class Security Directorate staff, 6. 189% of those assigned to the Police Department staff, Seven. 173% of those assigned to the captain's staff, 8. 164% for the commissioner's staff, Nine. For those assigned to the sergeant's staff, 158% of the time, 10. From the others: - From 1, 2, 3 and 4 degrees to 153% per month, - Five, six and seven degrees to 144% per month; - 8, 9, 10 and 11 degrees to 133% per month, 11. 95% for the market and the neighborhood watchmen," Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0277par0230	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0276par0231	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0278par0232	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0276par0233	Mr. Ugur Bayraktutan, MP of Artvin on the motion.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0279par0235	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 8th Amendment of Law Bill 68, which has been discussed. I salute your high council. At first, I was surprised that the Minister of National Education was sitting in the lines of the Commission when the issue with the police was being discussed. In fact, I thought it was the Home Secretary, but in this country, I think it's only natural for the Minister of National Education to sit in the lines of the Commission in a country where the non-assigned teachers are police. I congratulate Mr. Minister of National Education in that sense. I'm looking forward to how our Minister of National Education will handle the problems of the police in a country where unauthorised teaching doesn't begin. Dear friends, this is a problem involving 2 million families, wives, police officers, pensioners, 2 million families. Look, notice, my fellow lawmakers have just suggested, we're thinking about problems with the police, some of the materials are coming in here, there's improvements being made, we're not against that, we're not against that, but first we'd like to discuss whether this 25 percent improvement actually solves the problems of the police, the police, the law enforcement. Look, there's one thing, we tried to explain in campaigns, but unfortunately that didn't work out, we couldn't explain it. A few moments ago, the valued MP said, look, all 3,600 of the additional indicators are police officers, police officers all over Turkey are waiting for this, my dear friends. It's easy to talk in front of those funerals when police officers are brought in with their flagship coffins, but it's important to bring the problems of their living to this parliament, Mr. Secretary. Look, you're going to bring it back to the 9th article in a little bit about 3000, 40 lira, 45 lira, and you're going to make a difference. Who are we gonna tell? But it's about 3,600. Look, all police officers, all law enforcement officers, are waiting to make this kind of improvement. When I came to Parliament this semester, one of the first proposals of the law I gave in the 26th century was to make an arrangement concerning this 3,600. He's waiting in line. Look, police officers don't charge overtime, my dear friends, no overtime is in the form of a police officer. So, the International Labour Organization is about employees who have set a standard. He says he needs to work for a hundred and eighty hours. There's nothing in Turkey that has anything to do with much work in the fight against terrorism in the region, especially in Turkey. Two hundred and forty hours of work, two hundred and fifty hours of work, three hundred hours of police work. What are we doing? It's forbidden. We say, we force him to work, we don't pay overtime. We need to fix it in that sense, but how do we fix it, my dear friends? Look, what's the date on the police-related law? The law on law enforcement is dated 1937. Many arrangements have been made from 1937 to today, true, many years have passed, but unfortunately these provisions cannot meet today's conditions, my dear friends. Now, with the arrangements brought in here, it's as if we're predicting a improvement of the working police, but let's not deny one thing, my dear friends: there's no regulation for pensioners. Yeah, there's a partial adjustment coming in, it's about working cops. Well, to the pensioners, we've trained you, we've used you, shall we put you aside, my dear friends? We have police friends all over Turkey, brothers, children of the people. After retirement, 3,000, 3. The people who get paid 200 lira, the next thing you know, their salaries are down 60 percent. Tell who what? Look, here at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, at the temple of this Ataturk. The moment we walk out this door, these police officers protect us, my dear friends. When they retire, we have friends of police officers who get paid 1,500 lira, £1,600. Do you wonder what they're doing? You know what they do? Either they go to any businessman in private security companies, they work for an additional fee, or they go to the minimum wage, where they're at least trying to work where it's beneath their dignity, my dear friends. So after the Prime Minister's 7th June elections -- it occurred to him after that -- we're going to do 3300 additional indicators. An event he says is not really anything, it's a utopia. Mr. Secretary, we need to fix this. I, in fact, just now, told you when you were sitting here in the first place, I said, if there's such an arrangement, why doesn't the Home Secretary sit here? In my own inner world, I said, in a fair sense, the Home Secretary doesn't sit. Once again, in a country where unregistered teachers are police, their problems will suit you, Mr. Secretary, if we're talking about them in Parliament. The government will make this arrangement immediately. Look, as I've just said, nearly 2 million families -- active, retired, children -- are looking at Parliament right now to see what we're going to do. The 25 per cent regulation on Article 8 denies in a sense the integrity of the public regime, but let's get the whole Parliamentary Group together in Article 9, let's make a revolution here, let's start with the police. Let's put aside the integrity of the regime, let's set up the coefficient on the 3,600, let's give the police of the republic a hand in the Republic's Parliament, my dear friends. With these thoughts, I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0280par0245	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0281par0248	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0280par0249	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0281par0250	Mr. President, I'd like to speak to you regarding my position according to the Civil Code, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0280par0251	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0281par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the long-standing political genocide operations against our party continue, unfortunately, with the aim of silenced HDP (HDP) very recklessly. Today, 30 of our friends, including Mr. Zeki Çelik, a member of the MYK, were taken into custody during political operations in Ankara and Istanbul. Mr. Halil Aksoy, our 24th Term Ağrı MP, was also detained and brought to trial today due to a number of coercion and fictional allegations. We've just received word that our congressman friend has been arrested. Again, court proceedings continue regarding our friends who have been taken into custody under political genocide. We want to express that we have publicly condemned these political genocide operations here. With these genocide operations, we would like to express that HDP could never be silenced, that HDP's struggle for democracy, freedom and peace would continue more decisively, and that tens, hundreds of our friends from the HDP would take the position of duty in a more determined way than any of our arrested friends. We'd like to repeat once again the call to the government to stop the politicalized judicial action of the HDP to silence it immediately. If they think they can find a solution in Turkey by arresting the mayors, city councilmen, lawmakers, members of the party, members of the TYK, co-chairs, they will see that they are both very wrong about history and they will lose big. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0282par0263	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I'd like to express my condolences. In particular, I learned from you that Mr. Halil Aksoy was arrested by a friend of mine, who I served with under this roof of Parliament in the 24th term. So, I'd like to express my regrets and wish you well. Now, there are three motions on the 9th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article (2/434) 9 of Article 9 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws (/517) and the Justice and Development Party's Deputy Chair, Bkent Turan and Çanakkale MP Ayhan Yaz, Kursıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 23 MPs. With all due respect. Bült Kuşoğlu Mahmut Tanal Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Seyit Grandkim Musa Pine Veli Ağbaba The extension of Law No. 9-657 (I) is "VII. The section (e) of the Security Services Class (a) section (aa) was changed in the following way. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 9 of the current Law Bill 68 shall be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Erhan Usta Mehmet Günal Erkan Haberal Desire Erdem Mehmet Parsak Mehmet Erdoğan İsmail Faruk Aksu Baki Yıldırım The extension of Law No. 9-657 (I) was defined by the section "IV-Education and Teaching Services" (b) and "VII. The Security Services Class has been changed in the following way. "b) Teacher and other staff "VII. EMERGENCY SENTENCES SINIFILE A) Police Director 17,000 B) Deputy Chief of Police, President of the Inspection Board, President of the Police Academy, 16,000 Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir County Police Directors C) Apartment Presidents, I. Attorney General, 1 5,000. Other First Class Police Directors, d) Their staff is included in this class, but second, 14,000 2 3600 with the Third and Fourth Class Police Commissioner Those who have won the title of Chief of Police 3 3000 e) Captain, Lieutenant, Sergeant, Senior Chief of Staff, Chief of Police and Police. aa) Higher Education 1,3600 Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of Law Bill 68 be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mahmut Toğrul Çağlar Demirel Lezgin Botan Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0283par0347	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0282par0348	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0284par0349	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0282par0350	Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0285par0353	Mr. President, dear MPs, dear workers of the General Assembly, I salute you all. I'm going to share the views of the People's Democratic Party on the motion on the 9th Article of Bag Number 68. Dear lawmakers, it's important that the Minister of National Education is with us today. Today, especially the most important source of police, gendarmes, Special Ops officers... unfortunately, those who have graduated from the basic sciences that I am a member of, especially those who need to produce science on paper for this country... who have graduated from the physics, chemistry, mathematics, biology departments... have finished their studies... and have been unable to find a job, to be depressed at various times... and not to be embarrassed at the end of their family. Dear friends, Turkey has recently spent much of its recent production on war, national defence, security. The slightest right, the slightest demand for equality, as I have just said, is met with gas, with baton, unfortunately. Dear lawmakers, when every family sends their child to college today -- their expectations -- they want him to have a job in that area after finishing that chapter at that university. However, before Mr. Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer may ask a question about non-assigned teachers: let the unregistered teachers look for alternatives in line with their abilities. Why did these kids go to these schools? Why did they study four years of hard work like physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics? Mr. Secretary, what's the main reason why they can't be appointed even though they need to teach schools? Why are these students being referred to this police, gendarmes, Special Ops, rather than to be embarrassed by their families, which they don't really want to be? Dear friends, as you know -- as I mentioned in my earlier speech -- some of the police who recently died of conflict in Kurdish geography, some of the Special Operations teams, graduates of physics, graduates in chemistry, graduates in biology, graduates in biology. In the recent brother blood, in the conflicting environment in the region, when these people no longer prefer police, gendarmeism, and are increasingly inclined to resign from this profession, the government is bringing up such a law -- again, I say again -- is really, psychologically, to form a war front, to form a class of members of a war front. Now, I've just told you, now that this war is draining Turkey's resources, that's where we don't have any money left to spend on our teachers, other professions, unfortunately. What are we spending it all on? We're spending it on war. Why? So his Kurdish children would die. Why? It's a psychologically-war psychology to kill women, children, everyone. This war psychology is a psychology that is not good for all of us. We're doing the same call over and over and over again, and we're saying that the government needs to get out of the psychology of dying, killing, and go out there and ask the public what's causing the problems there. The AKP MPs are very opposed to us. Dear friends, in the last conflict, have any of you been to Diyarbakır, have you been to Şırnak, have you been to Hakkari, have you been to Van? I mean, it's hard to tell when you're still making sense when that's the case.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0286par0362	Drop the guns, come on.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0287par0363	I was there last week. Don't fool anyone.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0285par0364	This war will not win this country, the solution is in peace.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0288par0366	It's not war, it's terrorism.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0285par0367	I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0289par0369	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0290par0371	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit04spe0289par0372	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0289par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the 9th article, there was not enough decision to vote on the motion of Mr. Mahmut Toğrul and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough of a decision, there is not enough, the motion is not accepted. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 9 of the current Law Bill 68 shall be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends The extension of Law No. 9-657 (I) was defined by the section "IV-Education and Teaching Services" (b) and "VII. The Security Services Class has been changed in the following way. "b) Teacher and other staff "VII. EMERGENCY SENTENCES SINIFILE A) Police Director 17,000 B) Deputy Chief of Police, President of the Inspection Board, President of the Police Academy, 16,000 Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir County Police Directors C) Apartment Presidents, I. Attorney General, 1 5,000. Other First Class Police Directors, d) Their staff is included in this class, but second, 14,000 2 3600 with the Third and Fourth Class Police Commissioner Those who have won the title of Chief of Police 3 3000 e) Captain, Lieutenant, Sergeant, Senior Chief of Staff, Chief of Police and Police. aa) Higher Education 1,3600 Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0291par0053	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0289par0054	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0292par0055	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0289par0056	Mr. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa on the motion...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0293par0058	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 9th Amendment. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, the police are willing to sacrifice their lives for the safety and peace of our country. However, the irregular and stressful working environment, some professional risks, even demoralize the enthusiasm, let alone the enthusiasm to work with the police, even to live. The Public Control Agency has a report dated December 30, 2014, valued MPs. According to this report, 157 of our police officers committed suicide between 2008 and 2013. Again, at the same time, 2,323 police were also treated psychologically, and 360 police had changed classes for psychological reasons. The average life expectancy in Turkey is around 74, but this can sometimes land on the police until 55. Again, according to the same report, in European Union countries, police work hours are between 35 and 40 hours a week, but we think the average hours of police work are up to 60 hours a week, which has recently exceeded even 70 hours. In addition, police are given a number of additional tasks outside of their original work, and there are no additional payments on these additional tasks. Besides, they don't get administrative permits for overtime. Such a species is a serious victim of the rights of autonomy. In Article 9 of the 9th Amendment, the government bill raises an additional measure of a university-educated police officer from 2,200 put to 3,000. Dear friends, since we're making an arrangement, we need to do it seriously, in a remarkable way. At this time, a policeman's salary increases by only 45 lira a month, and a 52 lira increase in pensions. We, the National Movement Party, ask for 3,600 additional indicators, not 3,000, and with this arrangement, the salary of the working police will actually increase to $63, and the pensioner police will have a raise of $460. So, at a time when bread is up 25 percent, these numbers are not such serious numbers, and they are very easy numbers to meet within budget opportunities. Come on, let's fix this together before this stuff passes. If you say, "Let's reject it," I'll now withdraw the motion. Mr. Kabbat, let's withdraw the motion, let your motion be accepted, and let's accept it. We don't claim that, it's about eating grapes, not beating up the lace. We are extremely constructive and positive about this. And you have until this clause is approved. Come on, you give the motion, we'll all take it. However, the current arrangement does not meet the expectations of police officers, as if it were a mockery, or if you'd like to make another arrangement in the future, we'll now pay the police's rights to their rights, or we'll make these arrangements, in the interest of paying security compensation or a different payment for security services. In this motion, we also recommend the additional indicator of our teachers. Again, the university, of course, recommends that the additional indicator of our teacher be raised to 3,600. I ask for the acceptance of our motion, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0294par0067	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article (2/434) 9 of Article 9 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws (/517) and the Justice and Development Party's Deputy Chair, Bkent Turan and Çanakkale MP Ayhan Yaz, Kursıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 23 MPs. Veli Agha (Malatia) and his friends The extension of Law No. 9-657 (I) is "VII. The section (e) of the Security Services Class (a) section (aa) was changed in the following way. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0295par0083	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0294par0084	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0296par0085	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0294par0086	Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba on the motion.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0297par0088	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, the additional indicator of police officers must be increased, their salaries must be arranged, but first the rights of police officers must be secured. Dear friends, we visited police officers who were attacked by a car bomb while lying in their home in China last week. First of all, I'd like to say that I strongly condemn and curse those who committed this attack. In the middle of the night, the wife of a sleeping father-daughter and a police officer was killed in an attack on her house while she was sleeping with her children. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today I spoke to the injured police and their families in GATA. One of them is a Malatian police officer named Genghis Başaran. Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary, Genghis Başaran is a physics teacher, an unassigned physics teacher. He goes because he can't be appointed, becomes a cop, and his wife becomes a martyr there. Genghis Başaran comes home from work at midnight, hugging and kissing his two - year - old son, the hero, and at that moment the attack is taking place. A few minutes later, he is free, searching for his mate, unable to find his wife; the second day, twelve hours later, under the rubble, his wife's lifeless body is reached. The wounded police officers I interviewed there say that the AKP had been hiding them from parliament three years ago, meeting with Kandil (Kandil) during the so-called peace process with the island, during which they started their so-called peace process, the PKK has told the districts that they were massing them to authorities, but they also said that there were no measures taken. The government's just watching. Dear friends, in the old days, the police, the soldier, were killed in battle on the mountain, and now he's being killed in his bed at home in the street, shopping. More than 200 police officers have been killed since 7 June. The police commissioner was killed in Bingol, and the perpetrators were nowhere to be found. Again, after Suruç's incident, two police officers were murdered in their homes in the middle of the night, and the perpetrators were nowhere to be found. Again, dear friends, look, 13 young saplings were killed in the middle of the city by bombs planted on the road. Guys, I'm getting your attention, a police car was passing through Main Street, and a bomb went off, 13 poor, poor, poor children were killed by a police officer. Look, you put water pipes on the street in the country, and everyone knows it, but there's a bomb on the road, and the government doesn't know it. Dear friends, look, the precious MPs, hundreds of policemen, soldiers, were slaughtered in plain sight. Does the MIT know about these bombs that were laid in Iğdır? MIT has no idea.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0298par0096	There is, there is, and the MIT knows it.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0297par0097	Because the MIT has more important things to do. MİT follows young people from Twitter, Facebook, who insult the President at age 14, who are 15 years old or who press the button on Facebook. Unfortunately, MIT listens to CHP MPs instead of looking for people who set bombs on the road instead of doing these tasks. Dear friends, even during the election period, the MIT, instead of investigating the planted bombs, the AKP candidates -- whether you've been arm in arm in the past -- are investigating it or not -- are investigating it, unfortunately, that was the MIT's most important mission. Poor poor children die, children who grow up without plaster die. Dear friends, I want to tell you this to your face: you're responsible for the dead cops, the soldiers. You didn't take precautions, unfortunately, there's still blood everywhere.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0299par0099	Choose your side, your side.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0297par0100	Look, hard-working machines dig ditchs, I don't know what they're saying. Who are you blaming? You're to blame.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0299par0101	Pick a side.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0297par0102	You are the guilty Ramadan Can, and you are the guilty one. For three years, you haven't been able to take precautions in three months, so who are you blaming? Is the dead cop guilty? You're to blame, guilty government, you're to blame, dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, dear friends, there's a lot of blood running all over Turkey, we're talking about a problem today, a thousand policemen with the prime minister, 2,000 policemen with the president, hundreds of police with the minister; police in the dead, police in the living, police in the money. Dear friends, the police themselves are poor, the mother is poor, the father is poor, and their children are not poor. Look, if the indicator stays in 3000, don't. If the police are going to stay at 3300, don't do it. What's the difference? You're paying the beggar? If you're gonna do it, make it 3600, and the police can relax. Again, if you don't make 3000, please don't do this, don't fool the cops. When you send a cop to his death, it's good, it's not worth the money. Unfortunately, only money works for you, not poor children. Please, make the additive 3600, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0300par0107	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Here you go, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0301par0109	Mr. President, you are responsible for the killing of the police in the speech of Mr. Agha. We want to speak in accordance with 69.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0300par0110	Here you go, Mr. Cakir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0301par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. So we're not responsible for the dead cops. I don't find it necessary to say it because it's a subject of explanation, and it doesn't even have to be said. Of course we're not responsible for the dead cops, the dead cops. Dear friends, we can't come to a judgment without looking into his background when we're discussing a matter, just acting on the outcome, there's no such thing. There's a major terrorist enterprise, terrorism, terrorists, and the area is on its feet. In this case, what will the country's legitimate powers, security forces, politics, law, legislation do, sit down and look at them? Of course, he will do what is necessary to defend his country, to defend his land, to take precautions against illegal and illegitimate incidents. We don't want a cop to be a martyr, we don't want a soldier to be a martyr; we don't want a child to die, women to die, any human being to die, but there is a struggle. I wish he didn't die, and I wish all of this didn't happen, but in a very rash way, your speaker, you're responsible for the dead police. It can be done about other things, but I think it's the least we can do about it. I salute your committee.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0302par0120	Thank you, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0303par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0302par0122	Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0303par0123	Mr. Cakir teased you with my name, as a congressman...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0302par0124	Mr. Aghababa, please don't challenge a new taunt... Two minutes, I promise you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0303par0127	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Cakir says, "What should the police do, not defend the country?" He must defend it, so there's no doubt about it. But, dear friends, look, in this process, three years ago, we said, "You're starting a process, we're willing to lend it to you if there's no blood." However, we said that the address of this solution was Parliament, and we said, "Don't be in secret negotiations." Unfortunately, you didn't listen to any of this. Look, so far, this group has been talking very differently. The same group said very different things, especially after 2013. We were saying that if there were to be an interview, be on legitimate ground. But unfortunately, you were able to create perceptions, change names, and talk to various places. You were saying: "We are meeting with Kandil. " In fact, you do not speak to the mountain, not the mountain, but the mountain that you speak to Kandil. Who are you talking to? The PKK people there. Or what were you saying, we're meeting with the Imran. For God's sake, does anyone ever talk to the island? Who are you talking to? There you were speaking with your companion, Ocalan, whom you were flirting with. That's what you do in the process. Now, we say, look, here's a little example: 13 cops in Iğdur are being killed by a bomb on the main street of the day.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0304par0131	Choose your side, Agha.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0303par0132	13 young cops... now, who's responsible for this, the dead cops? It's not the political will, it's the government, I'm running the country.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0305par0133	Kurdistan Workers, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0304par0134	Pick a side, Veli Agha.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0303par0135	He doesn't see MIT, he doesn't see the police; what will happen, who is responsible?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0305par0137	Don't show the wrong address, PKK people...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0303par0138	You guys are responsible, you're responsible. You may not care about the one who was slaughtered there.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0305par0139	If you have a heart, say "PKK" people.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0303par0140	You may not care, you may not have cops near you, you may not have soldiers, you don't care about them. I'm saying you're responsible for their murder. Yeah, 13 cops, just like that... 13 cops getting killed by a bomb. You're saying you're not responsible. What are you, a scarecrow? You're the government, you'll do what you have to! Are you a scarecrow? You're bleeding all over Turkey, you're not making a sound, you're yelling at the CHP people.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0305par0142	Why don't you say "P.K.K.K."?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0303par0143	Don't talk, take responsibility! You're a government, not a scarecrow!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0306par0144	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0307par0145	You're the scarecrow! Look at the history of the 80-year-old CHP.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0306par0146	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0307par0147	There's a CHP in all the problems.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0308par0148	Tell me what you know.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0306par0149	Congressmans, please, let's not talk mutually.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0307par0150	There's CHP in all kinds of problems.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0308par0151	Don't talk, don't talk, sit down!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0307par0152	Unfortunately, the CHP has all kinds of problems.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0309par0153	You've learned a sentence, you keep repeating it.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0310par0154	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0311par0155	Mr. Cakir, come in. Mr. Cakir, I didn't promise. Mr. Cakir, I haven't listened to you yet.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0310par0157	Mr. President, I thought you promised.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0311par0158	No, I was going to say silence your deputy, but...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0310par0159	Mr. President, I respect your gestures and gestures.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0311par0160	I'm listening to you now, Mr. Cakir, come in.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0310par0161	Mr. President, we respect your words and gestures and gestures. When I invited him, I came because there was such an obvious bullying that not only was there a scarecrow, but the whole conversation was a taunt.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0311par0162	Here, I'll give you my word now, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0310par0165	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Aghababa has just proved me right. Mr. Aghababa is just making me right. I mean, with the speech he's had, and the insults he's used behind his back, it just makes us right. What did we say? We said: "You shouldn't go to a political exchange from here, through the deaths, through the fight against terrorism." It's not a criticism from you. If you did a review, we'd have to take the hat off. What you do is something else. What you're doing, Mr. Agha, is what you're doing, what you're least likely to provoke, what you're doing, Mr. Agha. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, wherever in the world, in a legitimate order, within a legitimate system, and according to the law, if there is any progress that threatens that system -- it will be east, it will be to the west, it will be to the north -- it will be to the north -- it can't be considered that the elements of that legitimate authority and its legitimate authority, its tools, will remain indifferent to it. This is the same in Europe, and so is Asia. I mean, to not understand this, I don't know, but I guess you have to be under six, at least you have to be under six years of intelligence. Dear friends, we've been saying it all along, we'll probably say it a hundred times, a thousand times. When we raise our voices, when we shout and shout, our conversation is more right, not more convincing. What's important is the fact that we're talking, that we need to focus on it, that we need to say it. If you have a fire right now, you're not pouring water into that fire, to tell you the truth, you're going to that fire with a can of gasoline, you're going to the fire. This is not the right approach. If you have good intentions, you must go to the fire to pour water. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0312par0172	Thank you, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0313par0173	Mr. President, according to Article 69, I'd like a word, too. Mr. Cakir, I mean, he insulted me a lot, so I have to answer.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0314par0174	Where's the sarcasm in that?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0315par0175	Look at the reports, the reports.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0316par0176	Mr. Agha, that's how it goes. Please, I promise you two more minutes before you dare to pick on me again. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0317par0178	Let him talk without teasing, and I'll applaud. I'll clap if he talks without teasing.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0318par0180	Dear friends, even if you're uncomfortable, I'll keep telling the truth. In a good manner, Mr. Cakir says: "There must be no moisturizing over death. " I agree, there should be no moisture over death. Never, ever, should we be standing in the coffins of our fallen soldiers, our policemen, and not talking to them, like this, standing at the head of a coffin and giving speeches.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0319par0181	Aren't you going? You just told me, I went to visit the gazi.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0318par0182	See, in a village of Osmaniye, a mother says, "If this is a war, let's go fight men, women, children, disabled people. If this is not war, why is my child dying? We are looking for the answer. Why is my child dying? We are looking for the answer. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Dear friends, look, even though you're uncomfortable with this, it's the political power responsible for the dead cops, the dead soldiers. Look, last week, the police department at Çınar. They were attacked by a truckload of bombs...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0319par0185	Who did it, who?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0318par0186	Half the building goes down, Uncle Hassan's bride falls down one floor, her body is found a day later.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0320par0187	Tell me who did it.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0318par0188	Who's responsible for this? Am I responsible for this? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Dear friends, the government's duty... you've let it go so far, you've been flirting with the PKK...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0321par0192	What do you mean, flirt?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0318par0193	Flirting, flirting, flirting, flirting. You hand in hand, arm in arm, flirt, you've taken no precautions, you've dug a ditch with your business machine, heavy guns, you let heavy guns in, and now you're still talking about it!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0322par0194	Mr. Agbaba, we understand what Auntie Osmaniye said, what are you saying?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0318par0195	If the PKK has piled up there, it's on you. If soldiers are being killed there, if rockets are being attacked in the middle of the night, I'm sorry, the political government is responsible for that, Mr. Secretary. You guys are responsible for this, whether you're mad or upset. You are responsible for the death of the dead soldiers, the poor, blind son of Uncle Hasan, the daughter-in-law, in the village of Malatya Günere!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0323par0198	The Turkish people know who's responsible!
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0324par0199	The terrorists have nothing to do with this?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0325par0200	Thank you, Mr. Agha. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions on the 10th article, and I read the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of the first sentence of Article 43 of Article 657, under which Law Bill Number 68 shall be added, "in turn, without permission of milk" to the last sentence of the same joke, we propose that eight weeks' leave be added to the "in accordance with Article 104" (A), or "in accordance with the same clause (F) to be allowed to come after the original delivery of the child." Bornt Turan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Reşat Petek Ramadan Can Hasan Basri Kurt İsmail Bilen Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the last sentence of Article 657, which is added to Article 657 to Article 657, shall be changed in the following way by Article 68, and by Article 68. Argi Erdem Mehmet Günal Erhan Usta Erkan Haberal Mehmet Parsak Mehmet Erdoğan İsmail Faruk Aksu Deniz Depboy Baki Lightning "The spouse, who adopts a child with his wife, and the wife, who is not a civil servant, will also benefit from these jokes as of the date of the child's actual delivery." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article (2/434) of Article 10 of the Law Against the Law Against Some Laws (/517) and the Justice and Development Party's Deputy Chair Bkent Turan and Çanakkale MP Ayhan Yaz, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 23 MPs; and the 10th Amendment to some Laws. Bornt Kuşoğlu Şenal Sarıhan Mahmut Tanal Article 10-657 has been added to the following article. "A part-time postpartum study Subsequent Article 43- Officers who have given birth can demand that their weekly hours be arranged as half the normal time of work, from the end of paternity leave, which is used under a postpartum or Article 104 (F) joke, and from the end of paternity leave, according to the following legislation, to the period of the child's mandatory elementary school year. The officer, who has started working part-time in this area, can return to normal-time work on the basis of the period following the application date, provided he does not take advantage of this right for the same child again. The officer who takes advantage of this joke sentence is paid on the basis of half of each payment on financial rights and social benefits from the period following the period when he starts working part-time. Regarding their actual work-related payments, relevant legislation provisions are still being implemented. Service periods during this period are considered to be half as long as they are being sought for a degree increase and progress. The hours of the officer within this scope are determined by the institution concerned. In the event of adoption of a child with his wife or as a single official, and the adoption of a wife who is not an officer, his wives will also benefit from this joke from the date of the child's actual delivery. The Ministerial Council of Ministers is entitled to either jointly or separately determine the right to work together, or separately, the service class, the staff title, the institution or the agency, with the procedures and the basis for the use of part-time rights. Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the current 68 rows of the Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. Çağlar Demirel İdris Baluken Burcu Çelik Özkan Demir Erol Dora Feleknas Uca Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0326par0244	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0325par0245	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0327par0246	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0325par0247	On the motion, Mr. Burcu Çelik Özkan.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0328par0249	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 10th Amendment of the bill. The policy of resuscitation, which governance and capital bring to the agenda at every turn, has long been used to address any agenda related to women's employment. The capital has suggested flexibility at every opportunity, claiming that it will cure women's labor and the problems they face due to their paid working conditions. This statement is based on social gender roles and the claim that women's primary gender role is home care and family and that they want to fulfill their duties as a result of this, and that their paid working life is a secondary place in their lives. Whereas here, women are faced with a choice rather than a preference, so they are left out of options. Because, unlike men, the option of paying work is always put in front of women through family, child care, sexist roles. The arrangements for women and men to assume these responsibilities equally are not developed, and the basis for the speech of flexibility has been developed based on the belief that women's gender roles are defined and that family-based working life is temporary. In this sense, it would be correct not to increase her employment rate, but rather to say that she was forced to reduce the rate of the woman involved in the job, to choose a choice. In the matter, women are defined only by the role of mothers, and in the public and paid labour force, they are tried to meet the limits set primarily by their role as mothers. In this sense, flexible and unsecured working conditions, which are the basic line of capital, are sought to be popularized on the working class, starting with women laborers, as an excuse to be born and mothers. In this sense, the relevant substance limites the relationship between two people as a family by stressing that women may not be equal to men, but that the role of motherhood can exist through the achievements. Again, the child care mission, described as a gender role of women in the same article, was considered non-transferable and described as the main job. The option to work for a fee is offered without missing a child care job, which is the main job. Here, women are offered the role of motherhood; during the time remaining in child care and household chores, they are offered a low wage, short bonus, and the option to work in jobs described as unqualified because they are part-time. In this sense, the bill shows that the flexible and unsecured way of working is intended to be legalized. It is clear that the bill was rushed and that permanent solutions were created without being targeted. On the other hand, we said it yesterday, so let's say it again today. We can't talk about economic and social life returning to normal before the ongoing war in our country evolves sociologically into peace. We've been trying to show just one side of the violence in the Kurdistan in the General Assembly for the past two days. We've been explaining for hours for the right of our civilian people's lives, hoping we can address your consciences a little bit. We're going through a process where we pass on one lawlessness, and at the same time there's another lawlessness. Since we can't be a solution to what happens as parliament, we're taking measures from every case from the ECHR far away from our country, seeing that even these decisions can't be implemented, and we're living at the same time. Friends, this should be the solution to all the problems in our country today. Parliament must assume this task, and the process of dialogue and negotiation must be initiated immediately. That's why we're inviting Parliament on duty. Again, with all due respect.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0329par0258	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article (2/434) of Article 10 of the Law Against the Law Against Some Laws (/517) and the Justice and Development Party's Deputy Chair Bkent Turan and Çanakkale MP Ayhan Yaz, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 23 MPs; and the 10th Amendment to some Laws. Senal Sarıhan (Ankara) and his friends The following article has been added to the Law No. 10-657. "A part-time postpartum study EK MADDE 43- Officials who give birth can demand that the permit used under the postpartum or Article 104 (F) joke be arranged as half the normal working period of their weekly hours, from the end of paternity leave, to the period of the child's mandatory elementary school period, according to its legislation. The officer, who has started working part-time in this area, can return to normal-time work on the basis of the period following the application date, provided he does not take advantage of this right for the same child again. The officer who takes advantage of this joke sentence is paid on the basis of half of each payment on financial rights and social benefits from the period following the period when he starts working part-time. Regarding their actual work-related payments, relevant legislation provisions are still being implemented. Service periods during this period are considered to be half as long as they are being sought for a degree increase and progress. The hours of the officer within this scope are determined by the institution concerned. If the spouse adopts a child with his wife or as an individual, and the spouse adopts a child as an individual, then the spouse who is an officer will also benefit from these jokes as of the date of the child's actual delivery. The Council of Ministers has the authority to determine together or separately between the service class, staff title, institution or organization, with procedures and fundamentals related to the use of part-time work rights; the service class, staff title, or body." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0330par0269	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0329par0270	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0331par0271	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0329par0272	Ankara MP Senal Sarıhan on proposal...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0332par0273	Motive...
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0329par0274	I'm reading the reason: A change is recommended to make the material text understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the final sentence of Article 657, which is added to Article 657 and the first paragraph of Article 43, shall be changed in the following way. Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends "The spouse, who adopts a child with his wife, and the wife, who is not a civil servant, will also benefit from these jokes as of the date of the child's actual delivery." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0333par0284	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0329par0285	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0334par0286	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0329par0287	I'm reading the reason: A spouse who is not willing to adopt a child because it may not be possible for a single spouse to consent to it is removed from the article in order to avoid taking advantage of this right. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of the first sentence of Article 43 of Article 657, under which Law Bill Number 68 shall be added, "in turn, without permission of milk" to the last sentence of the same joke, we propose that eight weeks' leave be added to the "in accordance with Article 104" (A), or "in accordance with the same clause (F) to be allowed to come after the original delivery of the child." Bulent Turan (Chanakkale) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0335par0296	We'll leave it to your appreciation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0329par0297	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0336par0298	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0329par0299	I'm having it read. The motion aims to prevent the problem of working overtime if the first six months and three hours and six months and a half hours are scheduled for full-time employees, as well as a part-time study in the same way. The motion also aims to prevent a mix-up in the implementation of the work process for spouses who are not three years old, in the event that they adopt a child as a wife or as an individual, and the adoption of a wife who is not an official. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are four motions on the 11th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and offer free replacement of the term "no monthly" in Article 11 of the current 68 rows of the Bill of Law. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Burcu Özkan Çelik Huda Kaya Felaknas Uca Lezgin Botan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 2/434 of Article 11 of the Law Against the Law Against some Laws (/517) and the Justice and Development Party Group's Deputy Chair, Bkent Turan and Çanakkale MP Ayhan Yaz, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 23 MPs; and the amendment of some Laws. Bulent Kuşoğlu Mahmut Tanal Engin Altay Seyit Grandson Musa Pine Serkan Halal The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 11-657. Article 42-36 of Article 42-36, Article 8 of the "Partner Judgments" (C) joke, which is carried out in accordance with Article 108 of Article B, as part of the joke of Article B, on a monthly leave of absence, after the date of which this clause is in effect. Those who take this period of monthly leave on the day mentioned are entitled to use the benzene clause in terms of the remaining time of leave. Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the text of Article 68 of the Law, which is currently in session, and the statement of Article 657, and the statement of Article 42 of the Interim Article (2), which is envisioned to add to the Law of State Officers. Bornt Turan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Halil Eldemir Kerem Ali Constant Hasan Turan Halil Etım Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 68-line income tax law and the amendment to some laws, we propose and propose that the interim clause of Article 657 added to Article 657 to Article 11 of the Law shall be removed from the text of Article III (2). Argi Erdem Mehmet Günal Erhan Usta Erkan Haberal Mehmet Parsak Mehmet Erdoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0337par0342	We'll leave it to your appreciation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0329par0343	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0338par0344	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0329par0345	I'm reading the reasons for both motions: The motion aims to implement amendments to Article 104 of Law 657, as well as additional Article 43 provisions for birth and adoptions prior to the time of this clause's adoption, as the new date of implementation will be determined. 6 and 10 of the bill with this clause. It organises the rights brought with its substances. According to this, it will not be possible for officers present with children under the age of elementary school to exercise the right to work part-time. This right will be applied on the date of the matter and on the birth and adoptions that followed. This practice will create a situation that is extremely unfair and contrary to the principle of equality. Therefore, the right to work part-time should be used for all parents with children who are currently under the age of elementary school. Thus, the joke is removed from the article text. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 2/434) to the amendment of Article 11 to the amendment of Article 2/434 to the amendment of the Law of Justice and Development Party's Deputy Chair Bkent Turan and Çanakkale MP Ayhan Yaz, Kursıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 23 MPs; 2/434 to the amendment of some Laws. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The following temporary clause has been added to Law No. 11 ▪ 657. The draft order of Article 42 of Article 36 (C) section (8) of Article 36 (C) has been applied as part of Article 108 (B) which has been issued on a monthly leave of absence as part of the joke of Article 108 (B) since the date of the article's execution. Those who take this period of monthly leave on the day mentioned are entitled to use the benzene clause in terms of the remaining time of leave. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0339par0358	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0329par0359	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0340par0360	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0329par0361	I'm reading the reason: A change is recommended to make the material text understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement referred to in Article 11 of the 68th Amendment of the Common Law Bill shall be changed into non-payment. İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0341par0370	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0329par0371	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0342par0372	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit05spe0329par0373	I'm reading the reason: The term "no wages" in the article has been changed to "no charge." I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motions accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-01-21sit06spe0329par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At a meeting Thursday (January 22nd) of the advisory council, 21/1/2016, it has been agreed that the meeting of the General Assembly on Friday (January 22nd 2016) should be submitted to the General Assembly's approval. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. No one wants a word on the counseling board proposal. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Congressmans, we will resume the talks of Bill 68, where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Council of Europe's Charter, which is ranked in the 2nd place, clearing, investigating Criminal Influences, Handling, Co-operation, and Finance of Terrorism, in accordance with the Charter of the Council of Europe, and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will no longer be in place, the decision was made that it would be 15 p.m. on Tuesday (January 26, 2016) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
