tbmm-2016-04-23sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 79th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now we'll read the Istrillal March. [[Identical March]] Mr. President has honored our great House of Honor by taking its place in the audience box. I welcome them in the name of our coven. I say, our respects. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Members of parliament, according to our agenda, under the decision made in the 77th Union of the General Assembly on April 21, 2016, we begin our talks on the purpose of celebrating the 96th anniversary of the Grand Assembly of Turkey and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day and the significance of the day. Mr. President, we have come to understand the 96th year of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where our beloved nation's free and independent will is represented in the strongest and most effective way. Happy National Sovereignty and Children's Day (April 23rd). This morning, after the ceremony at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Memorial, we attended the program at the First Assembly building. After the acceptance of congratulations, we are now gathered to hold the special session of April 23rd. Members of parliament, April 23 is important in two ways; the first is a strong emphasis on the concept of national sovereignty, and the other is a holiday given to all children. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is above the will of all institutions, institutions and individuals in our country, as it is the sole representative of the national will and the establishment of national sovereignty. The common goal of the precious lawmakers under the same roof in this House is to believe in democracy and the rule of law, to work for the welfare of our nation, the stability of our state, the indivisible integrity of our country, and the fluctuation of our moon-star flag in our skies forever. National domination can only be consolidated by the fact that our nation is bound by faith, faith, and spirit root. From April 23rd to our present day, we have faced great challenges and obstacles in state and nation, but we know how to overcome them, and we have traveled considerable distances. We have achieved many successes in national spirit, in fine knowledge, in self - control. Opposition to the spirit is madness, opposition to the mind, and opposition to the soul is parenting. Challenges are overcome only by faith and faith. Challenges are ornaments that increase the value of success. There's no wall that can't be breached. Those who can't get past the obstacles are the ones who fear that they won't get over them. There is fear, but fear is not to be overcome by it. The summit is that we are a people who own and inherit a civilization. We've been through so much, so many glorious pages in history. We are heirs to three continents, seven seas with justice and humanity. There are 53 states in our land yesterday. We have a large culture geography that awaits friendly and brotherly guidance and leadership. Congressmans, our country's sovereignty, peace and security, territorial integrity, the safety and freedom of our people, as it has been in the past, is the target of many open or veiled attacks today. Today, we're going through a process where we've been subjected to acts of terror, sometimes openly and sometimes veiled by external forces that are out there. We've been dealing with terror for over 30 years. Besides, some so-called advanced, so-called civilized states are doing all kinds of support and work in favor of terrorist gangs to prevent us from reaching a solution, unfortunately, they're getting inside of us; they're showing attitudes to encourage destructive national unity and unity in our social and political system. In today's world, Mehmet Emin remembers the poem "Anadolu" by Yurdakulun: Alas, the poem that doesn't weep for you, Alas, to the conscience that doesn't tremble at you, Alas, the hands that don't reach for you, Shame on the man who didn't save you. Those who rise up fiercely and violently against terrorist acts in their own country, those who stir up the world, those who call us terrorists and big talks against terrorist movements. But no matter what it's called, no matter what it's called, terror is terror, no nationality, no religion, no religion, no race. We've never had a policy to support terrorist organizations in such a way that would disrupt the inner peace, order, and order of different states. On the contrary, our neighbor or not, we have seen the peace and safety of every state as our own peace and well-being. And beyond that, wherever it is in the world, we've tried as hard as we can to help those who have been subjected to persecution and injustice, moaning in hunger and misery, who have been forced to leave the land because of the slaughter and plunder they've suffered. In doing so, we have never divided race, religion, religion, or ethnicity. For example, we have opened our doors to people of every ethnic and religious group from Syria recently. This is an act of Ours which We have made to follow. Today, the state of the Republic of Turkey is among the countries that are helping the needy around the world the most in their economic capacity, revealing the superiority and value of our nation's spiritual and national values, our state's mission from history. The world should stop being a world where the strong crush the weak, where being strong means being right, where the exploitation must be helped. While we as a civilized world look for a solution to global problems, we see that some states use terrorism as a means of interfering and political operations in other countries in a covert manner. Unfortunately, we're one of the countries that's been subjected to this kind of operation. If we're giving martyrs to maintain peace and order, the main reason is that the outside world has not supported us in our fight against terrorism. However, we will not be lax in our fight against terrorism and terrorist acts and will not yield. Whenever I see a coffin wrapped in our flag, I remember the verses of our national poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy: "O martyr son of martyr, do not ask me to speak to you, Prophet." The size of the state and its woes are proportional. Our state is a state with historical depth, the summit is the heir to a civilization. That is why he is strong, determined, determined, and will surely overcome the scourge of terror. Today, the issue of terrorism has become a common issue for world states to address with sincerity. This truth must be understood now. Members of parliament, another key problem for the world to come up with is the refugee issue. Until recently, millions of innocent people, like us, had to leave their homeland with a system of their own. The dead, tiny body of the Aylan baby that washed up on the beach is still in front of our eyes. It wouldn't be wrong to doubt the existence of your conscience if you saw that photo and didn't have a sore heart. Similar tragedies happen every day. Our Turkey has welcomed more than 3 million refugees. All governments must join hands in the solution to this problem. Dear MPs, as I said at the beginning of my speech, April 23rd is also a holiday for our children; Kemal Ataturk gave it to the children as a holiday on April 23, 1927. Our children are our future. According to our faith, our young are born without sin. Their bones and senses are clean pages. It is one of the most important duties of us elders and those who are also in the position of responsibility that these revolutions develop with knowledge and knowledge that is beneficial to mankind. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it is our primary duty to make decisions that will ensure the healthy development of our children and young people. Every investment they receive is an investment for a stronger and prosperous Turkey. In the case of the 1982 Constitution, each child has the right to have personal and direct relations with his parents, unless it is openly in violation of its high interests. The state takes protective measures against all abuses and violence. • It is an executive rule of our Constitution to protect our children from all abuse and violence, considering the importance of the family institution. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is determined to take every precaution to protect our children from matter and from meaning; to raise healthy generations physically, spiritually, and mentally. The protection of children is one of the things that we care about the most as a state and that we are sensitive about, and no one should have any doubts about it. We show that by celebrating April 23rd as the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, we value our children as much as our most basic value, such as national domination, which means our future. On this occasion, I remember the founders of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the founders of the National Assembly of Turkey, the founders of the Imperial War, who made it the foundation of national will, and all the metaphors of the Veteran Assembly, and the saints of our martyrs, with gratitude and gratitude. I pray to God for all our martyrs and veterans who have laid down their lives under the rule of the Veteran Assembly to preserve the freedom and sovereignty of our country and our state. May their place be paradise. And I salute you with my most sincere and sincere love, and with my regards, in the hope that you will reach the holidays in health, peace, pleasure, unity and unity. Thank you. [[AK PARTY, MHP and the Council of Ministers welcome]] Members of parliament, I will now pledge ten minutes to the leaders of the group of political party groups represented by Turkey's Grand National Assembly, according to the decision. President of the Justice and Development Party and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] President of the Republican People's Party and Chairman of the Parliament Group, İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroğlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Peoples' Democratic Party Co-Chair and Parliamentary Group Chairman İstanbul MP Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, instead of Group Deputy Chair Diyarbakır MP Mr. Çağlar Demirel. [[Applause from HDP rows]] President of the National Movement Party and Parliamentary Group Chairman Osmaniye MP Mr. State Gardenli. [[AK PARTY MHP and a round of applause]] The first statement is for Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, chairman of Justice and Development Party and Parliamentary Group Chairman. Here you go, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-04-23sit01spe0002par0045	Mr. President, our esteemed President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the esteemed MPs, we are gathered together on a very special day. May the 96th year of the foundation of our Veteran Assembly be good to you, to our nation, to the oppressed nations, and to all mankind. I celebrate our children's feast, the only holiday in the world, and our children's beautiful, bright faces, with the prayer of a smile, the prayer of Niys. Special days are not only for remembrance, they also provide an accounting opportunity. For him, I invite you first a hundred years ago, with the awareness of being here, representing not only today's 78 million, but all of our dear citizens who have lived in our country, not just today's 78 million, beyond the localities of our political ideas, party identities, localities, cities that we've come from. For a moment, I would like to invite all of us from this bench, not only as the leader of the Justice and Development Party, whose representation I am honored by, but as a representative of this nation, to an accounting firm. It was a hundred years ago; this assembly was gathered in Ulus, and its president was Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. All the members of the House were filled with representatives, people from occupied cities, who were then country land, and some of them were out of our borders. There was sadness in each of them, because for over a thousand years, the land of the people who had been united in fate had been occupied, the values defended, the values persecuted, the invasion of pain from every part of the land. The lectured Diyap Agha was on one side, Rumeli boy national poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy on the other. Diyarbakır MP Mehmet Zülfü Tigrel is in another corner, again Dersimlı Mustafa Zeki Saltuk is in another corner. The Sheik Haci Ahmet Baysoy of Erzincan is there again. Each of them had different backgrounds, stories, but they all had a history of a nation they believed in beyond personal stories. Because they knew that nations can't exist unless there's a historical story that goes beyond personal stories. Because they knew that without common concerns, ideals, more than personal interests, a nation cannot live in honour. They came out of the thick of the battle. It was thought that they had no power to withstand it by the outside world. The council was named after the Parliament because each of them was a real veteran. Some went to war, returned as veterans of the battle, hoping for martyrdom; others left their homes to become veterans. Look at all our grandparents, we all have this story in our grandparents. A line that began in Tripoli in 1911, which continued with the Balkan Wars, continuing with the First World War and the Institutional War. I remember my late grandmother when I told her about my grandfather: "My son, we were married, and then he went into the army. I was a young girl, a fresh bride. She said so herself. When she returned, I was a very old lady. For the past 14 years, she went to Tripoli, and my late grandparents went together, and they found a different Turkey when they clashed on different fronts. That's the story of all of us. That's the story of the grandfather of all of us gathered together under the roof of this House. Guys, we have a history in common. Let us never forget our common history that unites us, that makes us strong against adversity, that looks forward to the future. Tripoli, the sufferings of the Balkans, all the nations of an ancient culture flowed to Çanakkale to defend Istanbul; from those who couldn't flow, in Tripoli, Iqbal, like Mohammed Iqbal, in Lahor, and if they ask me, Lord, what have you brought from the world's most saintly martyr of Edirne and Tripoli? I brought the blood of my Turkish brothers Ya Ullullah. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] They had defended Istanbul in Çanakkale, and had defended Baghdad in Kutülamare. In a very clear statement, the Çanakkale defense was not only the Istanbul defence of our nation, but the glorious resistance of all ancient values, of human honor, of colonialism, of imperialists. Kutülamare, which we discussed today, whether we should celebrate or not, was the last battle that all Middle Eastern peoples fought shoulder to shoulder during the defence of Baghdad, just as Istanbul was defended in 1916. Turkey, Arab, Kurd, Sunni, Shii, Keldani, Armenians all defended Baghdad in Kutülamare, and for many years it was called Kutülamare Çanakkale. Now, only our Turkish Armed Forces call it a great victory. Again, we must meditate on the Holy One, and on the spirit of Çanakkale. So, the first feature of our Veteran Assembly was that it really provided all that ancient unity, and the second feature was that it represented all the oppressed nations in the Gazi Parliament. When the Gazi Assembly met, aid came from Azerbaijan, Buhara Muslims, Hindu Muslims because they knew very well that if this Veteran Assembly succeeded, they would have hope of dignity and dignity, and if this Gazi Parliament failed, they would also be disappointed. Now, when we look at it from these two historical dimensions, let's all do a serious accounting together. This Parliament, where our grandfathers lived a hundred years ago, is the Parliament of a country that again faces a variety of threats a hundred years later, is the Assembly of all of us, and as a continuation of the Veteran Assembly, it is the Beka Assembly, which means to fight for a future today. So, let's put aside the differences between our political ideas, and let's all put this country's sovereignty together for the honor of this nation. No matter where he comes from, no matter where he comes from, the threat is to stand together. Whoever attacks the people of this country, let's all stand together in front of him. Let's curse all kinds of terror together. The fate of one part of the Veteran Assembly is separate from the other. If one thought it, I'm sure the members of the Veteran Assembly would have rebelled first. In the beautiful expressions of Dilyap Agha, the disciples surrounded Asia Minor. A thought took us all. Religion and religion, rape and chastity, Turkishism has been compromised. We heard there's a lifesaver on Erzurum's side, he's going to set up a parliament. Everybody's scared. As an old man, I risked running to those who saved the country and even giving my head. They told me, "Don't go, you'll die." Everyone's already going down; I'm going, I'm going, I'm not going to reach them, I'm going to die together. Friends, the fate of this nation is one; either we all exist together, or we all die together. (EC PARTY) Whoever separates one part of this nation from another and separates their fate from the others has committed the ultimate betrayal of the Veteran Parliament. Let's all raise our voices, let's say our fate is common, let's say our history is common, let's say we share our future, let's say that whoever puts conflict between us, we're side by side against them, that's my first call. My second call, again, in accordance with this historic story, before we forget that this House is the House of the oppressed nations, let's say whoever's head is in trouble from the oppressed nations, whoever's trying to save their lives, let's say this House and this country belong to him, too. That's true for Syrian refugees, for Kurdish refugees from Iraq, for Bosnian refugees. Let us all gather the children of Caucasus, the Balkans, the Central Asia, the Middle East together in the council of the oppressed nations. And finally, the third descriptive feature of this House is that despite all the pressures, it advocates freedom, democracy. From within this House, after the coup attempt, my predecessor, who walked with honor to the gallows, was Prime Minister, ministers. Together, as we defend our republic for unity and unity, as we defend it with all its elements, we must defend our democracy with the same determination and every blow and custody... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and make our democracy strong against their actions. When we do this, when we make this Assembly the fortress of our unity, the headquarters of our community, when we make this House the final destination of the efforts of justice and conscience of the oppressed nations, and when we make this Assembly the fortress of freedom, human rights and democracy, we will be sure, regardless of what our political views and differences may be, together, we will walk into a beautiful future. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] What we have to do is simple: never forget what came together nine or six years ago, and then live the spirit that brought them together, and then remember the pain that went until the end of the House, and defend democracy so that they don't happen again. In particular, my call to the opposition: Appreciate us when there are good jobs, so that we can always appreciate your criticism, and we can always take into account your constructive criticism, so that we can all form this new Turkey that rises from the Veteran Assembly. I'm sure if we don't forget this historical story, history will always be on our side, it will always be on our side, and we will always be the subject of history, not the object of history. Ninety-six years ago, those who founded this House became the subject of history. We celebrate here, I celebrate all our cities, and I know the honor that we carry with our Parliamentary Speaker to Şanlıurfa... which is right after the occupation of İstanbul and just before the establishment of the Assembly, that they will go as they came when they were occupied on March 16, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said! Now, we say the same thing: no one will covet this land, we will not divide it, we will not stumble those who want to divide it, we will hold the flag as a symbol of our freedom until the Day of Resurrection, and we will preserve our Veteran Assembly as the final headquarters of the national will until the Day of Resurrection. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] This House was opened in prayer, and I say this again, in prayer: May God keep us united and united. Don't let the Veterans ever have to set up another Veteran Assembly. (EC PARTY and the Council of Ministers) Let those who carry out their mission as a veteran and democratic Parliament make this House their mission to be the spokesman for the national will at all times. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers]] Once again, I salute and greet you with respect and conversation the Day of Sovereignty of our nation, the Day of Childhood of our children, the wish of walking hand in hand to a beautiful future.
tbmm-2016-04-23sit01spe0003par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, right now, President of the Republican People's Party and Chairman of the Parliament Group, İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroğlu will speak. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-23sit01spe0004par0075	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, I wish this great day to be a harbinger of bright and peaceful days for our country. I remember Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the great leader of the Liberation War, and our republic, and all the members and all the martyrs who have been separated from us, mercifully and respectfully, by declaring the nation's unconditional sovereignty in Ankara six years ago. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Members of parliament, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is one of the world's ten oldest parliaments. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the only parliament in the world to hold the title of the Shaazi Parliament (Gazi Parliament) because of its victory over our Liberation War). And our republic is the work of the revolutionary staff and the spirit, who trust and respect their people enough to give the whole world a holiday, to be the crown of national sovereignty. The independent Republic of Turkey is founded within the framework of social, economic development in a modern sense within its borders, and internationally under the principles of Jurtta sulh, jihanda sulh. The goal of this is to create a secular, democratic, social law state that stays away from adventure and aims to work for everyone's happiness. Congressmans, we call this festival the National Sovereignty and Children's Day. In this context, it is necessary to understand what the revolutionary staff that founded the republic meant by the concept of national sovereignty. Those who try to create a dictatorship by distorting that concept today must first learn from Mustafa Kemal Ataturk (born February 7, 1923) in Balıkesir. Gazi Mustafa Kemal says that national ambitions, national will, are not only the thought of one individual, but the composition of the desires and ambitions of all the nations. (HPP rows) The opinion of this exalted assembly, which has crowned the struggle of a people with independence, is free, free of conscience, free of knowledge, and free of mind, is a fierce struggle today. I am confident that this difficult struggle will be crowned with a true democracy and freedom that reflects the sovereignty of the people. Dear lawmakers, national sovereignty is a pluralistic regime, a matter of justice and the rule of law in representation. A system where the majority is strong and powerful are right, not a pluralistic system where laws, citizens are driven by pressure, fear, bans, hatred, poverty, and the threat of instability. I'm out of the box, I'll do whatever I want. His understanding of national sovereignty is incompatible with the concept of national sovereignty because national sovereignty is not based on the number of votes that come out of the chest. Sovereignty belongs to the whole nation, to the last, unconditional nation. No force, no matter where it claims to have acquired its source, can provide custody over the nation, nor can it reveal itself as the source of the custody it is trying to establish. Such a style of governance does not agree with the principles of democracy and republic. Democracy is the name of a regime where free citizens, free media, independent judiciary, and the people whose government is the source of sovereignty are accountable every day. The unconditional sovereignty of the nation cannot be used as a weapon to seize the will of the nation and exclude certain elements of society. Dear lawmakers, where the rule of the superior rules, the nation has no sovereignty. Our people use national sovereignty through legislation, executive and judicial bodies. Use this authority alone to the executive body. It has not been called, nor has it been called. Dear lawmakers, maintaining a system of non-biased and independent justices, where the legislature is neutralized, disregarding our nation, which is the source of national sovereignty. Those who create special courts to intimidate society and their so-called opponents; those who want journalists, academics, intellectuals to be arrested, respond to their releases; those who even challenge the Constitutional Court when they dislike their decisions; those who flee from corruption investigations or hide behind the armor of immunity and irresponsibility are not only violating the Constitutional government, but also violating national sovereignty. Dear MPs, April 23rd is also the first and only holiday given to children of the world. Societys that depend on freedom, equality, and science, as Mustafa Kemal put it, can breed free minds, free minds, free consciences. If we draw our children's horizons with love and honesty, not hatred and hatred, our country will rise and move forward. We want to raise our children in a science-based, love-filled, hate-free, future-turning, unafraid education system. We want to raise our children as individuals in harmony with the globalized world, who use communication and communication opportunities effectively and question the world they live in because we know that a free and equal future is possible with generations that grow free. However, as one of the most important features of our republic, which Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has described as an orphan, our children suffer the greatest pain and pain of the rapid abandonment of the social state approach. The number of children in need is over 100,000. As of 2015 in Turkey, we have 31,337 children's brides, according to data from the Turkish Statistical Agency. In 2014 alone, there were 290,414 children who had been brought to or brought to security services for any reason. Children are being dragged into crime, the number of convicted children has increased five times over the last five years. According to international drug reports, the age of drug use has come down to 10. According to Justice Department data, crimes against the child are rapidly increasing in Turkey. Turkey is unfortunately ranking among the children at the latest in the equality of opportunity. Today there are about 1 million children working in Turkey; half of them are working and studying. Thirty-four percent of working children are overworked; one third of them are not given food at work. Only 63 of our children died in 2015 because of business accidents. According to Article 41 of our Constitution, each child is entitled to protection and care, and the state is tasked with taking protective measures against abuse and violence. According to this, it is not right to transfer such rights to other institutions, organisations, and foundations outside the state. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, as I end my words, I enjoy the joy of hosting our children from all over our country with my group this year. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends formed a state dedicated to the children of this beautiful country. As carriers of this flag, I would like to point out that our children and I will celebrate April 23rd under the roof of our Veteran Assembly with pride. With these feelings, once again, I salute the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of all our children and our nation, the 115 mebu, which reached the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on April 23, 1920, including the Grand Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and all the other mebus who later attended the works, and I respectfully remember, respectfully, our great Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-23sit01spe0005par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, now the People's Democratic Party's Co-Chair and Parliamentary Group Chairman, İstanbul MP, Mr. Denizhattin Demirtaş, will speak instead of Group Deputy Chair and Diyarbakır MP Çağlar Demirel. Yes, ma'am.
tbmm-2016-04-23sit01spe0006par0092	Mr. President, I salute you with love and respect on behalf of my own and the Democratic Party of Peoples. I celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of Turkey's people and all of our children's children. On April 23, 1920, the 96th year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, founded with a pluralistic understanding, is behind us today. First of all, we are in the bitterness of not being able to receive such a day with joy and hope, given to children today. This Parliament was founded ninety-six years ago as a place of hope to establish a common life on the basis of equal citizenship for the peoples living in this land. It was reflected in the 1921 Constitution on the basis of a pluralistic and decentralisation of the spirit of the Parliament, which sees differences as wealth and is the principle of justice in representation, but soon replaced by the new Constitution, which was drafted in 1924 with pluralist and equitable understanding. Dear MPs, if we return to our political history on the 96th anniversary of the opening of the House and look at our political history, we will see the chances of reaching the democratic republic and the coup process towards democracy. The Constitution, which democratised the republic in 1920, which envisioned pluralism, local governance, mutual respect and equal rights in 1921, was much more advanced than the 1980 coup constitution that we are subject to today, but those who took their power out of violence and chose their policy for oppression have struck democracy in 1924; this coup left Kurds, Alevis, Islamists, non-Muslims, socialists, and all social communities to be persecuted, especially. The coup process, which began in 1924, rejected the will to live together based on autonomy, imposed a single agenda on the country. Against this imposition, democratic social demands based on plural identities have been raised. With the 1924 understanding of the coup against the spirit of the 1920 Founding Assembly, the tools of violence and oppression were put in place of democratic negotiations against social demands. In this scope, the massacres of Sheikh Sait, Ağrı Zilan, Dersim, Roboski were carried out against Kurds who made righteous demands against the people. In the same way, the massacres of Çorum, Maras, Sivas, and Veterans against the Alevis were carried out. The non-Muslims were persecuted through the property tax. Again, in our country, the coup process, held alive simultaneously by the 1924 understanding, has permanently interrupted democracy. The Prime Minister of this country was executed by coupgers, and many of our citizens were killed in disguise and clothing. Again, Deniz Gezsi and his friends were executed by the coupists for demanding freedom and equality for the people in our country. Today, we are still ruled by the 1982 junta constitution, the product of this concept of coup. In this era, when the constitutions are considered a social contract, it is unacceptable for the political institution that the social contract between the peoples of Turkey was made by coupgers. The constitution, which was a coup, has severed the ties of the political institution and Parliament to our peoples in Turkey. Parliament, which has taken the source of the kingdom from the people, has been closed to the public under the constitution of coup. Parliament's will, torn from the people, has been handed over to guardians. It is clear that as long as the 1982 Constitution is in effect, the political institution's ties to the public will be severed, and no matter what political will comes to the government, there will be no change in this situation. There must be a strong political project and will to have a democratic and liberal political environment based on the public by overcoming this obstruction. Throughout the solution process, we have struggled to overcome the congestion of couptarian understanding as a party and to establish a democratic policy based on plural identities. As a matter of fact, our efforts have been wrapped up in the Dolmabahçe understanding, so to speak. The Democratic Constitution, the majority of identities, the universal agreement of Dolmabahçe, based on the universal values of each identity, such as the liberal life, has created a chance in 1925 to put the seed in history of guardianship that has come to date with the constitution of 1982 coups. The Dolmabahçe agreement, which will provide permanent peace among identities in Turkey, not for coupgers, but for public policy, is an expression of a democratic understanding that has the potential to condemn any monogamous, deniability and understanding of the centre of assimilation. However, this democratic understanding and the call for lasting peace are based on the political will as a legacy of the coupist understanding, monotheism, denial. With the denial of the Dolmabahçe agreement, our country has been brought into a great atmosphere of war. In this atmosphere, a proposal imposed by political will is a regime change. This regime, which is called the Turkish presidency system, wants to disable the will of parliament, establish monotheism, create its own existence through salting the separation of forces. We are offering a democratic, liberal, egalitarian proposal against this proposal. Our party proposed a powerful democratic parliamentary system, based on the authenticity of plural identities, surrendering the rights of all identities, preventing possible authoritarianization by placing authority on the ground, allowing the public to govern itself for itself, challenging the separation of forces. We have to say that our new constitutional proposal, based on the democratic, libertarian, egalitarian understanding that our people's mosaic of identities needs, provides the most appropriate solution to Turkey's historical or current problems. The owners of the presidential proposal, which is central to monotheism, raises the issue of immunity against us, the owner of the liberal proposal based on the position of management. The issue of immunity is certainly not the issue of a law, but the fact that our democratic constitutional offer to the people of Turkey is wanted in antidemocratic and illegal ways. The issue of immunity is to build an authoritarian regime, which will prevent Turkey from ruling with its democratic and libertarian understanding based on its position, which will eliminate the separation of powers in one person, which will exclude the people from governance without a political subject. In this regard, the discussion that began in the matter of immunity concerns both our present and our future. As a matter of fact, it is possible to see the way the proposed proposal affects our social life in the lives of the children in Cizre, Silvio, Sur, Nusaybin, Turkey, Şırnak, Silvan, Idil. More than 600 people who have died today because of the blockades that have lasted nine months in which we celebrated National Sovereignty and Children's Day have lost their lives, as well as 102, 99, and 868 people who have died so far. Children can't even go out today and play in the garden of their homes, let alone celebrate the festival in Sur. Children are being slaughtered inside or in front of houses. The two-year-old Esmeralda Shalk, who was killed by a cannon shot, is only two of the three-month-old Miray babies in Cizre. The 10-year-old Cemile Arakga, who was kept in the refrigerator, went to buy bread in Sur. Helin Hasret Shen, 12 years old, whose funeral was not allowed to be taken by his family. Rozerin Çukur is the destruction of the government's blockade policy in this country. In the wake of government policies, universal declarations protecting children in every part of our country, the European Union's contracts protecting children, the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights, are completely suspended. Turkey has become a country where beaches are hit by refugee babies. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We have become the home of those lost children who work in workshops, in fields, sell handkerchiefs on the streets, who are hundreds of miles away from home, who are exposed to poverty and poverty and poverty in this country, who live in the most violent forms of neglect, abuse, abuse, rape and violence, who are locked up in prisons and tortured in prisons. It is the legal and moral and political responsibility of the political institution to take the necessary steps to return from this negative picture. All political parties, especially the ruling party, must once again remember these responsibilities. On this occasion, I repeat our promise of a fight to bring our country, both for children and for democratic politics in Turkey, into the light of all identities and social areas, especially our children, to the commonwealth, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-04-23sit01spe0007par0111	The chairman of the National Movement Party and Parliamentary Group Chairman Osmaniye MP Mr. State Bahçeli is in charge. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-04-23sit01spe0008par0114	Mr. President, Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute our beloved nation and your high delegation with love and respect. We are gathered together to commemorate the 96th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with no and no respect. On April 23, 1920, the course of history changed, and the Turkish nation gained its will with tremendous accuracy, and their desire for its will was built in Ankara, and the nationalist spirit and consciousness was rooted under this blessed roof. On a Friday exactly ninety-six years ago, in the ancient stone building in Ulus, under the oil lamps, on the wooden rows, with prayer and prayer, the torch of salvation was lit. The opening of the First Assembly is a new era for our nation, a fresh beginning. At the same time, the beginning is an epiphany of national and historical determination that holds numerous endings for the years that remain. There is no doubt that the honorable representatives of the First Assembly showed superhuman struggle and patience until they arrived in Ankara. In the beginning, they overcame poverty, overcoming difficulties, overcoming obstacles, challenging occupation and captivity, never bringing surrender to their minds and remembering; they ignored the words of their collaborators, and the attacks of traitors. Representatives of the First Assembly have always trusted that there is a great nation in which they have come out of their heart, and they have always believed. They knew that if the national struggle was based on the nation, it could succeed, but if the strong resistance against the seven heifers were combined with the nation, if it was inspired by the nation, it could remain legitimate and eternal. Therefore, the first Parliament is the Turkish nation's symbol of hope, the declaration of existence. The opening of the Grand National Assembly is the final line of retreat for the Turkish nation, the true owner of the Turkish homeland and the will to defend it, the final stop of the search for a solution that began after the years of empire; the end of years of strife, painful destruction and loss. April 23, 1920 is the final and most effective point of our nation's move in a painting of pain and suffering, where the Turkish government is stuck in Anatolia, one by one, losing its control basins. On three continents, we returned to the final homeland, where our memories remained, leaving our martyrs on three continents, spreading our dignity and justice everywhere, scraping our footprints all over the place. We were reborn from our ashes on April 23, 1920, paying for countless migrations. We've made this land our country, we've known honor. We burned the ships; we confirmed and confirmed with our blood that there is no other country to go, to settle, to take refuge. (Applause from MHP rows) I remind you again that this geography that we have been living on for a thousand years is Turkish country, the real owner of this country is the Turkish nation, its name is Turkey, its state is the Republic of Turkey. (Applause from MHP rows) (Turkish nation) is the name of the blessed presence where a thousand years of brotherhood have been added to the memory and heritage of earlier centuries. The Grand National Assembly, which was assembled 90 or six years ago, of course, was based on representations of different social communities. The honorable deputies of the First Assembly came from every profession, every environment, every origin, and they didn't make any issue of it because they were patriots, all aiming for the survival of the Turkish nation. In the first legislature, there were no primitive impulses, no sediment of principle. In the first legislature, there was no interest or interest in taking custody. In the first legislature, there was no tolerance for addiction and captivity. Burdur MP Mehmet Akif Bey and Tunceli MP Dişa Agha have met, Antalya MP Hamdullah Suphi Bey and Mus MP Ilyas Sami Bey have fused, and Ankara MP Mustafa Kemal and Diyarbakır MP Feyzi Gırıkcıoğlu have met, of course, a great sense of unity and solidarity of the first Assembly. Every member of the First Assembly was clustered around national and common values. They didn't plan on scratching IDs and tearing people apart. They did not intend to provoke differences and weaken national ties. They never made it their business to deviate from the path of independence, to get out of the fraternity hoop. Because the MPs who came to Ankara on April 23, 1920, with our nation's approval and election, were on the side of no other choice but to join the public around a nation's national identity, national ideals, a national future. If the national struggle ended in victory, that's the secret behind it. If the enemy boots that have come all the way to Poland have been torn out of the Turkish country, the forces in its plan are the national hearts that have been collectively beating to start with one at a time. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, our Parliament, when Istanbul is invaded and the work of the Parliament-i-Mebusa is impossible, have come with a fountain of hope in the middle of the steppe. With the opening of the First Assembly, the worst disaster in history has been prevented. Oppression, oppression, oppression, and captivity have been dealt with effectively. Against understanding, Mondrosci and Sevrci, the storm that broke from the nation traveled all the way to the Mediterranean when the time came, tearing the mountains apart, not fitting itself. The first Parliament received its power and power from the Turkish nation, the sole owner of sovereignty. His war of independence against imperialist and colonial immorality is therefore legitimate, blessed, unprecedented. The Grand National Assembly was the headquarters of the national struggle. The Grand National Assembly was the democratic decision centre of national will. At that time, many things were written, just like these days, to break national resistance, to accept despair. The government was asked to accept the terms of Sevr. It was spreading what the invaders wanted to do for us. The national struggle was claimed to be robbers and looters. Ankara was said to have led Turkey to disaster. What people of Asia have been able to cope with Europe for centuries, so that we could succeed? The men in Ankara cannot rule even a small tribe. It was said that the national struggle was an adventure, that it could no longer continue. We shouldn't leave our destiny to Ankara. Even those who said, "We must not leave it to Ankara." It was made up that they led the country to a complete collapse, as there were goygoys, bandits, dreamers, slanderers to national struggle heroes. For example, if Edirne and Izmir survive, we will resign from our humanity. Finally, on 9 September 1922, mandarins, rootless, foreign feedings, who were suffering from the national struggle and long - suffering, had found no choice but to make the headline of the Festival of Turkey. The national struggle is a summary of a long, exhausting and scorching process that begins with Mondros, which expands until after Lausanne; there are many aspects of the internal and external, and the wars are only the warm side of the process. We will fight until we destroy Turkey, Turkey no longer exists. The colonialists, who say, have been stopped by the national struggle, and the honor of this is primarily the great Turkish Assembly. Our Parliament, which builds armies, rules armies, represents the rights of the Turkish nation to the mortal, is therefore a veteran and has been awarded this title with sacrifices. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The honorable representatives of the First Assembly have shown that as long as the nation lives, there will be no end of hope, no end of hope, no excuse for impossibleness. The ways of separation have never been searched, and it has been decided in a thousand years of brotherhood, bound by the power of living together. The spirit root of our first Assembly, the noble members, is the source of attitudes and actions that will serve as an example for us in the representation of our beloved nation these days. With these feelings and thoughts, I pray for the mercy of God to all the first legislators, the founding heroes and our beloved martyrs, including Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our state. Besides, on this holiday as a children's holiday, he celebrates our children's holidays separately, and I pay my respects to all of them. As I end my speech, I salute you all once more, and wish you the blessing of the 96th anniversary of our great House.
tbmm-2016-04-23sit01spe0009par0130	[[Standing ovations from MHP rows, the EC PARTY and the Council of Ministers welcome]] Thank you, Mr. President. Members of parliament, talks have been completed on behalf of Turkey's Grand National Assembly's 96th anniversary and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, and on the meaning and significance of the day. I'd like to make a point or two. As I said in my speech at the beginning of the merger, we started celebrating April 23rd at 9:00 a.m. by putting a wreath on the Ataturk Memorial in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. At 9:15, we visited the Memorial, and I signed his personal book. At 10.00, we attended ceremonies in the First Assembly, and at 11:30, I accepted the celebrations at the Grand National Assembly Hall of Turkey. 14. We're just about to complete the special combination that started at 00. Unlike the previous years, this year was decided not to receive reception at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey tonight, due to the terror incidents and the memory of our martyrs as well as the sensitiveness of the public. On 1 October 2011, the opening reception of the first year of the 24th term was not held on 1 October 2012, the opening reception of the third year of the 24th term, and the opening of the second year of the 25th term on 1 October 2015 as a tribute to the memory of our martyrs. Again, for the same reason, our Chief of Staff was sensitive and went to some arrangements at the August 30th Victory Day events where he was preparing to celebrate, and cancelled the August 30th Victory Day reception in 2011. In addition, the president's decision to cancel the reception scheduled for October 29, 2014 because of the mine accident in Karaman. The April 23rd ceremony was celebrated with enthusiasm, as it were in the previous years, only to cancel the reception as a tribute to the memory of our beloved martyrs. I'm presenting this to you, the information of the esteemed lawmakers and the public. In the meantime, I would like to point out that there is no civil war in Turkey; in Turkey, there is action of security against terrorists who are opposed to peace and security and our unity, according to the law. It has to be known that the welfare of our nation, the survival of our state, the indivisible integrity of our country, and the fluctuation of our moon-star flag are our main objective in our heavens, and those who are outside that goal must know that they cannot and will never achieve such goals. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] In accordance with the decision taken, it is Monday (April 25th 2016) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 14 p.m. on Monday (April 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00. Thank you.
