tbmm-2016-08-19sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit01spe0002par0003	Mr. President, give priority to the friends who were here last night.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit01spe0001par0004	Can I make a promise to the morning friends first?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit01spe0002par0005	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit01spe0001par0006	What are we going to do with the Court? Let's think of a beauty. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem (Islamic Party) who wants to talk about veterans and families of martyrs. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit01spe0003par0014	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding our veterans and our fallen families. I salute the Veterans' House. Dear MPs, dear families of martyrs, respected veterans, precious veterans, and the saintly Turkish nation who watches us over television, it's not easy for a piece of land to become a homeland. A piece of land, which has been blood-greed by martyrs, is called "vatan" (a piece of land). The country is at the top of the values that make the nation. Our heavenly homeland has been protected by our ancestors for hundreds of years with their lives and blood. Without a country, people, without a nation, you don't become a state. Deputies, members of the Turkish Armed Forces and Turkish Police, and any illegal organisation targeting the undivided integrity of its country and its nation, peace and security of the nation, creation, crime and criminal are named after those who are on duty or who are not in office or on duty, who have been killed or injured. On the night of the July 15 coup attempt on all of our memories, those who lost their lives in front of tanks for the sake of their own country are our martyrs; those who were wounded on the night of the coup are our veterans. Dear lawmakers, the highest of the authorities is no doubt martyrs and veterans. Without our martyrs and veterans, there is no country. The families of our heroes who willingly gave their lives for the sake of our country are a trust. We must listen to the righteous cries of our martyrs and veterans, who have an exceptional place in the heart and social memory of our beloved Turkish nation, and also protect the rights of our heroes' families. Our government has various rights to our martyrs and to our veterans and relatives, but the regulations are inadequate due to changing economic conditions. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share an e-mail with you: I was injured in a shootout with separatist terrorists during my service, and I'm living with a terrorist bullet in my heart. The terrorist bullet can't be taken from my body medically, and it'll be in the ground with me. Despite living like this, I'm not a veteran. I'm sure a lot of people like this and this, living with terrorist bullets and shrapnel in their body, losing sight, losing one leg, missing one leg, missing their fingers, and thus losing their physical and psychological health were not considered veterans. Our veterans, with about 27,000 survivors who returned unharmed from the war, are unable to take advantage of some of the rights our male veterans have. In addition, our veterans in Korea and Cyprus have been awarded the Istrillal Medal and a monthly pension of honor. However, there are inequalities between those with social security and those who are not. Dear MPs, for the sake of our country's indivisible integrity and independence and support of our nation, thousands of soldiers, police and the precious members of our beloved nation have become martyrs or veterans, especially the PKK, ISIS and Å. Our families who have lost their most valuable asset to the cause of their homeland, and our veterans and relatives, who have been left in need of their families for the rest of their lives, have said, "God bless you, despite everything." It is our duty and duty as a state to restore the eternal souls of our martyrs and to show the respect they deserve, honor, and social security to these heroes who put their country ahead of their children, their bodies, their health. The news of the martyr is not interrupted. In our hospitals, the number of wounded is increasing. That's the day the Veterans are needed, we have to give them their rights. If we live in peace in this land, where blood is shed and taken, it's because of our martyrs and veterans. Dear MPs, our martyrs are enlightened, our veterans are honored soldiers. We need to remember that the Republic of Turkey is a veteran state, and the Turkish nation is a veteran nation, and this is the Veteran Assembly under its roof. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we belong to this country either to the beloved Turkish nation or to no one. The Republic of Turkey is ours, and with that consciousness, we are here, and we will continue to be. I remember with mercy and gratitude all our heroic martyrs, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, and I ask patience for their families. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I pray for immediate healing to our veterans who are being treated at the hospital, and I say God bless our soldiers and our men of security who are fighting on their duty. May the Lord keep our unity and our resurrection. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit01spe0004par0029	Thank you, Your Grace. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Khakat MP Ancient Durmaz, who asked about workers who were victims of privatisation. You've been lucky to talk off the agenda this week, Mr. Ancient. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit01spe0005par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, a friend of ours had a special case that day...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit01spe0004par0037	Yeah, there was a change.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit01spe0005par0038	Yeah. Mr. President, my dear friends, I wish our martyrs who have died in our provinces of Elazıg, Bitlis, Van and Diyarbakir, the mercy of Genab, the grieving family and our nation, and the immediate healing of our wounded, our veterans. Dear friends, the two major power plants of our province, which have been said to be privatised for years, are finally privatised by AKP power on September 5th. Of course, Tokat lost a lot when he said privatisation, and the people who lived there, who left the land where he was born because he couldn't get enough, the farmers, the workers, the movers, the movers, the tradesmen carry it in his heart. Dear friends, the Almus Plant, the late Prime Minister of the era, the Almus Dam, which then opened in 1969 by our President Süleyman Demirel, was a serious source of electricity for our country, the first hydropower plant for our province and then in 1989, the Rooted HES plant, which was created by the ANAP of the late Turkut Özal Prime Ministerate, was then produced by pipe that year, with the highest jeans in Almus, down from 800 to 300. Here, hundreds of workers, but most importantly, in Almus and Niksar, one of our two most immigrating districts, these plants were a major source of employment with workers and the local sub-industrials, but with this privatisation, our locals are losing it. Dear friends, the valleys of those streams were brutally destroyed in Tokat. Unfortunately, those CED reports were given without proper examination, given the capacity of the local people, and the slap lost much of its nature at this point. The feature of the radical HESEs is a highly profitable hydroelectric plant, which is a multi-profit project that can produce 1 kilowatt of water from 1 cubic meter of water, but it turns out that the AKP's powers will be facing a lot of unemployment -- one part of the republic's gains, one part of its economics -- and will be causing serious loss in the face of the day, in a hurry to save the day, and with the two of them, there will be two of them working workers, officers and a lot of subcontractors who will be facing unemployment -- a significant number of them -- four/C. We say that this distortion in privatisation, so to speak, is not right for our country to sell a hydropower plant, so to speak. We are opposed to these crooked privatisations, and we are reluctant to allow the victims of the workers there. My dear countrymen, after this coup on the evening of July 15th, when we lived together and shared our resistance, we lived together in a very serious union and the thirst of unity in the country, but the continuation of this must be carried out. The heroic Turkish Armed Forces, the institution we know as the Prophet's stove, were severely hurt, demoralized. It is in the Lord's hands to honor these people. Let's all call it the Third Bridge, the Mehmethik Bridge, and let's give our heroic Armed Forces some moral support. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit01spe0006par0047	Thank you, Mr. Durmez. The third statement outside the agenda belongs to İstanbul MP Serap Yaşar (Islamic MP Serap Yasar) who wants to talk about the coup attempt on July 15, 2016 and the ongoing terrorist attacks. Here you go, Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit01spe0007par0052	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment regarding the July 15 coup attempt and ongoing terrorist actions. I salute our Veteran Assembly. After the coup attempt, many police, soldiers and civilians have been killed and many have been injured in terrorist attacks in Diyarbakır, Van, Elazig, Bitlis. I wish our martyrs God's mercy and good health for our wounded. We know that the struggle between good and evil is as old as human history. The July 15 coup attempt was also an epiphany of this struggle; thankfully, the leadership of our Commander-in-Chief, the courage of our Prime Minister, the noble resistance of our beloved nation, did not achieve its goal. Our nation has lived and lived many, many, many, many, many examples of this struggle in this land. With the permission of God, he will prevail in this struggle today, as in his history. In our recent history, we all remember that those who planned the coup on February 28th said it would take a thousand years, with great confidence. Thank God, not a thousand years, not even ten years. Today, we don't know how long a process has been planned for the July 15 coup attempt planned by the terrorist organization, but given the circumstances, it will continue for a while. When we look at acts of terrorism, it's seen as a single source of bad accounts, and they're continuing to operate. On the 15th of July, our nation, using its own mind and glory, in the vast love of homeland, using tools and tools that no one could imagine, without a pin in its pocket against tanks, balls, guns, and weapons, has won an unprecedented victory and has nullified the plans of the coupgers. During my visits to the families of the martyrs and veterans, I would particularly like to commemorate two of our women's gases; one of them, Vahide Ermetlioğlu is still in intensive care at the Chapa Medical School Hospital, whose leg has been amputated, his wife Mehmet Ermetlioğlu has no idea that her husband is a martyr, and his 15-year-old son is escorting him to the hospital. In the same family, it's not an unbearable pain. Another, Turkan Moder himself is a veteran, his wife is a martyr, his son is a veteran. I mean, I'd like to ask, is it really so much pain in a single family, so bearable? Frankly, I'm telling myself that, and I'm telling the people who are trying to give us some advice. I want them to have a little empathy. But I also heard that each one of them, without exception, was acting consciously that every gas could have been martyred that night, and our veterans expressed regret that martyrdom was a work of fortune, not for themselves. I'd like to point out that our martyrs and veterans have put their names in the history of mankind through their struggle to defend their homeland. The coupters and their supporters will be remembered with hate. Our country is the only country that has been exposed to any threat to the world, including immigration, terrorism, and finally a coup attempt. The recent acts of terrorism in western countries have disturbed the balance and mental health of all the people living there, especially their rulers. France has announced its suspension of the European Convention on Human Rights, and has extended its extraordinary state. However, not many of our European friends have given us clear, strong support for the coup. More than support, from day one, they've been trying to teach us a lesson in democracy, talking from the top of the screen, trying to give us advice. The Republic of Turkey is a state of law. He has the right to fight with moderate measures to deal with the danger he is exposed to, and in that framework he will take his precautions, and he will continue to take them. The Western world says they are concerned about measures taken after the coup attempt. The aim of such criticism is to underestimate and try to overlook the events of Turkey. More than what we've experienced, the fact that they're curious about the state of the enemies of democracy is an indication of how much they value democracy. Our citizens, our nation, have rewritten the history of democracy in its noble struggle on July 15th. Those who address the West as the cradle of democracy in books will now need to go to a change of address. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] After July 15th, this address is in Turkey. This success is our nation's. I salute our beloved nation, our Veterans Assembly, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit01spe0008par0067	Thank you, Mr. Yasar. Congressmans, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the MPs who are entering the system. I'm reading the names of the MPs I'm promising: Mr. Ilicali, Mr. Male, Mr. Akin, Mr. Kılıç, Mr. Eşem, Mr. Kayşoglu, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Yurdakul, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Köse, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Bektasoğlu. Mr. Ozkan, Mr. Göker. Mr. Ilıcalı, come in. We have a hot issue, just a minute... I'm taking a five-minute break due to a technical malfunction.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0008par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'll give my word to the MPs who entered the system. From now on, Congressman, please go back into the system. Mr. Ilıcalı, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0009par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, which will be inaugurated next week, well done for our country. I'd like to thank those who have passed the job, especially our President and Prime Minister, the bureaucrat, the contractor, the worker. On the other hand, the Ottoman Gazi Bridge, which was opened before Ramadan's Day and presented to our nation's service, states how important it is to our country, and I would like to correct some of the mistakes that have been raised in parliament regarding the cost of the bridge. The Osman Gazi Bridge is part of the 433km Gebze-Orhangazi-Izmir Highway Project. Therefore, the entire project must be considered as a whole, considering the costs involved. The project's production cost is $6.3 billion at 2009 prices, with the cost of financing totalling $8 billion. The most advantageous for investors is the bridge in the project. The number to pay on the highway is 5 cents per kilometre of car equivalent value. Therefore, the repayment period of bridge costs is not a year and a half, but more than ten years. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0010par0013	Thank you, Mr. Ilican. Dear Man...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0011par0016	Mr. President, thank you. During the extraordinary process of terrorism and violence, we feel that the House should work in a process where we are governed by laws, but I think today we will all complete the last day of this term together. And we have an important holiday ahead of us, a religious holiday, the Feast of Sacrifice. After July 15th, we'll crown the will, the compromise, on this last day, together as four party groups, giving our pensioners a salary bonus on this holiday. The House is capable of anything if it wants to be. Let's do it by Parliament's will; let Parliament make this decision, and let the Council of Ministers give a salary bonus for our pensioners, who are in great need of this religious festival, this Eid Day, so that we have pensioners who can't pay their grandchildren an allowance. We have to treat our pensioners with fairness, we have to treat them with respect, we have to keep our promises. We, the Republican People's Party, are in the mood for this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0012par0019	Thank you. Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0013par0022	Mr. President, thank you. Unfortunately, we get reports of explosions or terrorist attacks from all over our country every day. Our country has suffered a lot from terrorism, and we have expressed our proposals every time that we will support the government for what is to be done within the law in order for terror to end as soon as possible, to bring peace to our country. We insisted that the wrongs made in foreign policy would lead to terrorism in our country. Balıkesir is one of our most terrorist martyrs. Our brothers, Omar Faruk Bol, Tuncay Küyın, Sercan Özkul, Mustafa Serin, Turgut Solak, Engin Balcı, Ramadan, Feat İldiz, Özcan Mutil, Aycan Özdil, Atilla Kaya, Gökhan Bakır, Mehmet Kutlu, Hasan Talaj, Ahmet Semerci and many others to our martyrs. Also, today is the funeral of our martyr, Mesut Demir. I can't agree because I'm here. My condolences to all my countrymen. I'm sorry for the loss of our country, of our nation.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0014par0026	Thank you. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0015par0029	Thank you. August is a month of triumph in our history. It was conquered in August 1064 by Kars and its surrounding Sultan Alparslan, with its famous Ani Castle with its Byzantine walls. The conquest of Asia Minor leads to the most important events in our history as a result. With this conquest, our nation has been granted an eternal home and has been founded on this land by the Anatolian Seljucians, the Ottoman State and the Republic of Turkey. From the 4th century to the 11th century, our ecclesiastist had made raids to Asia Minor. I pray to God for the mercy of our martyrs and veterans, who have opened the gates of Asia Minor to us, that he may give us the honor of living in faith and loyalty and unity and unity in the land of Asia Minor, which is entrusted to us.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0014par0031	Thank you. In August, we will also celebrate the August 30th Victory Day. Let us bless Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, who gave us today's republic. [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] Mr. Result...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0016par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. The unemployed are being hired to work for three, six, nine months through İSKUR, which is established for employment. The governor and the governors, who are in charge of these people's employment, are using their rights of appreciation to those who belong to the AKP, acting as AKP mayor and district chief. We don't think that political preferences should be a criteria in the employment of people who need bread and work. What is the crime of our people who do not vote for the AKP? How do you put this injustice to our people into your conscience? On this occasion, I would like to call upon the authorities in our republic founded by the Great Leader Ataturk to act responsibly and to be fair. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0017par0043	Thank you. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0018par0046	Thank you. The government continues to block and read its knowledge of democracy, calling it a social compromise. In training, the transformation continues without slowing down. The Council of Ministers has been granted illegal powers, impacting the environment. In colleges, election is considered a cause of chaos. The parallel treasure law is being brought in. In the end, especially in the bag of laws, there is a policy of death and consenting to malaria. These days, when we have to admire the impacts, we, the opposition, feel compelled to carry out our historical mission so that you will never be deceived again. Therefore, I would like to remind you that the public conscience regarding Bill 411's 75th amendment last night has been disturbed. I demand that this substance, which has disabled environmental controls in order to control our future, our nature, our environment, be reassessed and repealed. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0019par0050	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0020par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. For the Caviar Water Project, which was brought to Adıyaman from Bulam, some officials said they had solved the problem of 50 years old and some 200 years of water. The Adıyaman Water Project, which was completed in November 2011, was inaugurated by Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who was then Prime Minister. At the opening, AKP lawmakers called this project a crazy project on the scale of Adıyaman. I address the AKP government: Enough madness, let's be realistic. In this summer's heat, the people of Adıyaman can't even find water to drink in their homes. There's a twelve-hour water shortage a day. At the moment, both Adıyaman is in the centre and the bulam area where the Havsheri water is being brought in is a very serious water problem. We've solved the 50 - year - old water problem. The project, you call it, hasn't found five years. I invite those very ambitious officials to resolve this water problem as soon as possible. It is not acceptable for Adıyaman (Adıyaman), whose three sides are surrounded by water, to experience a shortage of drinking water, let alone water farming.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0019par0055	Mr. Yurdakul...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0021par0057	Mr. Minister of Health Recep Akdağ and Finance Minister Naci Agbal are all health workers and 350,000 assistants from the National Movement Party. First: A new number of health personnel to be appointed by the bill adopted at midnight last night, not 22,000, but at least 66,000 in our proposal as the National Movement Party, before the festival, before the People's Staff Audition Test in 2016, before the October 2016, these health workers will be given good news. Second, it is the fulfillment of years of the promise of wearout for all health workers, especially at election time, and the fact that their return capital is reflected in retirement. The third: We ask that all additional tasks, such as the duty service or the duty service, be referred to the Minister of Health and Mr. Naci Agbal, that it be best to act by taking their advice and suggestions before consulting our family physicians before asking them to do them. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0022par0062	Thank you. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0023par0065	I'm asking Mr. Prime Minister: With the new academic year and shortly before the start of the year of education, there is a danger of failing education from academics whose detention, detention and arrest process have been launched. What is the number of professors and professors who have been suspended, terminated, and arrested in universities that have been closed across Turkey? What's the number of teachers suspended and arrested? How many academics have been investigated, how many have been suspended, and how many have been ordered to be detained in unclosed universities throughout Turkey? What measures do you intend to take to prevent education and education from failing? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0022par0067	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0024par0069	In our country, agricultural producers have been victimised in wheat, corn, barley, and other products, because our hard-working farmer, our peasant, the land crop office, did not buy. The sunflower harvest has begun. One ton of sunflowers, which were traded on the free market three years ago at 1,600 TL, are now 1,300-1. It is processed between $400. The Ministry of Agriculture must support the troops. When 1 ton of sunflowers are processed under 1,700 TL, our farmer is a victim. Acquisitions of sunflowers, which are the largest source of livelihood for our farmers in our towns, Samsun, Bafra, Alaçam, Vezirkörü, Havza, Ladik, Karak. Supporting agricultural products means our country's strengthening in Istanbul and the economy. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0022par0071	Thank you. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0025par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. As the current problems in our educational system cannot be resolved just as we are about to enter the new school year, new problems have been added. Here are the problems of students in closed universities, housing problems of newly settled students, students who cannot settle, and, most importantly, students who cannot be placed in a school after TEOG exams are forced to attend imam-hatip schools. In addition to mandatory religious lessons put into practice after the coup of September 12th, the implementation of mandatory imam-gathering schools in these ruling periods also took place. It is as clear as day that our chronicized education problems will never be solved and that we will not be able to survive this institutional collapse in education. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0026par0077	Mr. Dogan...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0027par0079	Mr. President, there was an armed attack on Istanbul's Weird Dede Cemevi Derkaşı a few days ago. A very extensive investigation into this attack, which is an effort to create a full Alevi-Sunni conflict, and it needs to be answered as to where the work is at, whether the attackers or attackers have been detected. The matter is extremely important. I'd like Mr. Home Secretary to respond.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0026par0080	Thank you. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0028par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. We are receiving complaints from various districts and districts of Turkey because municipalities have given up public bus transport or have turned over services to companies such as veterans, martyr relatives, disabled and elderly citizens who do not agree to move for free. For example, the municipality of Bulancak, Giresun, has also removed its official vehicle from the service and has single-sidedly cancelled transport services. Our citizen, Cemil Fruitci, who lives in the district whose son has a disability report like himself, states that despite the law and regulations, they have failed to benefit from the municipality's service. There are examples of his petitions to the governorship and relevant units. In this regard, we demand that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, send a statement reminding the municipalities of their duties. No one has the right to abolish the use of free travel rights defined by the law. It's one of the basic duties of securing and preventing our citizens from being victimized by the social state. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0029par0086	Thank you. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0030par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. The pain of the martyrs in the terrorist attacks at Van, Elazig, and Bitlis, has broken our hearts again. But unless the source of this problem is investigated, there's always going to be bad news somewhere. It has been seen in many countries such as Spain, Ireland, Colombia, the Philippines, where the chronic problem cannot be solved with a weapon. A few years ago, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu had decided to lay down arms by a terrorist organization called the Moro Islamic Liberation Front in the Philippines during a process in which Diplo Haydar Berk was head of the United Nations. As a result, the problem in the Philippines was largely resolved. Why can't those who lead to resolving problems in other countries show the same will for their own countries? I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0031par0093	Thank you. Mr. Özkan? No. Mr. Göker...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0032par0097	Mr. President, under the State of Emergency decree, I would like to request that seven teachers, four teachers and registered teachers from Education-SEN who have been suspended on the initiative of my constituency district of Burdur, be reinstated as soon as possible because they have invested money in the bank or sent their child to private school. For these individuals, it is not acceptable to be accused, let alone guilty. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0031par0099	Thank you. Actually, we're out of numbers, but only the congressman is left, so I'm gonna make him a promise. Mr. Tuncer...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0033par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, our country has successfully emerged from a coup attempt. First of all, I'd like to request that the criminal-criminal distinction be performed in a very precise, jeweler's scale sensitivity and not be victimized by those who are truly innocent. Again, although the work on the Amasian environment is said to begin, no work has been done until now, even after 11 or 12 years. This is amasian traffic, and the people of Amasya are very victimised. I demand immediate construction of the Amasian freeway. Again, 30 miles [50 km] between the Mechitsuru Crossroad between Amasya-Sorum and the Corrum-Mejitsu Crossroad has still not been made a double road, and many have been victims, causing traffic accidents. In this double road study, we're going to have to keep the promises...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0034par0108	Thank you, Mr. Tuncer. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who are making demands. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0035par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. In a speech on 13 August, Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım said that we can't take the measure here since 1973, the measure for us is December 17th and 25th. The Prime Minister's statement initially ignores the need to act on his perspective yesterday, today and tomorrow. Because there must be a yesterday, a present, and there will be tomorrow. Seting the starting point as 17-25 December 2013 first makes the fight personal, reduces it to a AKP-cam fight. However, we also see the need to deal with understanding that allows the terrorist organization to settle in public positions while dealing with people. If you accept the measure as December 17-25, what will we do about Ergenekon, the Sledgehammer, and the different conspiracy cases that allow the terrorist organization to settle into military positions? There's no way to forget all this. Since it happened before December 17th-25th, it means ignoring the terrorist organization's activities, which leaves the struggle with ▪ unfinished. The government has passed a test of intimacy on this subject. As has happened in the fight against the terrorist organization so far, we, the National Movement Party, will make every effort and support. Especially since the evening of the 15th of July...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0036par0116	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0035par0117	...we all know about the atmosphere and the atmosphere, and our entire nation is expecting a great deal from this atmosphere. The government must carefully refrain from giving such an image as a ruling party-congregation fight in the fight against the government. This struggle is the struggle for national unity, unity, democracy, law and independence, and I stress again that the fight against ▪ must be fought by the perspective of yesterday, today and tomorrow. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0036par0119	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0037par0122	Mr. President, thank you. Many companies have been seized and trustees have been appointed as trustees in Turkey under the State of Emergency, with decrees issued after the July 15 coup attempt. There is also an approach to public opinion that these decisions are positive decisions in order to eliminate the economic power of this terrorist organisation, but in two ways, you have to be very careful: One, you have to be very careful with the trustees who are appointed, and you also have to pay attention to how these trustees function. For example, Lydia's canning was seized in Manisa Turgutlu. The trustee of Lydia's Conservatory says the company will pay off its debts to the banks, but will not be able to pay off its debts to the citizens at this stage, and that Manisa is being punished, even though Gördes, Demirci, Turkutlu, Ahmetli, is now a victim of this coup attempt by this organization. The trustee must first pay the individual farmer's debts. There's a big infinitive in Manisa, in our counties. Another thing is that in Manisa, the farmer's trouble with grapes. Grapes are our basic livelihood. Incorrect agricultural policies, developments that have closed the foreign policy Syrian market, the Russian market, with the fall of the Russian plane, and what happened last year in the European Union with the remains crisis, the ton of grapes, 6,000,6,500 lira, today at $2,500...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0038par0126	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0037par0128	Thank you. At the point where the Russian market, the Syrian market, the European Union market, is facing serious difficulties, the grapes, which were sold for 6,000 liras last year, cannot find buyers for 2,500-3000 lira. The grape producers in the bank's interest clamp are also suffering from serious problems. Through the General Assembly, we'd like to get the government's attention on this. If no serious measures are taken, the victims of both our grape maker and our farmers who are supplying the trustees are really destroying our peasants and farmers in Manisa. We invite the government to be sensitive about this.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0039par0131	Thank you, Mr. Special. We're going on the agenda...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0040par0133	Mr. President, we have a request.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0039par0134	Okay. Mr. River, I didn't see you. As acting chief of the group, please. Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0041par0138	Mr. President, especially after the coup process, after the coup attempt, some security measures have been taken in the country, and it's possible to feel them, but the areas where security measures have been felt the most since this coup attempt have been the prisons. Prisons are the mirrors of a country, and what happens here reveals the real state and state of the country. Mr. President, we've been getting complaints that have been going on for days. In particular, the treatment of prison to prison during exiles and exiles does not search the September 12th junta. You know, Turkey calls itself violent in prisons on September 12th, and talks about what that brutality cost Turkey, and we all agree. Now, it's possible to say that things happen at the same minimum. Sincan number 2. Lu F Type 2 Tekirdağ. There are serious allegations that they were tortured by 58 people who were sent to the Lu F-type. These allegations -- the alleged owners -- are the information that we received from the Federation of Arrested Families, Solidarity Associations. Mr. President, there are very serious allegations of systematic torture every day in the same prisons, including beatings, and these allegations are increasing a little more every day. If necessary measures are not taken, a new violence can happen here, a new tragedy can happen. Prisons are invisible wells of society, and no one knows what's going on here. As a prisoner, I can tell you that his voice has become the most important tool to be heard from here, I'm afraid. The measures for this need to be taken immediately. Another important issue is the issue of sick prisoners. The issue of sick prisoners has kept this country's agenda busy. The patient is not a temporary healer, but a terminal patient who has a few months to live. They are required to spend the rest of their lives outside with their families and at least have a comfortable death, nothing more.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0042par0143	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. River. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0041par0145	In this regard, we have been informed that our friend Mehmet Nur Çelebi's illness has now moved to a more advanced stage and is almost on his deathbed. There must also be necessary measures in this regard. We think it's a matter of public conscience that prevents the release of sick prisoners through security measures. This needs to be evaluated immediately, and the release of sick prisoners, and the treatment opportunities for the rest of the patients need to be created. He's one of them. He has to live out his intestines, and he's still under arrest, I'm afraid. These are the issues that occupy our agenda and are now in our purview of responsibility. These need to be answered immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit02spe0043par0148	Thank you, Mr. River. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, there are return centres in Adana, Antalya, Aydın, Bursa, Çanakkale, Edirne, Erzurum, Gaziantep, İstanbul, İzmir, Çırıkkale, Kırklareli, Tekirdağ and Van. Many NGOs have drawn up reports of human rights violations and physical deficiencies regarding these centers. The Turkish Human Rights Institution's report also states that minimum human rights standards have not been met at the send-back centers. The 17-year-old case of Lütfullah Tajik, who was caught in Iğdır, trying to enter Turkey in 2014, also laid out problems with the resuscitation centers. After the capture of Lütfollah Tajik, Van was sent to the Repatriation Center, where he received a transfer for medical examinations and claimed to have been hit at the send-back center after he lost his life in the hospital. In its report "The Guardian of Europe" published on December 16, 2015, after the International Amnesty signed a Reception Agreement between Turkey and the European Union, Turkey also reportedly held refugees and asylum seekers in our country at ease. The report states that hundreds of refugees and asylum seekers that Turkey has captured in the western borders since September have been transferred to the centers established in southern and eastern provinces, where the people who were placed in these camps have been forced to be held, some refugees and asylum seekers have been handcuffed for days, battered and not known in Turkish, but have been found to be forced to sign papers in Turkish. Turkey is in its position as a country that has the largest refugee population in the world with about 300,000 refugees and refugees from some 2.2 million registered asylum seekers and other countries, the report said by September of this year that the main human rights problems faced by refugees and asylum seekers in Turkey are not involved in illegal detention and deportation. The report claims that 3 billion euros from the European Union will be used to fund the programme for illegal detention and return. Several cases of physical abuse and abuse have been reportedly reportedly blocked from the outside world, including the families and lawyers of refugees and asylum seekers who have been held captive and handcuffed for a week. For all these reasons, we propose and propose the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission on Articles 104, 105 of the Constitution, on behalf of Article 104, and 105, in order to examine the situation of the return centers and to determine the right violations of the rights and to carry out the necessary work. [[Malatya]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Slap]] 6) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] 11) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] 20) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Denizli]] [[Samsun]] 23) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] 24) Brült Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkish art music, Turkish folk music, very loud music, and the doubts about the artist's intern exam have shaken the trust of the institution. In an examination organised by the TRT and submitted by hundreds of candidates, I shall make it necessary for the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution 98th Amendment, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Civil Charter, in order to investigate the benchmark of the winners of the examination. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[İzmir]] 4) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] 8) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[Slap]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] 19) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Samsun]] 23) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Tripoli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] Turkish art music organised by TRT, Turkish folk music, very loud music, ▪tonmayster Τ, interns are claimed to be first-degree relatives and even children of those on the selective board, where 6,000 people have applied for the exam. The efforts of our citizens applying for the exam are being taken away, and it is now registered by the public to prove that AKP's torpedo democracy has won jobs. Thanks to AKP's torpedo assignments, many of the AKP's relatives were employed in public only because they were close to the AKP (AKP) or because they were not tested or tested. The turning of AKP borough and borough agencies into almost employment and employment institutions has been found several times in the media. A scandal in our country, where KPS scandals have not yet been revealed, which has not yet been announced without a test, has also been reflected in Turkish art music, Turkish folk music, very loud music, ▪tonmayster, an intern's exam. Turkish art music, Turkish folk music, very loud music, ▪tonmayster Τ, hundreds of candidates who took the student artist's exam were not announced after the examination, and the relatives of those who formed the selective board are alleged to have passed the exam. One of the candidates who won the exam claimed that before the examinations began, a concert poster identified him as a TRT Izmir Radio law artist, but after the media reported this information, removed the poster on his personal social media account. A person who has won the exam is alleged to have taken office at the TRT before the exam. Many world-renowned artists with expertise and world-renowned skills have failed the test as the selectors and AKP people pass their exams. The AKP's torpedo assignments led to a period of "closer" instead of merit in public institutions. This latest scandal at TRT has hurt the public conscience and undermined the trust of thousands of citizens. It is imperative that parliamentary research be opened, due to the determination of those responsible for this scandal and the investigation of the factors responsible for this scandal. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to protect the life and property security of truck drivers who have been left on hold since 14/12/2015 at the Habur Border Gate, and have been left in a state of emergency and have been abroad, I demand the opening of Parliament investigation under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to quickly and effectively resolve their problems. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Slap]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Balıkesir]] 8) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[40s.]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] 18) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Denizli]] [[Samsun]] 21) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] 22) Brült Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] The increasingly violent events in the Southeast Anatolian region have a profound impact on economic and social life. The border gates are closed without measures, without preparation for trucks and truck drivers to cross the border. Trucks and trucks that exit the border by legal means must be secured by the state. It is important that foreign trade companies, truck and truck drivers, be informed quickly in the direction of public order regarding security risks that may or may occur abroad. The creation of a more methodical structure beyond the work of victims of truck and truck drivers who went out of bounds, such as a blessing, and the establishment of a system that would minimize the victims of truck and truck drivers in extraordinary conditions. The state's primary duty is to protect the lives and property safety of people who are in charge of life and property, and its obligation is also to remain outside the country's borders. At this point, the government has no right to close the border crossings and put the safety of truck drivers and trucks outside the border aside by suggesting events in the southeast. The Habur Border Gate was closed on December 14, 2015 due to events in the southeast, and nearly 7,000 trucks and truck drivers were trapped on the border. It is alleged that drivers were not allowed to pass, that some drivers had their passports confiscated and were forced to move to Turkey illegally. At the Habur Border Gate, truck drivers and truck drivers experience victims in providing food, clothing, and so on. About 150-200 vehicles, aged 20 at Habur Border Gate, have been seized. Some of the drivers' families are in the area of the events in the southeast. It is not human and acceptable for drivers in the Southeast to wait for an uncertain process at the Habur Border Gate. Drivers waiting at the border gate are also lacking in fulfilling their tax and similar financial obligations in Turkey. It is imperative that the government demonstrate the necessary sensitivity to the waiting of thousands of drivers at Habur Border Gate, taking the necessary measures related to security, humanity, social and financial dimensions. The discovery of the victims of thousands of trucks and truck drivers held at the Habur Border Gate since 14 December 2015 is necessary to be investigated by the Commission for the solutions to the problems of truck and truck drivers leaving the country, the demands and the security of lives and property. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers; I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A parliamentary conference entitled Successes and Problems will be held in Belgrade, Serbia, the capital of the Serbian Parliament from 15-16 September 2016, hosted by the European Parliament's Action Unit before Accession. It is announced that a delegation representing the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will attend the meeting on the matter of 28/3/1990 and shall be presented to the General Assembly under the 9th Article of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. All those in favor... those who do not accept... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Joint Foreign and Security Policy and the Joint Security and Defence Policy Conference will be held in Bratislava, the capital of Slovakia, which currently holds the presidency of the European Union from 2-4 September 2016. It is announced that a delegation representing the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will attend the meeting on the matter of 28/3/1990 and shall be presented to the General Assembly under the 9th Article of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. All those in favor... those who do not accept... are accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Friday 19/8/2016 (today), I respectfully submit that the following proposal of our group should be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 28 June 2016, Diyarbakır MP Idris Baluken (2372 rows no. lu) The AKP government's unconstitutional and unprincipled approach to Turkey's foreign policy has been suggested to be read in Friday's 19/8/2016 jointly and to be held in the same date in the same joint session of the parliamentary inquiry proposed to the Turkish Parliament in order to expose its negative results in Turkey's domestic and regional political area. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0043par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In favour of the People's Democratic Party group proposal, Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen will speak first. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0044par0005	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I actually evaluate Turkey's foreign policy on behalf of an opposition party, I think I need to underline the critical, important assessment of Syria for the government. It is very important for the Deputy Prime Minister to admit that Syrian policy has taken great risks and that Turkey has made significant mistakes all along. It's a profit wherever you turn from the wrong, but this confrontation, a confession of this mistake, shouldn't bring new wrongs with it. As Turkey took this position in Syrian policy, it took an unrealistic approach, but its presentation, its claim, based on a very human motive. In Syria, the attitude towards civilians was based on intolerance towards the democratic rights of civilians and the claim that Turkey has shown a sensitive, human-rights-based approach by displaying an active foreign policy towards the rights of the Syrian administration. Of course, wherever there is a human rights violation in the world, it is only right that Turkey demonstrates sensitivity in this regard, and I think that no party would reject active foreign policy here, no party would criticize it. But it's a very inconsistent approach to explain a lot of things with a higher mind, with fiction, with conspiracy, but to read the developments in Syria as if there were no fiction behind it, as if there were no plan at all. Of course, it's completely fictional, completely, you know, just as it's not right to deal with development in countries like an operation organized west of the world, just as it's missing, it's as incomplete to ignore it, to ignore it, to underestimate its size, to read it flat. The world cares about having vision, especially in foreign policy, about caring for values, about having a consistent vision, but it also requires to address power in foreign policy as a reality. In the last five years, Turkey has demonstrated a foreign policy based on reforming the Middle East, setting regimes in the Middle East, designing domestic affairs in countries. However, everyone knew that Turkey had neither the economic political power nor the other deterrent forces nor the ability to act on foreign policy in this regard had the ability to display such an active, interventionist position, its power. As a matter of fact, what we've come to is that this approach has shown that it's quite imaginative, that it's very risky, and that it's driven Turkey to a serious isolation, a serious adventure. Besides, a foreign policy based on the sensitivity of democracy, especially on human rights, needs to be consistent. Criticizing the regime in Syria because it is antidemocratic, but collaborating with Saudi Arabia in the process is in no way explainable. At the end of a relationship with Saudi Arabia until it reaches the start of an Islamic army, I think it's the result of this inconsistency, this conflicting attitude, and this primitive approach. Dear lawmakers, one of Turkey's most fundamental handicaps in foreign policy is that we can easily transform the relationship that we've come to the point of war into an alliance, just as sharp and swift as we're going to be at the eve of war. It is not realistic to expect that all relations will be restored with a few visits and 40 years of friendly position, if the attitude with Russia was wrong, if it was too much, if it was too much, if it was just a few visits. In this sense, it is clear that alliance changes must endure very long strategic planning, and it is very incompatible with the reality of the world to come out of an alliance with anger. In this sense, commitments to the European Union, responsibilities to the Council of Europe, and the rhetoric on this axis will be a serious headache in the coming period. In particular, the autumn summits can bring debates so large that both the European Council meetings and the General Assembly in the United Nations will give Turkey a position of almost monitoring, and, again, Turkey will bring Turkey into a position that is seriously controversial because of the allegations that some of its allies, especially Russia, support Turkey's terrorist organisations in Syria. The relations with Israel are likely to be more detailed today, it will be discussed, but if you're looking at the right-based, again, if you're building your foreign policy on this, then the occupied land, after 1948-1967, the refugee situation, the issue of the embargo for Gaza, without a serious structural change, with a slightly friendly sergeant relationship, there is, of course, the lack of an apology at the end of the process of non-responsibility in diplomatic mechanisms, is also met with doubt in public doubt, without a serious structural change. We are not for Turkey to come to the point of war with every country in the region that it views as a threat or criticises its policies. It is possible for all the peoples in the Middle East to contribute objectively to all the beliefs, all the identities to live together in peace, to contribute actively, but without sides, to use an anti-Semitic language, to express rhetoric that would clearly be a war cry, but then to take commercial relations quite well, but on the other hand, in public, to use a very high-profile expression in society is actually one of the most important risks in foreign policy. In any relationship you cannot account for inside, you must not engage in any foreign policy, you must not engage in any engagements, but in the same way, you must risk the cost, the risk, if you use a word that involves a eunuch and a challenge. Precious lawmakers are one of the most critical issues in relations with the Middle East, relations with the region, I think, as much as it concerns domestic policy, relations with Iraq, relations with Syria, even relations with Iran, and Caucasus. If you are positive about some developments in the north of Iraq, you will also ask for it for the Kurds in Syria, as well as for the Turks in the Balkans, Bulgaria, Greece, and the Kurds in Iraq, Syria. When you don't act like this, the concern and suspicion that you're conducting foreign policy with ethnic or religious criteria gets stronger for everyone. However, if you are taking an approach on the principles and values axis, you will have to approach the more human perspective, regardless of the distinction between Shia and Sunni, with no distinction between Kurd and Turkmen. I'm going to finish with a few more points. One of them is that foreign policy is subject to participation and social control, which is now one of the most important methods of foreign policy in the world -- opening foreign policy to civilian diplomacy, not seeing foreign policy as just interstate relations. Second: Personal relationships in bilateral relationships are about not getting ahead of tradition. Turkey can no longer develop foreign policy with its cold war perceptions, but the only way to become an effective, powerful actor in the Middle East is to establish its own inner peace first and to build its foreign policy based on sociological reality. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0045par0017	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. People's Democratic Party will first speak against the group's proposal, Mr Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0046par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you and the great Turkish nation. Dear friends, I hope we'll come to the end of one more legislature, at the end of five o'clock in the morning, with some deals, with some work, with some work, but what we're going through with this foreign policy from the past to the present is, unfortunately, a major contribution to where we are today. On this occasion, I have been promised to share with you some of our views on foreign policy on this group's proposal. First of all, we thank Mr. Sergeant and Mr. Elitas (Mr. Elitas) for informing our group within the week of a softening process, a smoothing of political style. Of course, we've had a chance to exchange opinions on some issues, but it's not just today's climate, there are some problems from the past to today. Unfortunately, we couldn't tell you just because it was a problem. You said zero problem, but that zero problem became a problem for us. We need to discuss the fact that we're having problems with all our neighbors right now. At this point, we're not thrilled that some mistakes are being seen, some warnings we've made have been justified, because foreign policy is a policy that needs to be national, that needs to be above all interests, that needs to be above politics. Unfortunately, when it comes to individuality, the zigzags, some excesses, the whole thing about false Tephritis is too much. That's got to stop being subjective. In fact, as a state policy, we've seen that the parliamentary diplomacy we've done in the past few weeks has to be handled a little bit wider, as well, after the coup attempt, we've seen our friends from all parties participate. I myself was part of the delegation to London, and the involvement of opposition parties in that diplomacy was an attitude that boosted our country's credibility and credibility in these matters. We have also shared these information and the example of parliamentary diplomacy with fellow officials. Hopefully this will continue, this understanding will continue, and foreign policy will be applied, not in the interest of our country, but in the interest of our national interests. If we do that, then we won't make the same mistake that we made in Libya; if we don't do this, we don't make policy from the state to the state, we don't make a conjunctural policy, we don't make mistakes in Syria, we don't make mistakes with Russia, we don't make mistakes with Israel. For him, dear friends, the reason we draw attention to these extremities here, as we begin, is to at least consider our suggestions in the future. If Mr. Erdogan comes out of nowhere and says, "What is NATO doing in Libya?" And then a week later, if we send the ships, then we have no dignity. In the beginning, we still needed to have certain relations with Syria, but there, my brother Assad, my brother, is also experiencing extreme reactions after family travel. So when there are some loose ends, I'm afraid it's impossible to turn them off. That's where we came in today. We gave our warning on this very early. In 2012, Mr. Gardenli said that a secure zone should be established there and that it should be created on the other side of the border, and that this problem should be resolved in cooperation with the international community, in terms of both material and human size. Unfortunately, today has become a multidimensional problem, not only political, but both economic and social, with sociological effects. It also reached a key point in our relations with the European Union, the Syrian issue. Unfortunately, the consequences of that agreement are not being met at this time. We were supposed to arrive in October. Mr. Davutoglu sped it up. You don't have to. Is it going to be in June? Now it's being called everyone's way. For one thing, I don't think it's right to have so many heads here. Mr. President is the head of state, but the units implementing foreign policy must be primarily the State Department and relevant institutions. So when a voice comes out of every head, like the shadow foreign minister, it becomes a problem for the president's Secretary-General to make an urgent statement about everything, and then to collect things, dear friends. If we're going to run a corporate foreign policy, we have to evaluate this institutional memory, the capacity. We're doing it wrong again, and there's some personal stuff going on. We have to recommend it when the road is close. First my brother Assad will not be the enemy Esed. Both are wrong. We still have problems in Egypt, and when you're directly on the side, you become troubled with the Egyptian government, and then it's hard to get back. So there's no need to be a lifeshare with Mursi, nor to get up and have an institutional relationship with the Muslim brothers and then come back and become enemies. We'll do our criticism, we'll take our stand as Turkey. We will balance and compromise there by defending our necessary interests as a regional force to contribute to world peace. But while we're doing this, it's hard to come back when there's a question of ifrat Tephritis. Now, what happened with Russia began talks with both Russia and Israel to come to a certain point. A normalisation process began with two leaders meeting in Russia. As MP of Antalya, the most troubled city, we are pleased with this development, but if we don't talk about why we came there, we'll fall back. What mistake did we make when we got there, we need to get it right. Thus, when reacting quickly in this way, it is not possible to prevent it, whether it is an act or not. So we have to give up personal foreign policy and continue this institutionally. On the other hand, now, again, if there is a chance today, the agreement on Israel has come. Our friends gave us information, but as far as we can tell, the deal's all about compensation. There was a matter of apology, which was said to be an apology, which somehow the government says I took care of it. But there's nothing in the agreement but compensation, which is not compensation. Yesterday, as Mr. Ihsanoglu put it -- I looked at the minutes of the meeting in the Commission, what the friends had said in the Foreign Commission -- he also expressed its meaning in different languages because he was multilingual, which is where they wrote "ex gratia," which is a blessing that is not written in Turkish. Now, compensation is something that is legally separate, so if you call it grace, it comes as a gift of mutual reconciliation, of negotiation.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0047par0030	The title of the deal is...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0046par0031	So, the deal is, of course, if we didn't land here, if we didn't have any of this, that's what we're saying, but when we came to this in the first place, when you're doing this in return, there are consequences. You shouldn't do that then, and you shouldn't do that now. I don't want to discuss the size of the thing, if we go into politics, we'll talk about the Blue Marmara, who's gone, who's not, and what's going to happen to the people who left that day, and what's where they are now, it's going to get a little bit out of hand. That's not our concern, it's our concern now to build Turkey, which may be a force in its region in accordance with the vision of the 2023 leading country, both economically and politically and foreign policy. So we have to give up personal foreign policy. We see the same thing in relations with the United States, in relations with the EU. The Republic of Turkey suffers the loss of two things when they enter into a mutual dispute. As the National Movement Party, we always want a national foreign policy, but it's multi-directional, it's good with its neighbours, but as regional power, it's a balance force in international institutions, and then it's a foreign policy that will contribute to all of these countries, especially to the Turkish states, and then to all of this geography and to the world, by reasserting a Turkish-Islamic civilization. So let's run these institutions, let's stop being subject to the individual, and on this occasion let's protect our rights, and let's not watch what's going on next to us in Syria, the red line attitude, the sudden deletion. Don't let what we've done with the Turkmen be what we're supposed to be doing. We see that they're suffering a lot more these days, that the population units are being burned, that the records are being burned. I tell Kerkuk to not return to Mosul, but I give all of you respect in order to be able to carry out a national foreign policy.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0048par0035	Thank you, Mr. Günal. In favour of the group proposal of Peoples' Democratic Party, Eskişehir MP Cemal Okan Yüksel will speak last. Here you are, Mr. Ascendant.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0049par0039	Mr. President, it's not going well in the country, even if the AKP members say otherwise. Things aren't going well on the outside, they're not going well on the inside. No matter how much you try to dazzle the public with your make-up economic data, it's not going well in the economy. No matter how much we made peace with Russia, we agreed with Israel. Even if you say so, things are not going well in foreign politics. Every day, bombs explode in the country, people die, children become orphans, and things don't work out internally; the people are depressed, poor, afraid, but you continue to tell the stories of the rise of Turkey. If what was attempted on the night of July 15th had been successful, none of us would be here now. Instead of us, it would be someone else who would make decisions about the land, who would not take it from themselves, who would not take its power from the people. I think we can all agree that it's better that we're in their place, that our people agree with us, that the night of the coup stopped the tanks with their lives, but don't let the public choose us over the terrorist organization. The Turkish people are not happy with us either. How do you want it? On the night of July 15th, our people were subjected to a massive attack. It's a good thing the coup attempt failed, but better still, it never should have happened. It's good that he failed, but it was better that he didn't. Well, who's responsible for that? We are, all of us, but let no one aspire that we are willing to share the responsibility. Of course, the AKP's responsibility is the foremost, the AKP's crime suppresses everyone's guilt. After the victory of the Dating of Normandy, a journalist asks General Eisenhower, who is leading the landing: "Who is this success?" General Eisenhower answers with a question, saying: "If the extraction had failed, who would you have hanged?" I mean, I'm just saying that if it had gone well in the country, whoever would have received the reward would also have to pay for the things that were wrong with you, the AKP. There's no point in trying to build a victory over it, but it's been prevented. This pointless and naive attempt should have been heard, prevented, before it even began. Intelligence shouldn't have been entrusted to his brother-in-law. Now, that intelligence weakness is a major offense, but that's not the only fault. The organization of the Fethullah Congregation in the army should have been prevented. And in this one, I think, for 14 years, the responsibility of those who run the country is the most important. Yes, this congregation had been trying to infiltrate the army for a long time, but it was put into the army during the AKP era. Look, old age decisions, you'll see the truth from there. Just the presence of the congregation in the army is a crime of the Supreme Court, a crime of greater weight than the weakness of intelligence. But there's a bigger crime -- to make his hometown vulnerable enough for outsiders to play games with. It's a bigger mistake than any of them. I remind you, after the night of the coup, we must prepare for a refugee raid from Turkey. Similar statements came from Hungary. Turkey is fast rolling towards Syria. We've just prevented a senseless and incompetent coup attempt, and the climate that that coup attempt has been growing is still going on. Well, my friends, Turkish democracy was in a great deal of trouble on the night of July 15th. What does a driver do when his car's in an accident, step on the gas or hit the brakes? No doubt he'll brake. But, what are you doing? You step on the gas instead of the brake. For example, the legalized bag bill here yesterday -- I have no intention of hurting anyone -- was a bill that was brought in last week, very arrogant, very misguided. What's the matter with you people? When did you come up with these genie ideas? While we were mobilising for democracy, while you sent the nation to the squares for democracy, were you in the back, rubbing your hands and looking for this opportunity? We're going to build the state from scratch. Is the role you're trying to make for yourself to reset the state? Who would have thought that the House would have a fund free of the Court's control, a trust fund, a lot of money unrestricted to this fund without any law? Did you run out of money, or are you creating a new covered grant, in which the amount has been increased categorically during your term? So why are you avoiding the control of this fund, and why don't you have the Court inspect it? If you hadn't heeded the control of the opposition in time, would the Fethullah Community have had such fierce, aggressive positions of government? For example, where did the idea of selling the biggest achievements in the history of the Republic, such as the Turkish Language Foundation, the Turkish Historical Society? Fortunately, you withdrew this clause with our active opposition. So, how did you get the motion to dismiss the president he asked for in the middle of the night? If the Republican People's Party hadn't gone against the motion with all its might, if it hadn't come to the General Assembly and sat here, you would have made it legal. You pulled him back with our opposition. Hakkari and Şırnak were removed from the province. With the opposition's reaction, that was corrected. Friends, the opposition is there to supervise you, to show you the right way when you're wrong. If you ignore our voices, there's no way you can find the truth; you need us. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On the night of July 15th, three opposition parties were here, on this stand, as bombs were falling on this House. When it comes to your work, come to the opposition. When it doesn't work for you, cover your ears. Now, you're very keen to present to the foreign policy the destruction of international relations to the nation. Last time, it was Russia and Israel. I brought down the Russian plane. No, I brought it down. I'm not going to mention the attempt to claim the state's highest ranking event. Today, the Fethullahians have crashed the plane. I said in my speech that day: Russia lost one plane, two pilots, and we lost all our rights over Syria. That's when you booed me. So, what happened today? At the time, you presented this plane incident to the nation as a favour; now the President wanted to write long letters and make peace with Putin. When relations with the United States were broken, he felt the need to approach Russia. Foreign policy will be governed according to your feelings when you wake up in the morning, and what you called yesterday is not what you call a land today. Look, I'm here to claim that the Syrian President, who was first my brother Assad, then the killer Esed, may be tomorrow, again, my brother Assad. And who's gonna pay for what happened in the meantime? Who should be asked to account for the bombs that have rained on our border cities? What about the Israeli agreement we're going to discuss with the Foreign Affairs Commission yesterday? Let's just say that the Israeli state has no compensation for Turkey. The bill says that text in English is fundamental. What does the English text say? "Tazminat" is English for "redemption" (also known as "tazminat").
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0050par0053	Reparations that have come to light in the case of the law...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0049par0054	But what does the deal say? I mean, Israel is making up for killing our citizens at $20 million. So, where's the removal of the Gaza blockade that we're conditioning? It's not part of the deal. So Israel says, how much money is your citizen's life? Here, shut up. It's our lives you're selling to Israel for three or thirty dollars. Mr. President said I sent it at the time. He said, "Now you're asking me." In every aspect of politics, you sell what you go on with, and now you sell those who die in the Blue Marmara. Come on, give it up. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0051par0059	Thank you. The People's Democratic Party group proposal...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0052par0061	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0051par0062	Mr. Mush, let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0052par0063	Mr. President, I mean, here, of course, doesn't use acceptable terms, the orator. Clearly, there's a taunting of our group. You sold lives as you sold others in politics, as you sold our citizens... these are not acceptable accusations. There's an open taunt. I want to tell the AK PARTY band about the tape.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0051par0065	Mr. Mush, here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0052par0070	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the politics and politics that the Justice and Development Party has followed since it was founded. Politics is dynamic. There are conventions, congresses, changes in Turkey's EC PARTY. What you're referring to here as our group, I remind you that it's about selling... it's an ugly expression, and I'll tell you what I don't think is appropriate for a politician. You'll certainly do your reviews, but it wouldn't be appropriate to come out here and use that ugly expression on this council bench. In the conventions we've done so far, not only -- I've told you before -- but also from our congresses, the prime minister is elected, the prime minister is out; it's a clear thing. If you have to say "sell" and so on and so forth, see how many MYK members have changed since 2010.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0053par0072	What does this have to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0054par0073	Don't confuse government with party leadership.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0052par0074	Now, it's not elegant to use them, to refer to another party like this.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0055par0075	Answer him if you sold the dead or not.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0052par0076	Second: Turkey makes a deal with Israel. You can criticize this, you can make different approaches to this, but in foreign policy, the EC PARTY has resulted in a firm foreign policy here with an agreement.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0056par0077	No one's asking about your congress, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0052par0078	You may have a different approach, you may have different criticisms, but the AK PARTI ruling the Republic of Turkey has never changed the hair of a citizen's hair for anything in the world. I mean, that's how it's supposed to be known. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0057par0081	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0058par0083	During his speech, the members of the group made a speech aimed at humiliating our party in public opinion, expressing the number of changed MYK members of the Republican People's Party. We'd like to respond to this taunt.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0059par0084	What's humiliating Mr. Free, look at your own preacher.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0057par0085	In fact, he asked, "How many people have changed in your MYK? ' Is that what you're saying?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0058par0086	Then he used the wrong statement.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0059par0087	What did I use?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0058par0088	The number is wrong at first.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0059par0089	Was it 82?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0060par0090	Just a minute, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0061par0091	He didn't say anything, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0060par0092	Congressmans, I'm listening to Mr. Special, please.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0062par0093	Mr. President, how many MYK members of the Republican People's Party have changed, he asked, and then he gave the wrong number, and in a condescending manner, he teased our group.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0060par0094	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0063par0095	Will they give you the right number, Mr. President? We want the right number.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0062par0097	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, it's not easy to be Mr. Mush. On the way to this stand, the preparation of an opposition party to come back in the past period working on the number of members of MYK and so on is due to the size of their wounds and their discomfort.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0064par0099	Yeah, yeah, yeah!
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0062par0100	Why else would he need that?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0064par0101	Look at Muharrem Encel, Mr. Ozgur.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0062par0102	I'm really sorry that the ruling party deputy leader has to come and say something about the main opposition party with all the false numbers. Of course, imagine that a Prime Minister says I crashed that plane, I did! Now you have to tell him that the Fetullahists had shot it down. And think of a prime minister when he leaves the house in the morning, the vote he gets from your congress is clear, but when he comes home in the evening, he has to resign, becoming a relegated prime minister. And only one person knows who the other prime minister will be until Thursday afternoon, and he says, "Stop appointing the prime minister, and let him name the person who will inform you who will be your prime minister."
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0065par0104	Your situation is worse.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0062par0105	One person decides who's going to explain it. We, the Republican People's Party, are very pleased to have a group of people who love this country, who love its party, who have expressed different ideas as a wealth, but who have never been deceived or deceived. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0066par0109	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0067par0110	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0066par0111	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0067par0112	For the record here, changes in political parties are made by congress. For him, Your...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0068par0113	Does the Prime Minister's exchange also happen with congresses?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0067par0114	It's done in Congress, so the government can come and vote on it.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0069par0115	You didn't know before, so you didn't know until Congress.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0070par0116	Congressman, I don't hear Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0067par0117	If he considers every congress to be a private trustee...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0071par0118	Either you cheated on us, we ran against the Prime Minister in the election.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0067par0119	...for example, let him take a look at their process of changing presidents. Now, we're going to say that there was a trustee there, so that's what I'm asking. Now, Mr. Kilicdaroglu is a trustee? They've held a general congress, Mr. Kilicdaroglu has become president, and now he's a trustee, Mr. Special?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0072par0120	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0067par0121	He's been elected. He's a trustee? In the convention held here, a general president has been elected, our new President has arrived and is in charge by taking the vote of all delegates.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0073par0122	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0074par0123	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but again, I'd like to make sure...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0073par0124	Congressmans, this is not about creating a conflict with the internal affairs of the parties.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0075par0125	Of course, he called our president Kayyum.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0074par0126	Of course, but first, the ruling party started it, and I wish you'd warned me at the time. And for the record, don't put it on polemics. The issue of trustees is that you make one convention; it's common, it's extraordinary, but you make a free choice in that convention, and everybody knows that, no one can say "kayium" to the chosen one there, it's outrageous. But when there was nothing, a person, and a person who was supposed to be neutral, at a party, had the party's president and the country's Prime Minister disbanded by his own decision, and then three days before the election...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0076par0128	Pick it up, please, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0074par0129	...the person who will be chosen if a person decides which person will be chosen by the full vote and thinks about it and who will be chosen by the full vote. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0077par0132	What's it to you?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0078par0133	Mr. Special, every party has its own dynamic. Yes, parties can be criticized, but the person outside that party about the internal affairs of any party has limited information. And I'm also going to ask you, because of the bullying, the friends who took the stand feel the need to make a more severe taunt to the person they claim to be teasing and not answer the question of teasing. We're not racing here, guys. I'd like you to use the bench in accordance with our demands. Peoples' Democratic Party group proposal against Samsun MP Hasan Basri Kurt will speak last. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0079par0141	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group against the motions of the People's Democratic Party to open parliamentary research under Article 104 and 105. I salute you all. Our council has a busy agenda. We're going to have a proposal here, again, as an AK PARTY. And we've all been spending a lot of time in the current operation, especially this week. In view of this, I would like to express that we will vote no first. There were also a few basic approaches to the content of the proposal. However, international relations, foreign policy, foreign affairs, all international relations should be expressed in a way that is actually very different from each other, without being too involved in each other. I'd like to point out from here that we don't accept methods of perception, as if what happened in Libya was the fault of the EC PARTI government, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, or any incident anywhere in the world, is just the result of a single act that Turkey had done. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit03spe0080par0147	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Congressmans, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Friday (now) 19/8/2016, I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Vice President The 413, 416 and 414 draft proposals and proposals were issued forty-eight hours later, in order of "The Bill of Law and Other Jobs From Commissions" on the agenda, in order of 1, 2 and 3 Until the meeting of Friday (August 19th 2016), Friday (Today), until the meeting of the 88th Bill of Laws, the meeting was completed; and this merger was held at 24 p.m. At 00 a.m., if the day's schedule is incomplete, it will continue its work until the day's schedule is completed; On Friday (August 19th 2016) the decision to work on Saturday (August 21st 2016 and Sunday) in the completion of the talks of Bill 411 in the merger; Starting Tuesday (August 23, 2016) of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and Saturday (October 1, 2016) at 15 p.m. Taking a vacation at 00; It has been suggested that in accordance with Article 128 of the Law Proposal No. 413, the Council of Turkey shall be discussed as the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code and that its sections be based on the following ruler. The Justice and Development Party Group has no demand to make a statement on its proposal. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0080par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will begin talks with the Plan and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st ranking of the Turkish Entity Fund, and with the proposal for the Amendment to the Adding Value Tax Act. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 413 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this proposal will be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the proposal will be discussed in sections after all negotiations have been completed and passed on to the articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Samsun MP Erhan Usta will speak on the whole proposal. Here you go, Mr. Master. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0081par0015	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Now, before we go into this proposal of the law, about four-and-a-half, five o'clock this morning, I expressed this view of incentives: our incentive as Turkey doesn't work. Turkey needs investment, but the incentive system doesn't work because we can't increase investments, and worse than that, the level of our horizontal investments, and therefore our exports and production is dropping. It's a matter of precision, and I say it again, based on its importance. It's not like it's any time this semester or anything. So if we take it according to 2002, the total share of high-tech products is already falling, but when we do the 2007, 2014 comparison, there's a significant decline in production and exports at the level of technology. So we're facing two serious risks, we can't invest, we can't increase our production volume, and our current production levels are dropping. I insisted on saying that now that it mattered, maybe he didn't draw enough attention to himself in the early hours of the morning or with fatigue. Now, what we're focusing on today is the establishment of the Turkish Entity Fund. The first conversation is, perhaps, a little bit -- because we may have friends who have no opportunity to study the proposal -- what is this issue, it would be more appropriate to mention it very briefly and then move on to my evaluations. This is what we often see in countries that are in certain countries around the world, or countries that give more or give more or give more; they are the countries that make up real real assets. So there's not a lot of countries like us that have deficits, but they want to pass it on to future generations, so by building government funds like this, they're going to evaluate these investments, their oversources, their oversources. These are basically the countries that form these kinds of funds. In the second group countries, there may not be much more trade, but there are countries with serious oil revenues or certain mineral revenues. And these countries are building these kind of funds again to transfer these mineral revenues, oil revenues, possible instability in prices, or future generations, and they're using these funds to assess their money, and they're trying to bring stability and security to their economies, and the main feature of these funds is that the government is behind it. They're already called government funds. Now, that's the general issue. I'd like to make a formal assessment of its content before we go into evaluations. It's such a big deal because the government says it cares. The bag came to us within the law, so the bag came to the Commission in accordance with the law. But we're against the whole bag of laws, but it's absolutely unacceptable for such important matters to be put in a bag of legislation. As a result of the opposition's demands and pressure, they removed the bag from within the law, which became a separate law, which is the first issue. Second, of course, it's a new subject. Since it's a new subject, it's not really possible with one institution or two institutions working. I mean, it was a document between institutions that had to be prepared with a serious dialogue and long discussions, a law proposal. That's not how we see it. Both the information we received from institutions shows this -- that there were not many views from other institutions -- and even if we didn't already have that kind of information, the work was actually raw work, so there was a lack of care. Maybe, you know, not to be sloppy on purpose, but there were problems with not being consulted enough. The motions have been tried to be corrected, there have been dozens of motions, there have been reviews, multiple motions, and the motion has been changed again. This kind of work has resulted in a certain adjustment. However, even so, there is no doubt that in the coming years, there will be a great deal of suffering and shortcomings. Now, a disease, of course, is a government disease: it brings this kind of work without doing a numerical analysis. And that's a law proposal with a problem like that again. In fact, it was in the bill, and then it became an offer. So, the government is completely behind it... otherwise, it's not something the MPs gave it to themselves. So there is no numerical study of the size of this fund, how its impact on the economy will contribute to Turkey's issues. One of our ministers, the minister, came in -- and now he doesn't have a minister -- he mentioned 150-200 billion dollars about the size of this fund. Another minister came in, didn't give me a number, but the number in his head doesn't go through, believe me, a billion or so. So, that's it, there's been very conflicting statements between ministers about the size of the fund, or there's been a lot of conflicting information. Of course, the contradiction was not only in the ministers, but also in the bureaucrats. We've heard some of the funds from every bureaucrat. So they looked at the proposal of the law, said something, said something about world practices. When we looked at them, it was possible to understand that it was something that actually came without enough work, that it was already in a state that wasn't absorbed. It's a subject of one content, but I'd like to evaluate it at a point of procedure. A very important, scandalous thing has happened here. Now, there's one statement -- which is already indiscriminately written -- that's the reason for this proposal of the law -- that's how it's going to fly, that's how it's going to fly, and then, within a ten-year period, in ten years, Turkey will raise it from an average of 1.5 points per year. So it's going to contribute to growth by 1.5 points in a row every year. Of course, that's a very serious argument. I asked my friends at technical meetings, and what did you write that based on? Let's see if this works. So as much as you're going to invest in something like this, it's going to be about investment, and it's going to be about growth. After that, the friends couldn't give us an answer. Look, we've got four, five agencies lined up, and there's no answer. But they take responsibility for the irresponsibility of writing it down. The bureaucrat writes, the politician brings it in, puts it in front of us, and there's not a politician standing behind it. I mean, is that possible? This is a matter that requires the resignation of at least a few ministers, a few bureaucrats, who are responsible in a democratic country. So, you write something, there's no work behind it, then you ask them, they can't answer. They find the solution to remove him from the motive, and he's one and a half points out of the motive that's coming your way right now. I mean, these things don't happen, like this, without work, with the porters... or even the economy gets taken away with a hammock. We're used to you taking foreign policy with envy, domestic politics, but Turkey faces an understanding that it's trying to move even the economy with envy. I'm so sorry I had to make such a criticism. Now, the fund here is an instrument used by countries that I've just expressed, which are overpaying, more, have resources, or have certain mineral revenues. Well, we're looking at us, and we don't have that. When you're told why you've brought this fund, sir, all G20 countries have it, and we have it... for such a reason, you can't fund it, my friends. That is, in itself, the wrong reason. Therefore, there is such a thing as having, having, and having. With understanding, there is no fund. Now, on the other hand, it's in the G20 countries, and it's actually a little bit of a thing. Of course, because these funds are not a standard, there is no such fund in Germany, according to our research. Friends say it's a $60 billion fund, but it's a completely different kind of fund. There are small funds in the states in America, but the United States does not have such a fund. So, he's in the G20 countries, and we have the argument. The argument is actually a lame argument, and I want to express it. Now, you know why we're building this fund, we have a presence, and we're not considering it, we're going to build this fund to borrow it. So, the Malaysian fund comes in, buys some stocks from Turkey. In fact, we're not going to be able to do what he did, and unfortunately, we're going to do what we're going to do with the Malaysian fund from here... so that we can fund it better than that. Instead of reducing the current deficit, the Justice and Development Party has entered into a search to finance the current deficit instead of taking structural measures that will reduce the current deficit, instead of bringing Turkey into an investment move. I mean, that's all there is to it. That, of course, means trying to get more resources into the dorm and financing our current deficit. So, of course, it's important to finance the current deficit, to finance rationally, to finance cheaply. We don't say anything about that either, but, guys, our problem is that the current deficit is reduced. There's no point in building an instrument, an instrument that will facilitate your financing without reducing the Cari deficit. Besides, we don't have a lack of instruments. Now, believe me, these negotiations have been through very conflicting statements. I mean, the ministers, who represent the government, have had a lot of conflicting statements in themselves, as well as the conflicting world between bureaucrats. This, again, is what I said at the beginning, is the greatest evidence that it's not understood, it's not absorbed. Now, we're always saying that during the Justice and Development Party administrations, in the thirteen-year period, Turkey has given 467.9, or 468 billion dollars. You know, we're always comparing it to the old one, which is only 20 billion dollars, given the current rate in the 13 years before it. Did he invest a lot of money, even though he's made so many current deficits? No, he didn't invest much. The average annual investment in the Justice and Development Party period -- the average of 13 years -- is down by 1.3 points to the national income of the previous period. I mean, you're going to invest less than before, and you're going to create more currents. This means that Turkey has a policy of economics based on debt and consumption. This economic policy has also come, and Turkey has blocked it. So a policy of economics, which does not save money, does not invest, which is debt from international markets to Turkey, and from Turkey to the banks, in return for which the households are borrowing money, and in exchange for that, they have grown to a certain degree, they have increased people's well-being, but they have been blocked. Of course, part of the growth in people's well-being is that in 2002 the society, which has no debt, now owes about $600 billion in consumer loans. So the rate of debt to consumer revenues has increased from 4 per cent to 50 per cent, and we need to see this. Now, this growth policy has failed, but I still have to express that, in fact, the government has failed in its growth policy, the worst of it, it doesn't know it, it doesn't. So instead of reducing the current deficit, the government came to us with a proposal like this, seeking to finance the current deficit. Of course, this attempt to find resources needs to be considered with a number of elements that we've discussed, discussed or accepted in recent days. First of all, it's the law of restructuring some of the credits. We're trying to satisfy a need for financing in that way, even though it's meant to raise money from the country and, more importantly, black money, we're trying to bring it to Turkey. The law clearly states that if Turkey brings black money to Turkey today, there will be no black money investigation under Article 282 of the Penal Code. That's the first leg of the job, so that's what you want to do. Second, the bag is the 35th article in yesterday's law, which was issued with the insistence of opposition. We've already privatized a lot of things, and we have the opportunity to include a lot of things in privatisation. However, there were some organizations that had no possibility of privatisation, and they were trying to be included in the privatisation of Article 35 yesterday. But with the opposition's insistence, it was removed from the privatisation; rather, it was removed, which couldn't be done. But it was the second foot in the fiction. I mean, right now, it's all about privatisation; it's the second foot. And the third foot is this fund. So, black money, privatisation, when we think about the establishment of this fund, in Turkey -- I'm an economist, I think I know the economy of Turkey, but in the government's mind, there's a problem in the government's accounts, which we probably don't know about, beyond what we know. It's a serious search for resources, so whatever it is, it's black, we're looking for a source, we're seeing a panic. Therefore, I think the House should be briefed on this matter. Now, national assets are being established by governments to transfer today's resources to the next generation. But we, unfortunately, have to express it with regret, use it to spend future generations' income today, which is obvious because that's what the examples show. For example, it's said that there are big projects, we're going to buy them today, and we're going to sell them today. I mean, in 20 years, the revenues the country will get in twenty-five years, the revenues it will get in landscape today, so I'll tell you that no one's going to have any idea of investing in, like, breaking a bond or breaking a bond, making it into income today, so I'll tell you that it's not in anybody's head to invest it. It's a very dangerous thing. I mean, the last thing I'm gonna say is, I'm gonna say it in public. It's not that we're against it as a matter of fact, but it's an important weapon. When this weapon is not well used, it puts Turkey at serious economic risk and can actually spend future generations' revenues today, causing serious public deficits to rise in the future. Now, in both the motive and the statements of the ministers, we also came across something like this: it's in finance policy -- and it's in fiction -- it's a sign of serious relaxation. This is very important for Turkey, so the strict finance policy has given Turkey a lot to the economy, where there should be no relaxation. One of the things that we have long discussed is whether or not this fund will be in public accounts; will its income, expenses, and debts be seen in public accounts? In particular, the Minister of Economy claimed that this would not be seen, and we discussed it for a day. Later, the Minister of Finance came from God and, of course, they will be seen in public accounts. He said, he denied the former minister, and then the matter was settled. So this needs to be seen clearly in public accounts. Look, the countries that have blocked the transparency of public accounts or have done secret business have been seriously in trouble in the world arena. You know, I don't want to name a country here, but we don't have to do anything to reduce the transparency of our public accounts, I see those risks. So the Minister of Finance said it wouldn't happen today -- the other ministers -- but the reason is, there are those risks, and I'm going to give them an example in a second. For example, I'll give you an example right now, it's said that large infrastructure projects will be funded without raising debt from the public sector. Brother, when you don't have income, you can't do it, it's not a miracle, so you're saying you're going to finance major infrastructure projects, but you're not going to raise public debt, so there's no such thing. So this is a fund to be seen in public accounts, and it's expected to increase public debt in debt, but this statement still exists for the cause. I don't know what kind of attitude they take when strangers see it -- if they get their attention. There are statements against all the reforms Turkey has made recently, and I'm not going to prolong it, I'm running out of time. For example, we've removed the funds, we've purged them, it's an important reform for Turkey, black hole funds, and now we're building funds. In Law 5018, we said budgetary union, transparency of budget, public accounts, all of which are being tried in a way that's contrary. With Law 4749, we have said, "Construction, monitoring, evaluation" with the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Debt Management, and yet there are also exceptions -- there are already exceptions being made." Hence, there is an inconsistencies with which there is no integrity. Now, as a matter of fact, I'd like to come up with an audit. This fund was initially controlled by independent auditors and is not subject to the Court's supervision. Of course, we strongly opposed it, so it was clearly against the 160 and 165th amendments of the Constitution. After that, I'm not going to talk about long arguments, but at the last point we're here, we can say that there's been a partial response to the violation of the Constitution, but there's still the possibility that the Constitutional Court will decide what to do about it. But, at the moment, a special audit has been brought in, the reporting system is there, with the work of the Commission, and we say it will be useful, and that's the minimum, that's what needs to happen. Of course, our hearts are in favor of the Court's audit. The Court is the institution of this country. If the Court has problems, if there is an inadequacy in the quality of the Court, in its capacity, a 14-year government should have developed them. I mean, the solution isn't to get out of court control just because he can't do these things well. This is inadmissible in any way. So, the government's initial attitude towards control was, of course, unacceptable, so it has no control at all, so that's how you're going to run a $150-200 billion fund, as the Minister of Economics put it, but you're going to manage it, but no one is going to supervise it on behalf of the public. That wasn't acceptable. I think it's partially resolved. But our solution, of course, was, for example, that we said there were at least three people that the Prime Minister would choose from certain central control elements. I mean, if the Prime Minister is malicious here -- I'm not saying for the Prime Minister today -- we're finally setting up a system -- that's the way it is, if he chooses the underprivileged supervisors and puts them here, then nothing comes out of this audit. Of course, we don't expect that to happen. However, those who really know control and control international standards need to be employed here very carefully. So, to sum up, this fund is important, but it needs to be used well. For example, a minister said, "We will intervene in the money markets if necessary with this fund." That's a very dangerous thing to say, friends. In a country with the Federal Reserve, I'm going to intervene in the money markets with this fund. It's very dangerous to say. That's what we specifically said, so you have to avoid those words. I mean, if we do something like this, if we do this with this fund, serious interference in finance policy, we use this important weapon against ourselves, and it's Turkey's disaster. I'd like to make this final warning. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0082par0042	Thank you, Mr. Master. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Istanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0083par0046	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, last night at five o'clock last night the 80-point bag bill passed, we're going to see a number of articles today, and we're going to come back this morning, and we're seeing a Turkish asset fund that can influence the history of Turkey, affect its future, and we're seeing an asset fund that can affect future generations. And do you know how we discussed this law, my friends? After working 90 hours in the Plan and Budget Commission last week, we arrived on Monday, and suddenly we were put in front of us by the Entity Fund and discussed the Entity Fund within 24 hours and 36 hours. And even in thirty-six hours, the law had come in a really bad way, which has come in a pretty good way, but believe me, if we had another thirty-six hours to work, we could put our future in the form of a better law, in front of our children's future, but unfortunately, it wasn't given the chance to do so, and after the meeting of 80 articles in the General Assembly, this proposal is now being discussed in the General Assembly, and I see very few ruling MPs here. We tell them to give up this law and renegotiate it, not to do it -- to do a study in October, together with the government, with the civil society, with the working world, with the workers, with the ecology environments, to bring this law by working better. I'll try to convince you of that. I hope you can convince your friends and we'll hold off on that law for now, work better in October and bring it up. Dear friends, you know, Mr. President once said: "We must run the country like an Ash, like an anonymous company." Really, we were critical at the time. The country is not run like an anonymous company. The logic of what you call an anonymous company is that it just looks at it as capital, doesn't think about workers, thinks about maxisizing profits, doesn't think about ecology. However, the state should think of all of this because we are a social law state and the state can't act like investors. The state has to think of all social areas, ecology, birds, flowers, insects, everything. But that's not the logic of love, it's just maxisizing profit. Now, what will this company do? Look, I'm reading from motive: public resources will be transferred to various funds, and with these funds will be available in the international market and will invest in infrastructure, infrastructure, infrastructure investments. But, look, I'll tell you this: yes, in the early 2000s, in the 1990s, there was a flow like this in terms of neoliberal policies. No matter what the state is doing, no matter what the private sector is doing, the market balances itself. The private sector inflated the markets, and then, unfortunately, in 2009, it hit a very large wall in America. Earlier, it hit Argentina in the 1990s, Russia in the 1990s, and hit our country many times. So everything the people do is bad, everything the private sector does is good. Now, we're looking at a way to take public resources out of the public, run them in an Ash logic, and save our future in this way, and that's not the right way to look at it. The reason is that we are the only country in G20 without funds. It is not true. Each country has some assets, but I'm going to transfer all my resources here, and I'm going to create a $150-200 billion fund. It would take a lot more questioning, my friends, to pass on our remaining assets. Look, what countries have assets and why are they building them? For example, they're building countries with properties, like Qatar, Norway, Russia. Because they have assets, and they have assets today, because they're not going to happen in 30 years, so let's put them in assets today, put them in certain investments so that we can trust some resources to our future generations. Another group, countries that produce added goods. They're creating a additive product... [[Noises]] Mr. President, there's so many buzzings, there's so few people, but I don't understand how this hum comes out.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0084par0054	Congressmans, may I ask you to be quiet, please?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0083par0055	Another group, countries that produce add value products, have no assets, but add value products. For example, South Korea doesn't have any assets, but it produces valuable products to add, it creates a lot of business, saves more, and invests in funds. Another group, countries that create more savings, like I said. All of these can create these funds and transfer resources to their future generation. We're not any of these things, we don't have the assets, we don't have the surplus, we don't have the added value, we're just buying and consuming products, we're not a country that produces them, we're a country that consumes them. So, what are we gonna put in this fund, guys? Look, there's a reason, we'll put the treasure fields here. What else are we gonna put in? It's been said, the unemployment fund is an appetizer. Now, there's $100 billion in old money, 100 quadrillion in unemployment insurance. Yeah, I'm afraid there's the idea of transferring the employee's money and a fund for unemployment into a fund like this. He shouldn't attempt to do this because the government can't go after the capital because the capital field offers an AS logic, a profit maxisization, sells dreams, we'll do Canal Istanbul, we'll win this, we'll win this, we'll win this, we'll win this, but this may not be the case. The worker's money is spent on the worker, and it's for the worker, and it can't be invested anywhere else. In other words, we will transfer money to public institutions. Almost that money, I wish the Finance Minister would come and tell me. Is the public balance too much for you guys? What money are you going to transfer? Yes, our budget is more or less equivalent, but as soon as you transfer funds from there, there will be financial discipline, our budget will be short, and we'll put it in front of the capital, and the balance of the budget will be free, and our country will be in debt under worse circumstances. I wonder if we can afford that. What mission are we reaping? I'm reading for a reason: that this fund will stabilize the market if the foreign fund drops during the economic fluctuation period, if the market liquidity decreases. What does our Central Bank do if you love God? Are you guys building a parallel central bank? Can you imagine, on July 15th, the dollar went up to $2.85, 3.09, the Central Bank didn't intervene, so he knew something, and the dollar went back to 2.90 these days. Imagine that there were two players, and a minister called and said, "Let's sell dollars, this dollar's too much." You're putting in two players that our Central Bank isn't interfering, that's a parallel central bank, folks. This can't be happening, there's an institution in every mission, there's no parallel two institutions, we've all suffered from the parallel. The other issue is price stability. Look, did we ever think about what the price stability would be at this point, guys, that the bond would be exported, that would create inflation inside? Look, we put enlargementary policies in front of us, we reduce the proportions of banks in response, we've come up with enlargementist policies at many points. We want interest to fall, but where do we want it to fall? We're just saying let the mortgages fall, there's no incentive to produce. In this framework, we see what expansionist policies are getting into these days. What's the inflation? 8.75%, and we're looking at double digits this year. If all these enlargementary policies are not left to the Central Bank alone, price stability can be a problem again if a second board is discussed and enlargement policies continue. So what do we do? We're going to put public funds as collateral, we're going to put treasury land here, we're going to put public resources, we're going to go on international markets, we're going to export bonds with this fund. So, what's this? It's a parallel treasure. What's the treasure doing? He's in international markets and he's in debt. What will this institution do? And that's going to be on the international market and in debt. What does that mean? Two treasures means two debt management. But isn't it a parallel treasure, my friends, to raise that rate and leave debt management double-wired while the Treasury has been running the debt in recent years, while our relatively public debt rate has dropped to 32 per cent? How can we dare to do such a thing? Now, what's this fund going to do with these resources, folks? What does he mean by that? We're going to build Istanbul and a nuclear plant, the Canal says. What about nature's right, ecology? Our dreams are Channel Istanbul or nuclear power plant? He's going to do big infrastructure projects, and that's how he's going to finance it! Guys, we can't just put all our resources into a resource that ignores the rights of the environment, ecology, and we can't dream of building Canal Istanbul. Canal İstanbul is a project that can disrupt the nature of all Istanbul, the nature of the entire region and the whole region. We can't risk our nature, our ecology with crazy projects like this. By reason of love, let us no longer be subject to the logic that ignores nature by means of profit, which ignores Rize, Black Sea, and Ayder. We need to get back from that look, and we need to get this mission out of here. Look, guys, there's something else on the mission. This fund will invest abroad, it's in the mission. If you love God, we're a country that's open, and we don't have much to do. We are also a country with a savings deficit, importing savings from abroad outside of our own savings. We're a country with jobs, we have unemployment. And we say, "We're going to raise resources in the country, put money from unemployment insurance, put money in the treasury, borrow money from abroad, take this money and invest it abroad." Yeah, a bureaucrat said, let's not name it, let's not be embarrassed: with these resources, we'll buy land in Somalia, we'll grow agricultural products, we'll cover the supply shortage in our country. Sir, in Africa, animalism is so cheap in another country, we're going to go there, we're going to animalize, we're going to bring meat to our country, and we're going to cover our meat shortages. Yeah, the livestock in our country is over, the agricultural crops are down, the farmer's bleeding. Instead of supporting agriculture, livestock, market logic, full market logic abroad, let's go buy some cheap wheat abroad, buy some fields, go abroad, buy some animals, grow them, bring them back to the country. What happened to employment, our country's resources? What kind of logic? Farmers, laborers, jobs... that's how many friends the market head is. We're a social law state, a social state. Let's not pass a passing law here, fellas. Look, guys, asset funds show the country's reputation. They must have assets, yes. If countries and foreign funds trust this country, they should come and invest it. But what countries are investing in assets? The countries they trust. So they're investing in the funds of countries they trust in their democracy, countries they trust in the legal system. To do that, we need to be a country that has made business peace, a country that is running towards democracy. I'm afraid we're a long way from that, but we just had a coup a month ago. We need to get out of the shame of being a country that has suffered a coup, and we need to run to democracy as soon as possible, in this fund, if we're going to see each other again, if we're going to actually create a fund for the benefit of our country in terms of internal resources, if we can only build democracy for this country, if we can make our business peace, then that's the reputation of the fund, and the people in it and the people abroad will invest in this fund. Guys, we passed an incentive law last night. And this fund -- you know -- is going to take advantage of these incentives, and it's particularly tax-free, and it's going to say, "Come, citizen, invest here, and I'll put capital on you." Who's he gonna tell? It's going to say "Apple" (Apple). Who's he gonna tell? He'll say "Wolksvagene" and "Mercedes" and "Mercedes." What companies are these? They're mind-producing, innovation-making, new technology-making companies. Well, why can't we? What will friends say to these companies at the same time? I won't take taxes from you. Look, it came out yesterday. I'm giving you free public land, and there's cheap laborer here, citizen, cheap worker, $400 for you, worker's insurance is on me. In that sense, turquoise carpets will be laid out in front of these people. So, why do we sell our country, our land, and our hard work so cheaply, you guys, why do you think? Because we're not a creative society, we're not a productive society, we're trying to bring other people's ideas, minds into our country, we're putting up turquoise carpets, we're raising funds, and unfortunately we're exploiting our cheap workers in this way. And why is that? Look, I'll give you an example: the student rate we raise with critical thinking is 1 percent, so one percent of every 100 children we graduate with critical thinking, so a child who questions when something is said, is one out of 100. What's left of Recep Tayyip Erdogan believes what he says, he believes what Fethullah Gulen says, he believes what someone else says; he doesn't question what someone else says, he puts his mind in trust. But what's the ratio in South Korea? 32 percent of each 100 children have a critical thought. And these kids get creative, they bring out Samsung, you give them a thousand dollars, you get a phone, they make Apple, they develop other creativity. I mean, not only do I support those big corporations, we're against it. We need to invest in our little children, creative children, who can develop their own creativity. If such a fund is to be established, it must first invest in education, raise children with critical thinking. They develop their creativity, and a fund like that is funding the creativity of those children, supporting them, and giving up making our country a cheap labor force paradise. I'm going to tell you one more problem with this fund, guys, the audit. Look, when he first came in, he said, "Who are we going to have my inspection?" They said, "You know, international organizations, we're going to give money, they're going to come and supervise us." Where's the House inspection, the public resources, the public audit? You're saying I'm going to build Canal Istanbul, won't you get consent from here, won't you get the people's consent? You're going to write a report to an international organization, and if you do Kanal Istanbul, it's going to be great, you're going to make a lot of money. You're going to say, "You're going to lose control of the nation." Yes, with our compromise, the House has been withdrawn at a certain rate and the control has been established, but we'll only be able to write a report, they'll come and answer to us, the fund managers, and we'll try to conduct our inspection as Parliament. But there's one more big problem. Where does this fund depend? To the Prime Minister. He's going to appoint the Prime Minister. So who's the handler? Now, there's a three-man inspection committee. Who's going to appoint that auditor? The Prime Minister will appoint him. So the Prime Minister runs the business, the Prime Minister appoints the auditor. What kind of control is that, balance? This isn't control, guys. Let's make sure we change that inspector to a motion, so the PM doesn't appoint him, so let's work on another formula. Let's draw the law. So I say, let's work harder on it. So what do we suggest, folks? Don't let the asset fund fall in love. I've explained the logic of love, it's bad. So how do you want it? Let's have a fund under the treasure. Let there be a fund that can support social projects, support education, health, social policy in many ways, and support our creative youth. We create, we produce, we don't come here to market other people's creativity as cheap laborers. Let's not exploit our worker, our worker. Finally, creativity, as I said, we're offering a fund that supports our young people. And in the last minute, friends, yesterday, you know, we've had 80 substances, and there's still a lot of stuff that's not right. Article 23, you know, for security reasons, the seizure of the property of the municipalities, the property of the municipality, the 50th article, which gives the Ministry of Environment the authority to tear down and rebuild the land, ignoring the local's will. Which means he's still a trustee. In that sense, the trustee clause has been withdrawn, but its extensions are still in the bag of legislation. Let's renegotiate this, guys. Look, yesterday's climate may lead to new things. It's not the climate of yesterday, it's the Cataclysm climate, and of course it's a big deal, the reaction of our people going there was important, but there was something missing. If we want to spread the climate that we lived in last night throughout the geography, let's do two of these. We met with our Minister of Environment at certain points. A new path can be opened with local governments, a new channel can be opened, which can lead to new favors. I salute you all by making my calls in this direction. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0085par0071	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Zechariah Haziel of İzmir will speak. Here you go, Mr. Cleanel.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0086par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the entire Turkish Entity Fund's Law Proposal on 413 rows. So, starting with my words, first of all, what I'd like to say is that no one in this Parliament would object to the creation of new financial models and techniques to increase the current investment rate, where savings are insufficient to finance investments, and to bring forward resources into the real economy. This is an important event. However, we wanted to point out that the legal arrangements to meet such a requirement, the structure of institutions to be built, the task and powers to be given to institutions are based on detailed reviews, to be tested for the results of our arrangements with examples, to be discussed over issues for a long period of time, to create new options, alternatives, so that such arrangements will mean something when they are made. Otherwise, we'll work here for hours for the liquidation of a large and complex structure with a large number of investors, as well as some of the good-meaning initiatives that later leave bad memories in society. At this stage, I would like to remind you of some events that occurred in the early 1980s: the structure of our assembly is made up of young people. Perhaps not much of it does, but I would like to remind you of an argument between the late Calp and the late Ozal during the election as we head towards 1984, after 1983. One of the leaders of a television program said he was going to sell the bridge to create resources, and the late Calp was punching tables, saying, "I won't sell!" Later, the first thing the Autonomous Government did was to take out the law to ensure the sale of the bridge -- not to sell it or anything -- the Bill of Law on Acceleration and Public Investments. It came out in February 1984. Interestingly, there was talk of selling the assets of the city by securing its assets. Dear friends, what was done was nothing. An instrument of debt was created. The government borrowed money directly. It wasn't called a loan. It was called a loan in exchange for a bond. That's all it is. As a matter of fact, with the liquidation of dozens of funds that had been created this way, we had to pay off all the billions of dollars in debt to the head of the public. I'd like to transfer one item to you in private. In fact, at the time of their discussion, they're asking: I mean, how is this going to be a share of income? How are you going to evaluate it? How much will you sell? How much is a whole bridge worth? How are you going to evaluate this? It's simple, just like this: I'm going to subtract $10 billion worth of partnerships for an infrastructure facility that generates $2 billion a year. Suppose it's 20 percent profit. He says, 100 per cent of it is worth about this billion lira. I'll leave some of this in the treasury and sell the rest to the people. Now, this is a fund, my dear friends, it's called a fund. It's not a bad fund, it's a good fund, actually, so don't look at it, it's not a bad one. However, it is vital to determine how to evaluate the resources obtained in this way. If you don't allow all of these loans to develop new investments after a certain period of time or further investments, to allocate resources to productive investments, if you use them in your current expenditures, these funds have no future, they don't reach a specific place. Dear friends, here, now, after all these years, we're building a new fund. This is a fund that has been available since the 1950s, applied to many countries, but has been very popular in recent years. They're called national assets funds. There's a significant difference between the national assets and the funds I just told you about, which are the debtor's instrument. The debt is to reflect the cost of today's expenditures, the investments made with these expenditures, and the future generations will use them, and they will benefit from the logic of today's costs to future generations. I'll take it, I'll do it today, and they'll pay for some of it. The asset funds have nothing to do with it. That's the difference, asset funds are being used for specific purposes, leaving a certain amount to benefit generations from the resources that are being used today. Expenses for future generations, burdens for future generations, fund for the benefit of future generations, and try to increase the welfare of future generations with their income. Events that can be passed on to future generations are often funded by those who have such resources, such as oil, or mines, or other beings. Some countries, which have tremendously high oil revenues, assume that the source will run out for a certain amount of time, or knowingly take some of the revenues from here, put them in this fund, and use this fund to provide them with income when oil revenues are finished, or put copper mines here, as Chile did. The copper mines will also be consumed in a certain amount of time, but from the moment he puts the income from copper mines here, his income from there will be used up even when the copper mines run out; this will be so. Now, my dear friends, if you don't mix these two instruments together, the structure you're going to build is going to be very different. What are the countries doing here that don't have natural assets, without oil? That's not the way it's going to be in countries that give more money than they do in these countries, because they're being created because the current resources are being used. So I'm going to set aside a certain portion of this current surplus to create future competitive economies, and I'm going to keep doing that. It might say, like Korea. Korea has created a lot of money in this way, and when it defines its funds in an interesting way, it buys battery technologies, etcetera, etcetera, which companies can't deal with, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't buy patents, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't No more than that, no more than that, and countries that don't have any assets, separate a specific portion of their resources, into a very concrete and specific goal. France uses this fund to prevent its country's national assets, strategically important assets, at the expense of others, to protect all of its strategic investments at the expense of this fund. Dear friends, that's pretty much how the function of the national asset fund is defined. So, what do we do? Let me read directly from the purpose of the law: the purpose of the law is to contribute to the diversity and depth of vehicles in capital markets, to bring public assets into the economy, to provide foreign resources, to participate in strategic, large-scale investments, to establish subsidities of the Turkish asset fund and this fund. Dear friends, that's not a description that matches the definitions of classical assets. This gives the impression that it's a market-to-market debt target, that it's being created to fund markets. The establishment of matter in this way poses a threat to the capital market that Turkey has been developing for years because it is trying to make almost all of the tasks defined here our capital markets. Clearly, the fact that these things are being started by government funds, that the private sector's ability to use capital markets is being restricted, and that there is a serious risk being created here. So this seems to be a serious problem with the markets that we've been trying to create for a long time. The fact that this fund belongs to the government, and that when it intervenes in these markets, it raises a huge question in the minds of investors, whether they want to create concerns that there might be government interference. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to point out two things about this proposal that we're trying to legislate: One of them is that national asset funds are divided into public funds. The public gives all the capital of the public fund, all their assets. So, because all of the public funds that you've established in this way belong to the state, you're faced with a fundamental problem because you're transferring state assets. The question of whether or not any of the tasks that have been defined about state assets or state institutions that you've already established will be continued. I would especially like to point out that if you take their assets and exclude their functions so that they don't continue, the problems that will come from here will be very important. It is very important to make clear what is being transferred to government funds for what purpose and what is being provided for when such resources are being transferred. However, within our bill, the Council of Ministers has an incredible power over this, in fact, within the bill that we're trying to legislate. So Turkey has the authority to transfer all its assets into this fund, including cash, real estate, mining, underground resources, subterranean resources, everything. Dear friends, this is what the House must pay attention to. You must not, you must not, or you must not, allow the Council of Ministers to use any authority without setting its upper and lower limits; it is a requirement of budgetary rights. If you hand it over indefinitely, you have handed over your budget, which is contrary to the Constitution. This is a matter that must and must be resolved during the discussions here. The second important thing I'm going to point out to you is that you're transmitting all of the government's assets in an infinite way. From the moment you've passed, you've made exceptions to all the laws that have been made against the use of public resources of state assets, you say: You will not be subject to these laws, you will not be subject to this law, you will not be subject to 5018, you will not be subject to the law, you will be subject to the law, you will be subject to nothing, you will be subject to the law. Dear friends, if you take an unlimited supply of public resources and then attempt to use them without any public supervision or law, you're going to be discussing the concept of state here. Not this one, not this one for sure. We've stated that we have no opposition to the establishment of the fund, we've explained the need to establish the funds correctly, especially to future generations, that the funds should carry the resources of today to benefit future generations, and then you'll do the foundation correctly, and you'll do the foundation accordingly. If you want to improve our industry, I'm using this, this, the resources, but you're going to define it very clearly that I'm going to achieve this purpose with this. All of these definitions are mandatory in sub-funds to be established, otherwise, you will be handing over your budget, which, according to our Constitution, is yours, to someone else, indefinitely. We said it was a public fund. We also told them that all of the government's resources are being transferred from the allocation of revenues. How, though, will such practices and expenditures be audited? Two of my dear friends who just spoke have drawn attention to the matter. It's not a matter of drawing attention to yourself. Because there is a Article 165 of our Constitution, which stipulates how the state, or rather, the Parliament itself, will carry out the control of such businesses or institutions, which will be built with public resources. As the opposition party, we as the main opposition party have tried to give this bill all the support we can, we've tried, but we don't respond to it if you say there's a bill in us that's breaking down. Perhaps that would have been the result if it had been seriously studied and dealt with. We'll see in particular which fund to use, especially for what purpose, which funds are currently not evaluated, and how it will be evaluated from now on, so maybe we'll be able to take care of the function of that fund as a society, as a parliament, and that's not happening. And also, if you set up a lack of control, that's when the problem gets a lot bigger. In connection with the established audit fund, the appointment of the auditors of those in particular in charge of the administration who established the fund is also a void. These issues must be evaluated during the negotiations here. Dear friends, we're building a fund, or rather, we're starting a company, and with the assets that we're handing over to this company, that company is building funds, and the funds are building subsidiaries. We're bringing in a system like this, and it's going to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on We're setting up public funds, all of the public assets, unlimitedly, even the state-owned, public-subscribed real estate, when the bill first came in, and our Congress was going into the fund. We've been putting everything into it, including the Capitol building, and we've been handing it over. So in the meantime, we've been breaking no laws, and we've been leaving the control system to the initiative of the draw. Now, dear friends, how can you trust such a fund? A fund like this... Aa, how free, how beautiful, how much money he wants to make. People don't invest here. A foreign investor is an independent fund; he is not a part of it, he is not subject to it, he is not subject to control. He does not invest money in something called "The Fund." No, that's the way it is, so this fund needs to be secured. How will you ensure that he is trusted? Dear friends, I'd like to give you an example from a very different area: we have an institution that exists or we hesitates about its existence at work, ombudsmanism. We're building it as a control unit. Sweden is the country where the ombudsman comes out, but Denmark is the most prestigious country in the ombudsman. Other countries have put it in their constitutions, they've made great laws, they've done this, they've done this, but Denmark has made a very ordinary ombudsman institution with a few simple sentences. But right now, the most prestigious ombudsmen in the world are Danish ombudsmen. Why? The personality of the ombudsmans. Whatever you write in this law, no matter how much control you put in this law, no matter how much control you put in it, no matter what you put in it, if the people who are going to run these funds, if they give this trust and account for all investors with objective criteria, respect the transparent, universal rule of law, and if they don't make it available, then Turkey has wasted its chances of building a wealth fund. That's what we do. I wish you all the best of this opportunity.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0087par0101	Thank you, Mr. Cleanel. Mr. Selin Sayek Böke will speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Böke.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0088par0105	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. President, I salute you all. Turkey's economy needs serious treatment. With a holistic recovery plan, he needs to implement the right treatment with a detailed assessment of the correct diagnosis, because Turkey has been badly managed for years. The economy is moving towards a future where it can't grow by three percent. 6 million of our citizens are unemployed, can't find a job or can't even look for a job. She was forced to give up her future and her child's tomorrow. Inflation expectations are going down one after the other. Economic actors do not find the goals set by economic management realistic, they do not take these goals seriously, and this distrust is increasing day by day. Turkey is at the top of its fellow sergeant relations economy. Within two years, he takes a major step back from being the 14th, becoming the 8th. All of these are the most concrete indicators of the AKP's consumption and construction model, funded by external financing, now based on structural limits. Where 14 years of power carried the economy of Turkey, the bleeding tradesman, capital crushed under an empire of fear, and even worse, am I a victim of work killings? Turkey is now at an important crossroads: We will continue this disaster to be a reality at our citizen's table every day, so we will insist on a model that we know is coming to an end, or we will create a new, new development move, create new riches and build a system that will share these riches with the truth, so we will end the disaster. For this new development move, first of all, we need an education based on secular, scientific, rational and equal opportunity. (HPP) For this new development move, first and foremost, we need a real democracy, a state of law, and freedom. For this new development move, we need a public order based on merit, not who you are, but a resource distribution mechanism that you're judged by the work you can do. For this new development move, we need a power that is too conscious of Turkey to sacrifice the future of its children for its own pleasure today. [[Applause from CHP rows]] However, when we look at the proposals of the law that was rushed to parliament after the July 15 coup attempt, it is clear that an old economy has come before us. The intent is obvious. The summation of legislation proposals for the economy after July 15th: first the peace of property, then the sale of assets, and now the asset fund. And don't forget the mandatory BES, which was in the pocket of the intermediary worker. We've often and loudly expressed our concerns about this package of assets, and we'll continue to express it. You've brought a series of proposals to the House that will make you say "The Inspector AKP." You heard our concerns, and yesterday you gave up selling assets and boroughs. Let's all give up this state of assets today and no one can call you the current merchant. Remember that a Turkish asset fund to be built in this condition can only be a Turkish mortgage fund. With this bill, unfortunately, once again, we see that the government says "APP" not "Turkey," not "AKP," not "AKP," not "Vantist," not "Administrator." You're still worried about keeping the economy running. So this mortgage fund bill doesn't go beyond mouth-to-mouth as a last resort to sustaining the Rant economy. It'll help you breathe today, but tomorrow it won't keep you alive long enough to see your children graduate, your grandchildren born. This mortgage fund promises to create a parallel treasure hand-held to the country's revenues. Even though this Congress knows how much the country has suffered from the parallel. This mortgage fund opens up a way to use public resources without supervision, without pleasure. Another step is being made to push the budget out of constitutional control. The fiction of this mortgage fund makes fiscal discipline official by raising non-budget and unregistered activities without the balance of public finances, and exposes the genuine face of AKP (AKP), which has built itself over years of insincere fiscal discipline. As he removed the control mechanism, he will not be subject to the Public Contracts Act, and the project funding will be transferred to subsidiary companies under the name, as well as to other mechanisms so far, when the pain of transferring money to several subsidiary companies, including the Public Relation Act, is being recorded today. New parallels, new allies, and again mortgaged by a insistence on the blocked model of the ex-contractist AKP (AKP). This bill, once again, makes it very clear who the power is prioritizing. On the one hand, there's a rush that says we're going to spend your mandatory savings under "mega projects" for those who've invested in unemployment insurance for years, who've been throwing their hands into the pocket of paid labor. So by this law, once again, power has made it clear that its preference is the Rant economy. It is clear that the minimum wage will use the unemployment fund contribution to build Canal Istanbul, not to address the problem of 6 million unemployed. So he's saying that I'm taking a political choice in the market economy. He says he will take a deposit called "tasarruf" and transfer it to construction, which has been placed in the pocket of forced labor. So he's saying he's going to use a political choice for the Rant economy. With an unrestrained debt, with a mechanism that will automatically increase interest by competing with the treasure, tomorrow Turkey is the biggest obstacle to capital buildup. So he's saying that I'm taking a political choice in the market economy. Let's not take any lessons from our own history, we're excited to rebuild parallels, allies, so let's take advantage of the experiences of other countries. Just a few years ago, the world was rocked by a huge global financial crisis, and it's still shaking. Remember, that crisis was due to the creation of assets based on non-existent assets, and as a result of that crisis, all beings disappeared in one day. Look, these innovations, which were applauded that day, were a network all over the world. In America, pensioners in America alone lost $3 trillion in two years, the households lost $7 trillion. Come, listen to our call that your applause for yourselves today will become a web tomorrow, and withdraw this trust fund law immediately. Creating a real value based on a non-existent entity is not a miracle, it's jumping into an open financial pit. In fact, such beings are only meaningful when they exist. Turkey doesn't exist, I'm afraid. With this bill, with this mortgage fund, we send a clear message, condemning Turkey to mediocre status. But we're not doomed. Another economy, another future, another Turkey is possible. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0089par0121	Thank you. No questions, no answers, no questions. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part includes Articles 1 through 5. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı wants to speak on chapter one. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0090par0130	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first part of Law Proposal 413. On this occasion, I salute you all. The drafting of this law proposal has been the subject of the control of the Turkish Property Management Corporation and the Turkish Entity Fund, which is envisioned to be the most controversial subject. The government bill has stated that the financial tables of the company and funds will be audited by independent auditors and will not be subject to court supervision. We have warned that it is against the Constitution's 160th and 165th amendments to not be subject to the Court's audit of the company and funds from the very first moment of talks on the commission. Because the entire capital of the company is public and is the source of the funding. On our criticism of violations of the Constitution, the government aims to ensure that the funds and the funds will be audited by a control team assigned by the Prime Minister and that the audit report be met with a motion to discuss it in the Plan and Budget Commission. In addition, another motion has been made to establish an internal control unit. These audit proposals have made the law proposal better in terms of control than it was in its original form, but it is not understood why the Court has been avoided. According to Article 160 of the Constitution, the Court is tasked with overseeing all revenues and costs of the public administration budget and social security institutions on behalf of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and establishing the account and transactions of the responsible for the audits, auditing and binding of the laws. More than half of the capital of the Constitution, according to Article 165, has been envisioned by law to oversee public enterprises and partnerships, which are directly or indirectly state-owned by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The procedures and foundations for the audit of public economic initiatives in accordance with the purposes of the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation are also organised by Law 3346. According to Law No. 6085, public administrations and social security institutions, local administrations, private partnerships established directly or indirectly in its capital with private laws and other public administrations are controlled by all kinds of administrations that these governments have established or are directly or indirectly partnered in, institution, institution, union, enterprises and companies; all public accounts, funds, resources and activities are controlled by the Court. The Court also stipulates that external control should be carried out by the Court in the Law on Financial Management and Control 5018. The Court is a very important constitutional institution for Turkey's Grand National Assembly to exercise its budget rights and carry out its command of supervision. The Court uses its control authority over public resources on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Although the government has neutralized the Court in a series of operations against the Court, it is still terrified of being audited, fleeing the Court's audit. At the cost of disrupting the Court's Law as a reform and the control system brought with the Public Financial Management and Control Law, he has arranged to create a special control team for external control, including those appointed by the Prime Minister. What's the reason you're so afraid of control, so out of control? Are you afraid you won't be able to answer for what you've done? The audit contributes to the prevention of corruption and plays a powerful deterrent in the abuse and waste of public funds, for example, by inhibiting the tendency of public resources to be sold for personal gains. The audit prevents strengthening the legal, financial and institutional roof that allows corruption to develop, and contributes to the creation of legal and administrative structures aimed at preventing corruption. It reduces pleasure in implementing rules and laws and contributes to transparency in public administration. Thus, an effective control system will contribute to the development of public administration accountability and transparency. The audit phenomenon serves as a responsibility to account for and provide valuable observations and information to the individual or to the organisation, adding credibility to the statements of the agency's accountability. Control is essential for improving accountability and is essential for public sector performance. Control is an effective tool for increasing transparency and openness in state transactions and contributes to the development of the state's performance. Corruption also results in a reduction in quality while increasing the cost of public goods and services. Corruption increases the country's external dependency and poverty. Corruption causes the public to lose respect for corporate authority. Corruption creates a moral breakdown. Corruption prevents foreign capital from coming directly to a country that can actually contribute to production. Corruption deflects countries' investment preferences and prevents effective use of resources. Control is an effective force in the war on corruption. At the same time, the audit can play a role in preventing the waste and abuse of public funds through antichef decision mechanisms that are not of public interest. The audit analyses public transactions and activities, and reports of their findings contribute to the implementation of good governance in public administration. In particular, external audits play an important role in promoting the value of money in public services by guaranteeing adequate accountability, supporting appropriate standards of conduct in public services. The audit function provides a reliable flow of information about general accepted ethical standard violations, legality, accounting, savings, efficiency, and deviations from the principles of activity. This information has played a leading role in parliament's use of sovereignty on behalf of the public, in implementing administrative reforms of the administration. There are many factors for the success of control. The most important can be listed as open duty and authority, independence, adequate resources and personnel. On the other hand, sharing information and experience and resolving the control system in a certain standard are essential to providing the benefits expected from the audit. At this point, the importance of the Court's audit, which conducts external audits on behalf of parliaments, is revealed. One of the tools of parliaments to use sovereignty on the public's behalf is the ability of institutions and executives to oversee all actions and procedures. Thus, the effectiveness of the Court's audit means that Parliament will use the sovereignty rights more effectively. From another point of view, areas where the Court's control cannot be extended are in areas where parliament cannot dominate the nation because of its lack of control. Therefore, we emphasize that it is wrong not to foresee the Court's audit in the proposal of the law. Once again, I express to you from here the need for the audit clause to be carried out by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0091par0144	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Aykut Erdoğdu will speak. Mr. Erdoğdu, I'm so sorry for your loss again. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0092par0154	Mr. President, thank you very much, thank you, friends, God bless you. Mr. President, we're talking about the Law on Property Fund. His name is beautiful, we have assets, we'll fund him, we'll get this fund, we'll transfer it to future generations. Other countries have built it, and we need to build it. His theory is good, but is that his practice? Dear friends, a country has an accounting. First, let's see if we have any assets, what kind of accounting, what do we owe, what do we get? You can look very easily, when you enter the website of the Turkish Central Bank of Republic, we have a table called the international investment position. This international investment position means our national accounting, our nation's relationship with other nations in debt, its relationship with property-management. When you look at this international investment position table -- let me look with you again -- as of right now, our total assets for the second quarter of 2016, as of now, are 233 billion dollars in the interest of other nations. You know, Mr. Erdogan, what Mr. Erdogan keeps saying is that the gold in the Central Bank, our other companies, including all of them, our presence in the interests of other nations, is 233 billion dollars that we're going to buy. So how much do we owe to other nations of the world? How much do we as a nation owe to other nations of the world? Our total debt is $612 billion. Our net presence is negatively 378 billion. 80 million people living here owe money to other people of the world, $380 billion to us. That was about 80 billion dollars when you arrived. You've raised the debt of this country's people to other peoples of the world in the last 300 billion and fourteen years. We now owe $300 billion. What is it when you look at the last 14 years? Here you have an Ottoman Vezi Bridge that is constantly drawn before you, constantly retreating. We're going to build a third bridge, a bridge we don't like by name anyway, a bridge we don't like where it is. There's an air that we live in the Stone Age, we have no bridges, we have no roads; thanks to the government, the Justice and Development Party introduced us to something called a bridge. Yeah, and there were two bridges before you. For example, we have a third airport project. How do we do that? How many third airports are there with $300 billion? 30. We've got one more project, and they've laid some groundwork, and it's going to come out like a marketplace, you'll see.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0093par0158	It comes in at 2018, Deputy.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0092par0159	Yes, in 2018, I'll tell you how we have a third airport, don't worry. Now, what did we say? While we owe $300 billion to other nations, we're going to build the Entity Fund, and we're going to invest $200 billion in this Entity Fund. Now, we're looking, hopefully, of course, God bless the land, not 200, but 500. But is it? Let's see if things work out with God. Now, do you owe $300 billion? I do. What are you gonna do to get another 200? You're gonna owe me $500 billion. You're going to lend $500 billion to the future, not to the new generations. So, what are you going to do with this $200 billion? What we understand from your motive, Mega, is that you're going to finance your super-projects. What's your mega project? Osman Gazi Bridge, you're done. What does your minister say? 20,000 vehicles pass through here, and we've been waiting so long.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0094par0161	40 grand.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0092par0162	You guaranteed 40,000 vehicles. He's waiting for 20,000 vehicles, guaranteed 40,000 vehicles.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0095par0163	It's year one.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0092par0164	Now, what were they saying? The village of Gaziantep, the shepherd in Şırnak, the father of Manisa, the father of the Free Special, the poor man...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0096par0165	Count me in.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0097par0166	Mr. President, they're interfering with the conversation.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0092par0167	Engin Altay, we will all give money to Osman Gazi Bridge, which we never crossed. Why? Because there's a treasure guarantee. So, what kind of project was this? The do-and-do-development. Normally, if the government did it, the government would run it, the government would get paid, and the property would be government. The government said I don't have money. Come, you'll do it. What does it mean to do it? Find funding. Guys, where does he get his funding, mega contractors for these mega projects? Yeah, the world's looking at it, apologizing so much -- there's no project back there, there's no project this unqualified, they can't find a dime outside source. Where does he get the money? People's Bank, Agriculture Bank, Foundations Bank. What do you mean? State. I thought you were gonna do it yourself. Who's doing it? State. Who's gonna run it? He's a supporter. If the government's doing it, why is he running an ally? I'm asking a very simple question.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0098par0168	You're underestimating.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0092par0169	I'm not taking this the wrong way. Look, I'm just saying it in very simple words. The do-and-do came to get funding. Then you can put it in your contract, and you can say, "I'll give you a loan from public banks." Then you'll get an offer according to him. You transfer loans from public funds after you've been tendered. Who's transmitting? Agriculture Bank. Where does it normally transfer to? He'll pass it on to the farmer. Either the world was a cloud of dust, and the Agriculture Bank built it to finance the farmer, so I don't know if I should start here.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0098par0170	My dear Regent, the husband has applied for two companies, two consortiums for such a big project.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0092par0171	This is sabotaging the conversation, and when I'm done, you come out, and you tell me. Because you come from a very primal level.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0099par0172	Mr. Erdoğdu, please address the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0100par0174	Don't hear, don't hear.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0101par0175	It's hard not to, he's talking right next to me. Let me tell you, who will the People's Bank finance? He's a tradesman. The shopkeeper is crying blood, the People's Bank is going to finance the mega project. Why? Mehmet Genghis is leaving because he can't find the money. Now, where did they do the mega project?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0102par0178	Is that all you guys are hanging out about?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0101par0179	They built it in the northern forests of Istanbul. There are only trees in the northern forests of Istanbul. And that project was supposed to be there? For example, they built the third airport. I'm asking: The cost of renovating Ataturk Airport is about $1 billion. If you could build an additional runway at Ataturk Airport...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0102par0180	It's not possible, it's possible. 75 million square feet, six runways.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0101par0181	Either this one has research, or there's no way. You're talking about something you don't know.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0102par0182	No, we're talking in our area of expertise.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0101par0183	Ask the General Directorate of State Airports about this project, is it prepared? Let's talk on purpose, please.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0102par0184	We're teaching him a lesson.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0101par0185	Now look, for $1 billion, they can expand the Ataturk Airport project, but they're building an airport in the forest, right in the middle of the northern forest.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0102par0186	It's a great field, it's great.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0101par0187	Why? Because it's not the intention of building an airport. Why are they building the bridge from a dead end? There's a forest there. What's a jungle? State property, huh? What do you mean, government land? It's zero-priced land. What will they do with the forest? They're going to build malls, residences, housing as it is. Why are they doing this? Because they're going to take that zero-priced plot, they're going to build a thousand liras per square meter of the most luxurious construction, they're going to sell it to strangers for a million liras, 900,000 dollars will be divided between them.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0102par0188	But you're insulting highway engineers, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0101par0189	Anything for us, anything for the public? Look at the model in Tokyo, see if there's anything for the people. DOES TOKI have land expenses? No. Building, registration, tuition, what's the cost? He did it all on top of it and he sold it. How's TOKI doing right now? It's sinking, TOKI's sinking. The cost of lawsuits has come to $2.3 billion. So, what's going on with the public? The public won't get hurt. What are they doing now? They have a lot of dreams, we're going to do things like this, we're going to do projects like this... do they have money? They ate all the money, they owe $300 billion, and they have dreams. What's his dream? Like Osman Gazi Bridge, like the third airport, Turkey has no...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0102par0190	Congressman, you're an Istanbul deputy, don't you know about traffic jams?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0101par0191	Hey, man, let me talk to you for a second. For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0103par0192	Congressmans, let's not talk mutually, please.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0102par0193	You're saying it wrong.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0103par0194	Mr. Ilıcalı, please.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0102par0195	As an Istanbul deputy, you should know about the traffic jam.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0104par0196	Now, what's he trying to do? The third airport is their thing, the image project. No one talks about it. I'm out of here, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out, I'm Brother, this is a bankrupt project, a corrupt project; everyone knows what it is, but you're taking away my child's future, you're giving it to him as a treasure guarantee. You're not just staying with this, your total treasure guarantee is $125 billion. You owe me my grandson, my child, everything. Why did you borrow it? He's about to transfer funds to his ally. You're doing a project, in front of a project like Ataturk Airport, this project has no feasibility, no architectural plan.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0105par0199	You don't know the friends who do those calculations.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0104par0200	The ground where they went and did it was bad, the mines were rusted. They've spent $1.5 or 2 billion, 9 percent of the project isn't finished because they haven't even looked at the structure of the land where they're going to spill $30 billion. Whereas their own municipalities -- I think they're about to be arrested today -- I understand from the news -- are sitting with all the municipalities who have planned an Istanbul environment. For the airport, the right place is Silivri. Why don't they do it? Because if he does it to Silivri, he will not win. But, what's he doing there? It's a canal, like they're gonna use it. He will do the work of both the Mediterranean and the Aegean and the Black Sea. Why? He's going to nationalize the canal, build a building there. You run a government based on typical building contractor logic. As of right now, the state has become: We were heavily ill, he had a heart attack on December 17th, and on July 15th, he suffered a cerebral hemorrhage. Thanks to you, you paralyzed him and now he's lying there.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0106par0201	He's in the ICU.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0104par0202	First we're gonna get rid of you, then we're gonna save this state, and then we're gonna save the people. We are against the foundation of this Entity Fund, which will bring poverty to Turkey, not existence. Greetings and salutations.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0107par0205	Mr. Erdoğdu, thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Nursel Aydoğan will speak. Here you are, Mr. Aydoğan.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0108par0209	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, and I have taken the party on behalf of the HDP on the basis of the establishment of the Turkish Entity Fund. First of all, I salute you all. Yeah, I'm a member of the Plan Budget Commission. The draft laws for the Plan Budget Commission are discussed, and despite all criticism after the debate, the ruling party, despite proposals and opinions, is often passed by the ruling party, with more than 95 per cent consideration and no castles taken. Of course, that's what we knew would happen when the Turkish Entity Fund came to the Plan Budget Commission. Despite that, the most criticised by the opposition was a draft law, which was offered the most opinions and proposals. However, despite intense criticism, the ruling party passed it through the Plan Budget Commission, as did the others, on the basis of a very small number of changes, despite the opinions and suggestions presented. First of all, I'd like to say that that's not very true. Of course, the ruling party has a numerical majority, but Turkey is a democratic country, and we are governed by democracy. In democratic countries, the ruling and opposition parties in countries run by democracy have a duty to co-operate, to work together from time to time, to co-work collectively, to discuss Turkey's future, especially by agreeing on laws such as the Turkish Entity Fund. If this doesn't happen, I'm really saying it's a shame about Turkey's democracy, so it's not going to be a good thing. I wish for better examples from now on, as a congressman. Now, my dear friends, we state that this Turkish Entity Fund, founded as the HDP Group, is the most privileged company ever established in Turkey. The asset fund will be exempted from the Court's supervision once, its assets will not be foreclosed, and it will not be granted a precautionary decision on their assets. It will also be exempted from other taxes, such as income tax, institutional tax, stamp tax, bank and insurance treatment tax, property tax, deed fees, and sub-funds. Now -- and I've just stated -- that the effective opposition to the Commission, which is completely exempt from control, has been partially supervised by the Turkish Entity Fund Management Corporation, but even this partial part is very problematic. This audit will be provided by an accounting team assigned by the Prime Minister rather than by the Court. An institution appointed by the Prime Minister will, again, oversee an expert team assigned by the Prime Minister, which means an irrational procedure. Instead of discussing the company's budget, the Plan and Budget Commission will be presented with a report from the audit team assigned by the Prime Minister. In the matter of the law, however much the Plan and Budget Commission has a say in the report presented, it remains uncertain. The AKP's government states that Turkey is the only country in the G20 countries that does not have a national asset fund on the grounds for the establishment of the Turkish Entity Fund. However, the argument that not only Turkey has such a fund among the G20 countries does not reflect the truth. Because these funds were originally established to manage these excesses, to prevent more foreign trade surpluses from causing financial instability, or to become an actor in the global financial markets, due to large amounts of oil and gas revenues such as the United Arab Emirates, Norway or Russia, or because of foreign trade, such as the People's Republic of China. Since such interest surpluses are not involved in Turkey, it can be understood that such a fund is not the reason for its establishment, it is already not established during 14 years of power. Now, it would be more appropriate to look for other economic and political reasons behind this being set up. For the past year, both political and economic instability have increased financial risks, the economy is fluctuating and the funding of foreign investors due to instability has led to severe declines in assets, the demand for foreign currency is increasing, and the markets are also reducing liquidity, and this picture raises concerns for economic stability every day. It is clear that the Turkish Entity Fund was founded because it would take a balancing position in the period of economic fluctuation to address these problems. Other reasons are secondary reasons. However, as long as the fundamental problems that led Turkey to economic and political instability remain unresolved, we will see that the Fund of Being will not be in trouble. The main thing is that the fundamental problems -- particularly the Kurdish problem -- which has led Turkey to economic and political instability -- are not solved, not to be separated from democracy every day and not to be eliminated from the basis of the impact. In a country where economic and political instability exists, it is clear that companies founded on funds will be affected by this instability in the first degree and will face the same challenges in implementing investments. In Norway, for example, the redistribution of intergenerational wealth is considered one of the reasons for the fund's creation. There is no such reason among the grounds for the establishment of the Turkish Entity Fund because this fund aims to further enlarge the capital sector, which is massed by political power. So with this fund established, there's nothing in Turkey that belongs to workers, to the poor, to the pensioner. On the contrary, privatisations to feed this fund will be given speed, and from the unemployment fund, which has been accumulated by the labourer's money by selling public resources, will also be created by the mandatory individual pension fund. This will mean that we have experienced and have seen many examples in the past, and that all the values of workers that have been accumulated will be plundered and confiscated. We hope not, but the examples of the past are exactly what I described and described. Dear friends, as a result, we all know that in a country where there is instability, in a country where there is economic and political instability, the structural problems of the economy can't be instilled by building a fund such as the Turkish Entity Fund. I would like to say once again that these structural problems cannot be instilled with such a fund, that it is not necessary to establish such a fund in a country like Turkey for the time being. I salute you once again on behalf of our party.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0109par0221	Thank you, Mr. Aydoğan. Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırözer will speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0110par0225	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to express my satisfaction that our request for the offer of this Entity Fund, not in a bag of legislation, but separately, is accepted by both the ruling party and other opposition parties, as well as the opportunity for us to discuss it in this way. That's the only way we can prevent the bag of law, where we can avoid the specific issues, and I'd like to express my satisfaction. It's not the first time in the world these kind of funds are built, there are other examples. You know, the ones that are particularly highlighted in the West, in the United States, in the Middle East, especially in the Gulf countries, but what they have in common is the current surplus, the austerity surplus. What separates us from that is that our citizens have a very low savings rate, which is why we are facing serious difficulties in our economy. But when our savings are low, when the savings are low in Turkey, and such a fund is established, it's important to know where the source will come from. So my friends are always saying, we've talked about the commissions, and the source of this is what we can see, and as we've been told, the mandatory individual pension funds from the worker, from the civil servant, about 100 billion pounds of unemployment insurance that should be spent on our unemployed, I've just told you that the mandatory individual pension is going to come from there, $100 billion, and it's going to be 50 billion without privatisation. So the public, the public's money will be used to build such a large fund. So, as we look at it here, our Minister Zechariah Maziel said in detail, so it's worrying that when we look at the way it works, it's creating a debt fund, not a trust fund. So it's like a new treasure parallel to the treasure is being created, a new debt is emerging. In fact, even though it was said that there would be no debt, all economists agree that it would create a new debt as much as this. Of course, it's very important to control a fund that's so large that the public's money, the laborer, the worker, the officer's money will be used. During our work at the Plan and Budget Commission, we brought it to a certain point with mutual talks, both with the ruling party and other opposition parties -- the first one to arrive -- there was only one independent auditor who inspected it. There was an expression, and it was completely out of the control of the Assembly. Currently, the Plan and Budget Commission has the opportunity to re-check the control of both the independent auditor and the delegation, which will be determined by the Prime Minister. However, this does not replace the control of the National Assembly, the Court, which literally means control of the nation. So after chapter one, we're going to bring important motions for control, both in chapter one and in chapter two. The issue of inspection is absolutely important -- we really have to answer for a penny, we have to do it -- one of us -- of course. One of the things that we should all be paying attention to when we look at examples -- especially in other countries -- is that, for example, when the 2008 crisis occurred in America, such funds were used to save troubled companies, especially to fund them. Cari, because we don't have a lot of savings, because we don't have that kind of use in our country, so if there's a way of doing that -- if there's a method in our country -- that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that's the waste of resources that our citizens will need. I, of course, once again, believe, in particular, that the motion to submit in Article 4 should be supported by all of you, for example, by the motion for audit in Article 6 and the motion in Article 8 of Article 8 -- which has been exempted from the Court's supervision in the Commission, once again, we will ask for the Court's audit to be adopted. Otherwise, I'm telling you, the loss of the public's resources, the corruption of the public's resources, will end badly for all of us, and we can't give the account to anyone. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit04spe0111par0235	Thank you, Mr. Cacharouser. On behalf of him, secondly, Erzurum MP İbrahim Aydemir will speak. Mr. Aydemir... they're not here. No questions, no answers. So the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses on chapter one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit05spe0111par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0111par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 413. Commission? Here. Government? Here. There are two motions on the first article of the proposal: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 413-trial Justice and Development Party's Deputy President Mustafa Elitaş and Isparta MP Suriya Sadi Bilgic and 14 MPs will request the amendment of the 1st Article (2/1319) to the draft of the Law Against the Law on Value Taxes of Turkey and to the amendment of the 14 MPs. Utku Çakırözer Ancient Durmaz Bkent Kuşoğlu Moses Pine Zechariah Haziel İlhan Kesici MADDE 1- (1) The aim of this Law is to provide vehicle diversity and depth in capital markets, provide external resources, participate in strategic, large-scale investments, to establish and manage subsidized subsidiaries and to manage this fund, and to organize the foundations for the establishment, management, and activities of the Turkish Investment Fund. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the first article of Law Proposal No. 413 be removed from the proposal text. Çağlar Demirel Osman Baydemir Selma River Suryet Taşdemir Saadet Able Behçet Yıldırım Ayhan Bilgen Mahmoud Celadet Bagadeli Does the commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0112par0024	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0111par0025	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0113par0026	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0111par0027	On the motion, Mr. Suryet Taşdemir will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0114par0029	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. We've been talking about the bag of laws for four days. Obviously, when we look at the items in the bag of legislation, they're collected, unrelated materials, and somehow, they're trying to be shared. We know that the AKP is trying to create its own economic policy by turning the air into an opportunity after this coup attempt, under the immediate attempt to pass through the law like this. The name of this economic policy is in fact the corporateisation of an entire country and its management in the form of a company. In this bill, there are obviously a lot of clauses in this bill, and many of these items suggest that the cities of Hakkari and Şırnak should be districts, especially the 23rd article, the 50th article, and the trustees. Yes, the trustees and Hakkari and Şırnak were taken last night, but the opening of them to debate in this Parliament is actually a sign of antidemocratic mentality. We know where this mentality is fed, and this mentality is clearly fed by the Shark Islamist Plan. The Shark Islahat Plan was the name of denial, destruction and assimilation of Kurds, and that law, in fact, was approved in this Parliament by those before you. So, perhaps, you don't deny the existence of Kurds today, you can't say that in the face of the growing struggle, and even with the reflection of this struggle, there are several Kurdish lawmakers at the same time as you are now sitting in power, but there are Kurds where you are now, but the Kurds don't have the will, and I don't know this will. So you never lost the status of the Shark Islamic Plan, especially after the coup attempt, on May 27th, or even on September 12th, that policy has been updated, and so you've brought it up after the July 15th coup attempt to update this policy. What, though, is the thought or mentality or understanding that you are actually basing on when discussing these substances? Yes, you say a lot of things, you say: "Help the terror." You know it's a great slander, lies and manipulation. Investigators you've assigned to our municipalities 24/7 are doing research, research. So far, not a single piece of evidence has been found. If it had been found, believe me, it would have been very easy for you to do so, and you would have claimed it here, in fact, with the help of the pool media. But don't worry, the trustee's offer has been withdrawn, but you have governors and trustees in the locals, who are more monarchs than trustees. Therefore, there is no one above them in injustice, in lawlessness, in obstruction of service. Look, I'm going to give you just one example: Diyadin district of Ağrı. In fact, it's one of the poorest districts in Turkey. There has not been a single service for Diyadin for 80 years. He was elected co-chair of Hazal Aras Diyadin in 2014. Diyadin's face changed with Hazal Aras, but Hazal Aras has been in prison 11 months today. We don't know why Hazal is in prison, neither do the people of Diyadin, nor does Hazal. But Hazal, who tried Hazal, who made this arrest decision, was previously suspended on charges of being a member of the Fethullahist terrorist organization, and then taken into custody. And this judge's decision was nullified? No, because Hazal is still in prison. So you claimed that we are fighting coupters, coupters, and why is Hazal still in prison? Or is this alliance still going on when it comes to Kurds? Yes, when we look at the policies in the Kurdistan today, it's clear and clear that this alliance is ongoing.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0115par0037	There's no Kurdistan, there's the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0114par0038	The coupgers are inside, but their ideas are in power. Yes, you've been in power for 12 years, calling it "the will of the nation," but when it comes to Kurds, you don't accept the will of the Kurds nationally or domestically. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0116par0042	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman The 413-trial Justice and Development Party's Deputy President Mustafa Elitaş and Isparta MP Suriya Sadi Bilgic and 14 MPs to the establishment of Turkey's Fund of Property and to the amendment of the Law on Add Value Tax Act (2/1319) we ask that the 1st Amendment be changed as follows. Utku Cakirözer (Eskişehir) and his friends MADDE 1- (1) The aim of this Law is to provide vehicle diversity and depth in capital markets, provide external resources, participate in strategic, large-scale investments, to establish and manage subsidized subsidiaries and to manage this fund, and to organize the foundations for the establishment, management, and activities of the Turkish Investment Fund. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0117par0050	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0116par0051	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0118par0052	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0116par0053	İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0119par0056	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary a question first. Recently, a few days ago, people who worked for nearly 40 euros in Chaykur were fired as members of the parallelist organization. We're looking, we're looking, they're not saying anything, and they're saying to their relatives, they're saying, "What about the seasonal workers from Ankara?" We wonder if the MIT has been dealing with seasonal workers in Chakur, who didn't know about the coup, who couldn't tell the Prime Minister. Let's take a look at this. Another issue: Writing to private companies from some governorships is said to have never been given a job for civil servants who have been dismissed for this reason. My dear friends, if they've committed a crime, they're going to jail anyway. And even if they were, their parents, or teachers who were never known to have committed any crimes, are they going to live in this country, or are they going to starve, or are we going to punish everyone? Let's have a little compassion. My dear friends, I have a few words to say about the proposal for the Turkey asset fund we're discussing, and I won't be long. Now, you're 14 years of power. When you look at the economy in these fourteen years, our friends have expressed -- an economy based on Rant and construction like that goes, grows, so, it gets close to 10,000 dollars per person, and it's stuck here since 2008, 2009. Now, you've used a lot of resources to do that. Turkey is heavily in debt, future generations are in debt. Now, this fund or company that you brought as a trust fund doesn't match any of the other examples in the world. Our friends have expressed, what, our oil, we don't have a lot of gas, we don't have a lot of money, we don't have a lot of money, we don't have a lot of gas, we don't have a lot of money. We have nothing to save for posterity. This fund or this company is not for future generations, it's not for future generations, it's for future generations, it's for future generations. My dear friends, we're going to put all the assets in one place, we're going to finance the big projects, we're going to go somewhere, Canal Istanbul will be built, houses, construction around it, construction, you know, you're going to make a breakthrough -- you don't know anything else -- and you're going to transfer it to future generations and so on. You did something else yesterday with the fourth joke of the 75th article. You didn't just borrow future generations, you seized their water, their land, their air, their surroundings. You have no conscience, my dear friends. Look, I'll tell you one thing: in the history of Turkey, there have been times when there have been jumps in the economy. Here, the time of the Mendesres has gone to the wall... only, in fact, was a coup - God rest his soul - not him - the economy is troubled. Then it happened during the Iron Age, during the Özal period, and each time it was passed by a crisis, a problem.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0120par0063	Whatever good work was done, it was done at that time.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0119par0064	Now, in your era, the economy of Turkey has come to a point, somewhere. Because of the reasons that I just said -- and I'll give you a little bit of these reasons -- you couldn't make an economy that actually made the economy of Turkey worth adding, you didn't do it, you didn't think about it. You're stuck with the runt and the construction and stuff, and you're stuck with it. Turkey's economy today has no resources, no savings. It's all true, but it's not an economy that produces added value because you didn't invest in education, you didn't invest in RD, you didn't develop democracy, you didn't improve the legal state. You hit a wall because you didn't do all this, you're about to hit it. Now, to borrow money, you're doing everything that the world financial system has imposed on you, people or environments who are going to lend money. In fact, from the beginning, they wanted to lend you money, they wanted to borrow interest; you did everything they said, and now you're doing everything. By responding to all of Turkey's assets, you borrow by mortgage, that's what you do. I wonder why this Western world -- the money there, the financiers there -- is against you? I don't understand. Why do they want to take you down? In fact, you do everything he says. What's the situation? I wonder if with all these threats, these things, they want you to do more work with them, do they want to get more interest? I don't understand. Look, my dear friends, this is really not the way, not the way. So by narrowing democracy even further, you're wrong to Turkey by putting the state of law on hold in some way, as did the workers -- and by not investing in the economy that actually produces it, by sharing the runt economy with the construction economy. Turkey can't go on like this, dear friends. My respects.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0121par0068	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the first article is accepted. Mr. Special, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0122par0074	Mr. President, the ruling party's group proposal has just been accepted. The context of this group proposal includes the Council taking a vacation until October 1st. Of course, when such a state of emergency is taking place and the KHKs need to be discussed, we never approve of the council taking a vacation. But another issue is that after the coup attempt on the evening of July 15th, we wrote a text with the common will of the four parties, and immediately a consensus developed on the establishment of the Commission for Research on the Impact. During the time of all opposition parties related to this Commission, they have identified and reported MPs to appoint on this Commission within a reasonable time, but the ruling party has not yet made this declaration. In the group talk, Mr. President asked why and asked for an answer. The answer is aside, but the House... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0121par0077	I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0122par0078	Thank you. If Parliament is to take a vacation by October 1st with the proposed ruling party, which has just been adopted, it will not be possible for this Commission to work until October 1st, since they still haven't reported members to the Commission and cannot start working on this Commission. I mean, it's never acceptable for the Parliament to pass on the ruling party's agreement against such a coup attempt, so that it would be unacceptable for the ruling party not to report its work before its start. Later in the day, we expect this membership notification to be made and that this Commission will be able to work, which will show a common stance against this coup by completing the procedure required by the presidency. I'd like to express your appreciation.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0123par0081	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, you'll probably see him together, you'll make a decision, and we'll do what we have to do here. There are two motions on Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 413th Article (3) of Article 2 of the Law Proposal shall be changed as follows by the establishment of the Turkish Entity Fund Management Corporation No. 413. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Naci Bostancı Halis Dalklıç Hikmet Hakmet Muş Mehmet Doğan Kubat The company considers the goals set in its strategic investment plan and its preferences for liquidity, investment, risk and return; A) The share of domestic and foreign companies, the share of exporters established in Turkey and abroad, and the purchase of private foreign investment certificates and other vehicles and other vehicles, which are exported based on valuable minerals and goods and goods. B) All kinds of money market transactions, C) The assessment of property and property-based rights and all non-profit rights ) Any project development, project-based funding, external project loans and other methods of providing resources, d) Any commercial and financial activity, It takes place in national and international primary and secondary markets. The company can participate in national investments and investments in other states and/or foreign companies in international areas. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Law Proposal 413 be removed from the proposal text. Çağlar Demirel Osman Baydemir Selma River Suryet Taşdemir Behçet Yıldırım Saadet Capable Ayhan Bilgen Mahmoud Celadet Güdalı Ertuğul Kürççı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0124par0109	Mr. President, we commend the first reading motion.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0123par0110	No, no, I'm asking about the second motion right now.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0124par0111	Second motion, sir, we disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0123par0112	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0125par0113	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0123par0114	Mr. Ertugrul Kürkcı will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0126par0117	Mr. President, dear friends, in regard to this bill, both our Garo Paylan friend and the Republican People's Party Group have made it very clear that Zechariah Maziel spoke on behalf of our group. I think it's clear to me why one can't be achieved in such a law that no one can say you don't understand, why these goals can't even be set in the context of Turkey's real economic existence; we've understood all this. But I see that we'll all understand that it's not understood because the Justice and Development Party will say yes to it, and we already know that. However, let me tell you a few things: there have been many predictions before the 15th of July. Starting in 2015, analysts watching the Middle East closely, as well as people working in the foreign affairs of the United States in general, wrote that a coup could be expected in Turkey in 2016. Generally speaking, Parliament, Government, even political parties -- let me tell you, in addition to our own party -- we didn't take very many forts of these predictions, but we faced a very strong coup attempt in July of 2016, July 15th. These analysts based their analysis on two things. One: Turkey's recession economic situation. Second: Despite the need for international capital flow to close the capital deficit on a massive scale, diplomacy said that its failure to close this capital deficit with foreign policy brought with it a huge economic challenge. We didn't think it was possible, but there was a first possibility. So it looks like the second possibility is going to happen whether we give it a chance or you don't, because the project that you're putting out is actually a project that goes on by folding this problem. This doesn't have any economic rationalization, we all know that. It's impossible to understand in a consistent economic framework. An asset management project that would double its external debt capacity could actually be just a hallucination. However, this will obviously come our way. So, what could be the motive? And why would a law be passed to do something that wouldn't have happened so much? I think there are two reasons for this: the first, in fact, today, what provides economic cycles in Turkey is the hormonal growth of the construction industry alone. This basically predicts contributing to this. Secondly, goals called 2023 targets cannot be caught in the routine functioning of the economy, so Channel Istanbul cannot be made, none of the other mega projects can be carried out within these entities. So, by taking from Turkey's future to today, we were trying to find a way out of this. We can see together that this is not a cure, that this will increase economic problems, that it will increase the current deficit, that it will make it more fragile. So I'm going to say, in fact, instead of dealing with these fantastic jobs, we can do two things: first of all, we can even improve the political situation to attract foreign investment in Turkey, we can create a wider democracy. Second, we can open the door for citizens, economics, society to participate more effectively in the governance of politics, so we can stop the war, offer the Kurdish people peace in the Republic of Turkey. Then all these fantastic projects won't be necessary. You can transfer the resources you've destroyed to life. Why don't we do this? Because we're run by a state-run party that's taken over all the past rationalities of the state of Turkey, a spiral that can't get out of it; that's why. I hope the state doesn't end up in the end of your party. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0127par0122	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 413th Article (3) of Article 2 of the Law Proposal shall be changed as follows by the establishment of the Turkish Entity Fund Management Corporation No. 413. Wisdom Adjustment (Rize) and Friends The company considers the goals set in its strategic investment plan and its preferences for liquidity, investment, risk and return; A) The share of domestic and foreign companies, the share of exporters established in Turkey and abroad, and the purchase of private foreign investment certificates and other vehicles and other vehicles, which are exported based on valuable minerals and goods and goods. B) All kinds of money market transactions, C) The assessment of property and property-based rights and all non-profit rights ) Any project development, project-based funding, external project loans and other methods of providing resources, D) All commercial and financial activities are carried out in national and international primary and secondary markets. The company can participate in national investments and investments in other states and/or foreign companies in international areas.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0128par0134	Mr. President, at this point, if you'll excuse me, I have something very short to say.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0127par0135	Here you go. Your time is one minute.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0128par0137	Mr. President, in this law, we see positive contributions from both the Plan and Budget Commission and all the opposition parties here. Now, here's a ruling party motion. When we look at this motion -- and our Commission members are here -- there's no clarity in what came out between the normal text and this text, what came out, and what came out of it. And when the motive is read, we don't understand it, if the motive is read soon. If -- if, of course, one of the motions, which is theirs -- if one of the motions, if you think it's appropriate, to present it from the stand or from you, to the General Assembly's information, if the grounds are to be read, we need additional information. But if it can be explained from the podium, we'd be very pleased to hear what the motion has done, because the fact that there's been no hesitation from the appliances... in a study that's going in such a positive atmosphere, they'll probably agree to our request. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0127par0139	Thank you. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0129par0141	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0127par0142	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0130par0143	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0127par0144	Do you have any explanations? No.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0131par0145	Motive...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0132par0146	Mr. President, this motion is written as a jointly written issue in the article of Article 2 of the article, as well as on the proposal of the opposition, in the form of choice, and its grounds are linked to this.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0127par0147	Okay. I'm running the motion through motive.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0133par0149	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0127par0150	Please...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0133par0151	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0127par0152	Sir?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0133par0153	Look, with the current amendment, there are serious stickers and additions in the text proposed by the Commission to the General Assembly. The Commissioner is here. Now, it's possible, of course, that you're going to explain it? We're not going to do it, it's not what. You can go like this, but it's an inappropriate counterposition for the positive contribution we've made. If they don't want us to take word and express our concerns in the following articles, we're satisfied with that... either give them five minutes, let them tell our commissioners, or let them take their word, and tell us why they're taking it out so they don't fail to implement it, what they're adding, why they're adding it. That's it...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0127par0154	Okay, well, I mean, I can't force anyone to talk.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0133par0155	You're right and I'm not speaking to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0127par0156	I know, but I'm making a statement to the House. No one wants a word right now.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0134par0157	Mr. President, doesn't the House have the right to information?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0133par0158	Sir, we'd like a five-minute recess, then.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0135par0159	Okay, let's take five.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit06spe0136par0160	All right, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger at the request of the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0136par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 413. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. On the 2nd article of the proposal, Rize MP Hikmet Hakmet and his friends' motion.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0137par0006	Read the reason.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0136par0007	I'm reading the reason: The proposal aims to make the current text more simple and understandable. In this framework, the company's activities towards supplying and funding through domestic and foreign money market vehicles and capital market transactions, taking into account its preferences for liquidity, investment, risk and revenue, with the goals set in the strategic investment plan. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Mr. Secretary will make a statement. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0138par0014	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm making a statement on a reminder from the Republican People's Party Group. During the commission talks, I attended part of it, and in the part where our Finance Minister attended, Mr. Naci Agbal was made much more clear by the commission's decision not to be limited to the provisions in the matter, and by the general expression of the Commission's request that this be defined, by our Minister of Finance's statement (3) of this clause (a), (c), (c) and (d). There are no changes made. I'd like to make it clear, Mr. President, for the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0139par0018	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0140par0019	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There's a motion in Article 3 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the Law Proposal 413 be removed from the proposal text. Çağlar Demirel Osman Baydemir Selma River Behcet Yıldırım Ayhan Bilgen Surah Taşdemir Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Mahmoud Toğrul of Saadet Capable Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0141par0030	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0140par0031	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0142par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0140par0033	Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0143par0036	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are now, you know, discussing an Entity Fund proposal. The truth is, dear friends, do we make laws in this House for the benefit of the public, for the benefit of the public, or do we provide an environment for the rankings, for the runners? Why I say this, why I say it, why we haven't exhausted all the talks on it yet, but somehow you didn't get us to talk about the item, which directly concerns my constituency, Gaziantep, my constituency, here I would like to renegotiate with you the purpose and goal. Now, dear friends, an additional clause was brought to the 12th article of the bag law in Gaziantep Şahinbey district, where a bill was introduced in order to prevent subsidisation earlier, in order to ensure that the land costs were paid to the people with legal interest if they were not built. When CHP submitted the motion, it asked for a text correction of the bill; since it was accepted, we did not have the right to speak on it. So, let's remember this, my dear friends: Now, in Karataş district of Gaziantep Şahinbey district of Karataş district in 2002, a model of what we call the "nuper housing" model is being assigned to 1,700 families. The district's mayor, Yaşar Ağır, of the CHP, of the period, is 60-70 lira in the year 2002. In 2004, the AKP-based municipality said it had given up the project, but by the way, the land is being paid for by 1,700 families. They're starting to pay the installments. The mayor, who arrived in 2004, says: "I gave up this project. The land track price, which was 60-70 liras, is now the equivalent of 1,500 lira in Gaziantep. Now, what does the city say? It says: OK, I'll give you your money, and I'll give you your legal interest. But that money comes at a price that's so low, because it's worth 10 times as much. Right now, therefore, the money to be paid to the citizen is very small. So, how does such a problem turn into a temporary clause in the Turkish Grand National Assembly? What is the power of the rant behind this, dear friends, that makes the House a law? How big is this money, how big is this rate? And the Republican People's Party, even though it assessed such a matter, says the reason for its motion is that it aims to make the text of the item more understandable. How can the Republican People's Party allow such a figure to be given in such a manner? What I'm saying is, look, the runt I'm talking about is a runt of this magnitude, and there's a power behind it that is so great that Turkey is coming to the Grand National Assembly and Turkey's National Assembly is passing a temporary law, where the citizens are losing their rights. Dear friends, we are obliged to make laws in this House for the benefit of the public, for the benefit of the public. We're either on the side of the beat, we're on the side of the runt, or we're on the side of the public. I'm saying, clearly, right now, those who have approved this law have accepted that they are in favor of this event. Before the General Assembly salutes the people of Gaziantep, those who say yes must answer, I offer my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0144par0044	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0145par0045	Mr. President, during the speaker's speech, he used strong criticism of the Republican People's Party and a direct taunt to mediate and condone the distribution of rants. Our right to answer will be used by our Commissioner Musa Pine.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0144par0046	Here you go, Mr. Pine. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0146par0051	Mr. President, the highly valued lawmakers have just made an assessment of the land that was distributed in the 2000s of Gaziantep province of Şahinbey, our dear orator friend here, said that the Republican People's Party had made a motion for it and that it was flawed in the runt distribution. Our very valuable Gaziantep MP Mehmet Gökdağ has explained in detail all the events that have happened here in Şahinbey. The plots disbanded during the Republican People's Party Mayor, the plots distributed to build housing, the whole thing is projects, everything is done, and then the Republican People's Party Mayor loses in the elections, a AKP mayor is coming. As soon as the AKP's mayor comes to work -- in his own opinion, of course, it's inevitable that it's a arbitrary attitude, it's true -- they suspend the project, and people go to trial for these projects that have been suspended; they're suing; they've won the important part of their cases, including compensation cases, and they're continuing right now. There are cases going on, and while there is a legal process going on and Republican People's Party MP Mehmet Gökdağ has explained everything in detail here, it is not possible to accept that he now holds the Republican People's Party accountable for the motion that he has submitted due to these proceedings. Mr. Mehmet Gökdağ, our Gaziantep MP, has informed the Supreme Assembly of all the irregularities that have been done there, to the very last detail of all the injustices, and, along with the victims, he has made every effort and effort that he can as a lawyer and as a member of parliament. The Republican People's Party's motion and what they're talking about will be very clear when the reports are reviewed. There's no question that our Republican People's Party MP friend has any flaws. Mr. Mehmet Gökdağ has made everything clear and clear here. The defectors are in the middle. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0144par0054	Thank you, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0147par0055	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0144par0056	Yes, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0147par0057	Mr. President, just for the record. I've already said what the deputy told me, and I said: "The statement made by the Gauzantep MP was very true." But the reason for the CHP group's motion is to correct a financial error. That's what I said. If there's such a strong responsibility, if there's such a serious rant story behind it, then how can they make a motion on such grounds? I'm criticizing the motive. That's exactly what our Gaziantep MP said. Look, he's been on trial, he's been on trial three or four times in favor of the citizen, he's responded in favor of the citizen. Now a constitutional offense is actually being committed by putting the law back on track. Because, look, this citizen has been granted the right, the court has decided on behalf of the citizen, but we're getting ahead of him with a law clause, and we're getting in the way of his retributing the law.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0144par0058	Okay, thank you. It's on the record.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0148par0059	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0144par0060	Yes, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0148par0061	Let's put it the same way: now, there's no need to explain. Normally, if these regulations were brought in by the ruling party as a normal law, they would be discussed on every matter and there would be no problem. As in their own group, the Republican People's Party has had to submit a motion on all articles concerning the 5 highly contested articles, but its results have been extremely positive for Turkey, for Şırnak, for Hakkari, for the entire Assembly. This is the spirit of compromise. We may not normally make a motion there, but we have to make a motion to discuss the matter. If they're referring to the proposal as a fictitious motion, it's our civil rights in exchange for a place where AKP's legislative logic has compressed Parliament and opposition.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0144par0062	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0148par0063	I'll take it in my hand. We'll discuss HDP's motions in the same way until morning. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0144par0065	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0149par0066	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0144par0067	Mr. Toğrul, thank you, too. You've explained as much as necessary. I don't think you have a sentence to add after that, because there's nothing you can do.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0149par0068	Mr. President, I'm going to use a sentence. In a way, our right to talk on the matter has blocked our right to speak by supporting the CHP's motion.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0144par0069	You said that. I don't know how it happened yesterday. It's closed. It's gone.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0149par0070	It's not closed yet, Mr. President. It's still on the...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0144par0071	Yesterday's incident was closed, the matter was closed.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0149par0072	So that material can be withdrawn.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0144par0073	We haven't voted on the law yet, we haven't voted on the law, but yesterday's motion is closed, gone, I mean. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions in Article 4 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the amendment to Article (2/1319) of the Law Proposal for the draft of the Law Against Justice and Development Party's Deputy Chair Mustafa Elitaş and Isparta MP Sajya Sadi Bilgic and 14 MPs to the Establishment of the Fund of Property in Turkey and to the Amendment to the Law on Add Value Tax Act (2/1319). With all due respect. Utku Çakırözer Ancient Durmaz Bkent Kuşoğlu Zechariah Haziel Musa Pine Ilhan Kesici MADDE 4- (1) Sources of Turkey's Entity Fund; A) from the privatisation Supreme Council; from the cash surplus, which has been agreed to transfer the companies in the privatisation coverage and programme to the Turkish Entity Fund, and B) Out of the cash surplus of those who are under the savings of public institutions and institutions and who have been decided by the Council of Ministers to transfer to the Turkish Entity Fund or to be run by the Company, It happens. (2) The value of real estate, real estate projects, or real estate benefits on a fixed date can be understood by the company with real estate companies on the Capital Market Board list to evaluate the quality of real estate that affects this value, market and environmental conditions, under internationally accepted value standards. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of the Law Proposition 413 be removed from the proposal text. Çağlar Demirel Osman Baydemir Selma River Suryet Taşdemir Saadet Able Behçet Yıldırım Ayhan Bilgen Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı İbrahim Ayhan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0150par0101	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0144par0102	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0151par0103	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0144par0104	Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0152par0106	Dear friends, first of all, I salute you all. Now, talks are being held over this Entity Fund. The wealth fund is essentially an attempt to increase the assets and assets in the interest of capital. This bag was in the law, you know, about trustees. The trustee incident was based on confiscating municipalities as requested, and on expanding the state's rights and authority. Another important trustee clause is to confiscate the municipalities' residences. When we look at this existing Fund of Beings, the seizure and similar legal regulations, all of them actually have the basic logic in the form of regulations that strengthen the state in public, in public, occupying more and more social spaces. So, on one hand, the state, the people and the community are facing each other, and when we present this confrontation situation, when we evaluate it, the state is getting stronger, the people and society are getting weaker. All of these are regulations that seriously affect social life that affect the peace of social life. We actually need to be at a point where if we're in favor of a democratic system, democratic politics, a democratic society, we need to be in a position to expand the fields of social life, reducing the influence of the state, reducing the powers of the state. The AKP has been following a policy that has strengthened the state, weakened society, including the Entity Fund, with the regulations it has already made. The reason for all this is that, as with the July 15 coup attempt and the operation, so does social conflict, crisis, chaos. Therefore, what needs to be done is for the state to be removed from social life and the power of the state to be weakened within social life. So the fewer governments, the more communities. The more policy and approach should be based on. So unless this is based on it, any arrangement will definitely not bring social peace, it will not contribute to social peace, it will cause more tensions, there will be more conflicts. If we're in favor of democratic politics today, if we provide social justice and equality, we have to make these monopolyal arrangements based on social division and justice, which are based on public benefits, rather than on increasing these Rant classes, capital classes, rather than on strengthening them. One of the major steps in this is to solve the gangrened Kurdish problem for years and to resolve social problems in peace, equality. Otherwise, we need to avoid the provisions that strengthen the state and make it grow by increasing an oligarchic structure within the state. So the House has to take some very serious steps at this point. Otherwise, it is not possible for us to establish social peace in Turkey, social equality and peace, justice. What is intended to be brought in today with the Entity Fund is the sharpening, deepening, and sharpening of social contradictions. So you're going to strengthen the state, you're going to claim that you're going to bring equality to the people and society, you're going to bring justice, it's a very serious contradiction, it's a very serious mistake, and you need to get rid of it as soon as possible. There is no way that peace, justice and freedom can be brought by the laws of trustees, by interfering with social life as trustees. Look, there's an approach from the kind of governmentist Leviathan (Leviathan) monster that seizes every aspect of life, including the seizure of municipalities. The AKP's power must quickly avoid these approaches, ruling and judicial approaches. Otherwise we won't be able to prevent the coups, nor will we be able to eliminate a coup d'état, a coup d'état in Turkey. Our only hope is democracy, equality and steps to bring about social justice and peace. And in that sense, I'd like to say that all parliamentary components should also be in a position and attitude towards investing in society. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0153par0112	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the amendment of Article (2/1319) to the amendment of "The Law on Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş and Isparta MP Sıyya Sadi Bilgic and 14 MPs to Turkey's Fund of Property and to the Amendment of the Law on Add Value Taxes" (2/1319). With all due respect. Moses Pine (Izmir) and his friends MADDE 4- (1) Sources of Turkey's Entity Fund; A) from the privatisation Supreme Council; from the cash surplus, which has been agreed to transfer the companies in the privatisation coverage and programme to the Turkish Entity Fund, and B) It consists of cash surpluses of those under the savings of public institutions and organisations and decided by the Council of Ministers to be transferred to the Turkish Entity Fund or to be managed by the Company. (2) The value of real estate, real estate projects, or real estate benefits on a fixed date can be understood by the company with real estate companies on the Capital Market Board list to evaluate the quality of real estate that affects this value, market and environmental conditions, under internationally accepted value standards. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0154par0124	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0153par0125	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0155par0126	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0153par0127	Mr. Old Man Durmez will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0156par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs of the Supreme Assembly, Mr. Minister; we fought in commissions on the National Entity Fund, we shared a lot of mutual views, but in the first place, when we came to the Commission, it was necessary to discuss this with all of our friends, the capital market in Turkey -- the value of this country representing its brand in the international arena -- we wished that the Central Bank would be matured after a serious discussion with the stock companies and come to the Commission, but, of course, we were really happy, but when we started to discuss the bag law, it came back. It's been a long talk. Of course, when there's a national asset fund around us, when we're being presented to us, there's not only in Turkey. It's said that the G20 countries don't have it. But in many countries, countries with the current surplus have created a precautionary fund based on their future generations, and they've made it a goal to use it internationally -- like insurance for future generations. Other than that, some countries know that wealth resources are exhausted, and they've tried a way to take the measures of the future from these days, before they run out of assets, and they're quite successful, but when countries like us, with 10,000 sheep on the plains, have to think very seriously. He needs to think that the dynamics, the assets of this country, the children of our country, the pupils of many institutions and organizations that we call our country's future, should not be held hostage as private funds for this purpose. We don't have friends who don't know we're not part of those groups in either of those two countries. But, of course, in 14 years, we've produced things, too, in this country. What did we produce? Friends, we've produced nearly 6 million unemployed young people, as well as a country that has been paralyzed, and we've seen that in this country, with the power of a ruling party for the fourth term, we've seen that peace, brotherhood, the traditional dynamics of the state break down, and everyone quickly takes advantage of the state in order to take control, rip off its place and guarantee its future. We've seen a lot of them want to admit that they've been deceived, deceived, deceived by the hands of those who run the state, and they want to be lawful. Dear friends, let such a fund be established in our country, of course, but everyone wants to be audited by the Supreme Assembly, who is the representative of this country's fund, which I protect from my national future, without being overlooked from universal values such as our Constitution, transparency, fitness, control, and in this sense, unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party has missed this fund from the controls. The Court of Ministers shall receive more and more under the saving of public institutions and institutions, the authority to transfer resources and assets to Turkey's Property Fund, and its authority to be used by the Turkish Investment Fund Anonymous. Friends, any unsupervised authority is bound to bring new errors with it. In this sense, we have no objection to the establishment of this fund, but it does not reassure us as if it were a fund that was born dead, that it was removed from control, that it went against the Constitution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] When you heed our warnings, I believe that this fund will benefit this country in the future, perhaps when our national income is being used efficiently. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0157par0139	Thank you, Mr. Durmez. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion in Article 5 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 5 of the Law Proposal No. 413 be removed from the proposal text. Çağlar Demirel Osman Baydemir Selma River Suryet Taşdemir Behçet Yıldırım Saadet Capable Ayhan Bilgen Mahmoud Celadet Besime Konca Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0158par0152	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0157par0153	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0159par0154	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0157par0155	Mr. Besime Konca will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Konca.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0160par0158	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Now, there's a sentence in Turkey that has been accepted by both the rulers and the rulers over the years -- perhaps very rude -- that, you know, the state's property is the sea, the idiot who doesn't eat. This has been very legitimized in Turkey. But I've been in power for the past four years, and I've been moving this country to good places. During the AKP government, which said, "The theft, corruption, theft started being questioned a little bit in the community, and it started to get a little public exposure. Now, these laws are to establish the legal structure of this and legitimize it this time. This is the Entity Fund Bill, the bill of corruption, the bank of robbery, and the funds for building an infrastructure, building a legal structure. Now, again, I'm going to give you an example of history, so in all of these issues, not just for the Entity Fund. In these laws, which will be passed in Article 50, confiscation of immovable assets within Article 23... here we are discussing, Şırnak, Haqari has not been removed from the province, the trustee has not been appointed, but other regulations that have already failed them are subsidiaries that will practice them, and they will be practicalized. There is no such thing as a democratic arrangement, social consensus, international universal law, but we feel that these laws have been waived. In history, the laws of Hammurabi were mentioned in the 1760 B.C.E. So, today, the AKP's laws are laws that do not really search the laws of Hammurabi, and they apply them by updating them a little bit today, by modernizing them a little bit. So there are mini-constitutional debates, perception operations are being created, the study of the constitution will be done. It is said that there is no such thing. So the laws adopted are the AKP laws, or the President's laws put in front of us, Mr. President Erdogan. These are laws that do not include social understanding, chaos, crisis, the process of coup regime, and the measures they have developed regarding the situation in the Kurdistan today. Even though we discussed all of this and said that we needed to develop the opposition strong, it didn't pan out. Now, I'd like to mention another thing: the AKP says it's been running this country for years, 14 years. But yesterday the Prime Minister had an explanation -- I don't know how much time I have left -- that is, the removal of 80,000, 20,000, the arrest of 20,000, the seizure of thousands of institutions -- tells the story that there is such a comprehensive operation, and it is said that this structure is not transparent, this structure is a secret structure. As the confessions arrive, the scope of this will grow. Mr. Ala explains today that 6,500 of the 7,000 MIT members are GERPs. 74 of the police chiefs of 81 counties are members of the district. In the military, that's the way it is, that's the way it is, that's the way it is in business, that's the way it is in different things. So, who have you been leading for 14 years? 90 percent of these forces have been managers for 14 years -- even more, if we count other governments -- what have you managed, where have you moved Turkey, what have you carried on, what will we become one, big, alive?" For years you have deceived the people; one state, one nation, one flag." You tried to create a sense of society and create a slogan? You're clearing the bottom today, where the state isn't a state, with the way it's publicized, with the way it's been privatized, with the way it's been done, and who are you still going to enforce these laws on today, and you don't know who you're going to trust. You're still saying that the CIA has more information than we have. You're arguing that this has to go on. This community, which of these people -- these differences -- can rely on your understanding, which mentality -- can say that these laws are democratic, that these laws will democratize society, that they will guarantee its economy, its culture, its art, its geography, its way of life? All of this, as we say, as the laws of Hammurabi have been passed as laws of slavery and are still up-to-date today, the laws that you have passed today are the laws of the AKP, and the laws that seek the laws of Hammurabi. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit07spe0161par0165	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0161par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 413. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers Articles 6 through 13. Mr Mehmet Günal will speak on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on the second chapter. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0162par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, that's what happens when it's after dinner, and the friends who get in the way miss the opportunity to listen. This is an asset company and its Fund -- from the top, our friends, as you know -- which is a law that was pulled out of the bag. In particular, we need to first state that such laws as these are made as a separate code law are both a result of the importance of that institution and of the further arrangements. So we made that suggestion to our friends in this context, and you know that this came along with the law, which, in fact, was called the Existential Fund, which turned into a regular bag of law and then changed its name. Sure, why are we saying this? We say it because of the seriousness of law enforcement. Dear friends, now that we've hit the punch line, how many volumes should we write, do another bag of law books? Our friends agree, but unfortunately it's become a very bad habit. The harm is this: In normal circumstances, if we look at the Civil Code, the Law of Compromising, Law No. 5018, there is a process of making laws. For him, it is necessary to have the necessary work done in all legislations, the analysis of the impact, and to be presented in addition to the views of the relevant institutions, the Undersecretary of the Treasury and the former Department of State Planning, now, the Ministry of Development, but there are issues in the Commission that we ask, let alone add opinions, and the representatives of these institutions don't even know about content. Why can't it work? There's a lot of last-minute additions to this bag of laws because it didn't go through the process. At that moment, even our friends who brought it in don't know exactly what it is because someone is preparing it and giving it to them. I mean, we don't blame anyone, but our friends who put their name on the motion don't know the background. The example, Mr. Special, when the motion came in on the other matter, immediately looked, saying, "We don't quite understand this, what is here?" You're living it here in one, we're living it there, tens of them, one of them keeps coming and going.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0163par0013	May God make it easy.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0162par0014	Our friends are here, we're negotiating four or five of the amendments. So to your appreciation for what this means... look, we're changing the motion, we're warning, something's going on. We've made a mistake in the proposal. Such important issues, such as the Turkish Entity Fund, the high expectation of finding resources, need to be done in a very different way when setting up an organization that can also address the country's resource problem, which is said to evaluate its assets. Thank you, partly, by taking advantage of the climate of this July 15th, they took some of what we said into consideration in this law, and we separated it. We've had a chance to sort out some of the parts of it that are uncomfortable, but that's not always the case. So, in terms of law-making techniques, they need to be corrected. For example, in these, our friends have arrived, Mr. Master has just expressed these three laws in a row, both within what you call the peace of existence, then in the bag that we've been seeing for a few days, and here -- some of which have been removed, some of which are still going on. They also say that Turkey should be looking for resources from its current predicament, and some external studies. But we'll go through the process of making a healthy law to make it happen, and we'll finish what's missing. We also told our friends that if there was an institution that had been rushed out of such an extraordinary period, it would be injured. Why? So I asked you very simply -- all the friends here, we have friends from the finance department, we have bureaucrats -- as a company, you think you're going to take out bonds or stocks as an institution, when are you going to do it? When the market is more stable, it's a time when customers can make healthy decisions, and you think about exports as successful. So, in the same way, we're setting up an institution here that is expected to contribute very important to Turkey and will also be funded by international markets, not in such an extraordinary environment, but in a healthier way, let's turn it off, let's open it, let's get back to normalisation. Let's set this institution up. We told our friends, but they're in a hurry, they're still missing. Although we may try to solve some of the things related to control, such as independent control, external control, we do have a number of concerns about the content and not being put under the Court's supervision. Most importantly, while this process is being done, let's do some things. So that's what the asset fund is about, and that's what we talked about yesterday, and that's what the privatization clause is about. So all of this has to come back with an overhaul. When that happens, there are differences within the Council of Ministers. In terms of what's coming, such as a bill, each of the relevant institutions can think differently. If those processes were functioning in a healthy manner from the start, most of those problems would have already been cleared up before they came to the Commission. So it's not right to bring these laws in this way when these studies are being done. Each one of them has to have this impact analysis in its addition. On the one hand, we need to take structural measures. There's no way we can do the current and resource problem that we've been saying over and over and over again by setting up an asset fund and putting some assets here, reassessing them and raising their balance sheet values. We made it very clear, and our other friends told me that if there really is a purpose here to create a national fund, it should be much healthier. There's no way we can convince international investors, international investors, funds by just putting certain assets in and opening the way for these real estate with some work, with some development work. They're as analytical as we are, they're doing evaluations, they're going to look at real values of what we're going to put in here, they're going to look at it for days, they're going to invest in it, if that's the point. But, now, we're having problems starting with the foundation of the fund. Sir, there is one in the world. They call it. The funds we're looking at in the world, the oil, the extra money, the mine, there's something, there's a savings to the future, there's an asset.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0164par0018	Or there's a commodity.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0162par0019	He wants to evaluate any of these assets to the future, but he wants to evaluate something he has. We say that we have certain assets, we have land, we have companies. You already supply companies in stock markets; companies can produce bonds, we can evaluate those companies' shares in national markets or international markets. The asset fund is one thing, and it's unpredictable. Let's set up subfunds, these are good goals, but in this way, it's like a reaction to an extraordinary period of... Sir, we've done it before. They call it. You were doing it earlier, so why is it last week? Why did he go into this bag? Why didn't he come as a separate law? Why don't you sit down and... Look, we've been able to fix it to a certain degree. Why? And that's when they came up with what we thought during the debate. So if we can make it healthier in a wider time, we have a better chance of achieving goals. Our goal here is not to criticize the purpose of this fund, or to say it's all wrong, but it may be for good purposes, but if we go the wrong way, if we set it up the wrong way, it'll be dead. So we're recommending a healthy law-making process so he doesn't have to be born dead. I'm still on the same page. Instead of taking it out this way, instead of working on the whole, the original contract, and including other elements, we're thinking more clearly, a transparent, open, manageable fund, and we're thinking that instead of bragging about it, it should become a national fund of Turkey. I'm saying that as the National Movement Party, we're ready to contribute constructively to this, as with all other economic, social issues. But at least in this way, with a serious study, if that's the way it's going to be accepted, I think there should be some consideration in his original contract. I thank you again, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0165par0026	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Bulent Kuşoglu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0166par0030	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the second chapter of Law Proposal 413. My dear friends, the matter is more or less understood. He's been in the press a lot. States are institutions that exist for citizens, you know, for the welfare of their citizens, for their safety, and for that they build an economic, financial mechanism. In a very rude way, we can say that the state is serving them again in the classical way, with taxes from its citizens. How much is Turkey's budget? Let me remind you: we have a budget of close to $200 billion in 2016, close to $200 billion. Most of this budget, however, goes to staff expenses, current expenses. Only one tenth of the $200 billion budget goes to investments. So the public can't invest as much as they need to, so it's stressful. When we can't make these investments out of the budget, we go into the search for new methods, like in other countries -- the do-and-do-run is one of them. Yesterday, we discussed a clause within the law within the scope of public-private cooperation. In different ways, countries are trying to borrow by non-budget means, and Turkey is doing one within the scope of public-private co-operation, and Turkey currently owes billions of dollars outside the budget. Other than that, it's a similar method. And these national assets are a different way of putting it. In fact, asset funds -- as my other friends described -- apply to overpaying, overpaid countries. In countries with cari deficits, there's not much meaning, there's not much profit, but in order to create stability, such funds are being established to protect the country from fluctuations in developing countries like us. In Brazil, Argentina, there are small-scale funds because they require debt again. But I want to stay on top of something. You know this National Entity Fund came to us from the presidency, from the palace. In the palace, we also know that Professor Cemil Erkum, the Chief Minister of Economics, had thoughts on these matters. Now, I'd like to share with you some of his writings about this matter, about the way he looks at it. It says that those on the left side of the political spectrum, for example, oppose the CHP Entity Fund, but on the same grounds, the right liberal side opposes this initiative. In fact, I know that there are some in the ruling party who have welcomed this step with surprise. Now, when this came, this was very different from the text that came when the National Entity Fund or the Turkish Entity Fund came in. It was a text that we should all object to, and many of us, including those at the ruling party -- of course, the opposition in the first place -- and we put it in its present state, and there were huge changes. Mr. Secretary, we've made some very important changes in the text here. This text was made more practical, especially by the efforts of the opposition. We need to see this once no one denies it. Otherwise, it was a text that would bring great hardship if it came out in its current form, a text that would hardly be implemented, a text that would bring much trouble for the state, for the country, believe me. Mr. Ercom, the court, has such an opinion, and since I find it interesting, I'd like to share it with you again. In its writing this week, it says that countries such as Turkey -- developing countries -- have been the victims of this rapid and warped financialisation. Because the trillions of dollars in funding pools have broken the balance of debt-incomes in developing countries for the advantage of currency and interest, and in these countries the series of financial debt crises has followed each other. This robbery was accompanied by privatisation practices that turned into looting in developing countries, and it also criticises privatisation practices. I'm surprised by that, so it's coming to this, with a similar criticism of the privatisation practices in Turkey. In fact, privatisation has been discussed as a direct sale of assets and many developing countries in this way have exported resources. It emphasizes that the application of Turkey is wrong to implement privatisation. Thus, developing countries, which have been established, have been transformed into import economies that are constantly producing loans, producing foreign financial attacks, which are open to high interest cycles. What kind of understanding do you have if we make this criticism? This left understanding does not apply in this world today. We are subjected to criticisms like that. As debt and investment deficits grow in countries such as Turkey, the sizes of funds have increased geometrically in the centers that control these assets' funds -- in the more expensive centers. On the other hand, money and capital markets have not been deepened in open countries. So the national assets of these countries were not sold as blocks and privatized in the form of securities. These are very specific confessions that I'm very interested in regarding the government's economic policies. But, in the end, when we explain this fund -- because we also know that the text is imposed there -- this is not a classic stabilisation fund or savings fund. ▪ It is not a stability or a classic savings fund. • What is it? ▪ This is a new step that contains both but exceeds them. Turkey will invest its national resources, its savings, along with the Entity Fund, to give those resources to its owner, the nation. This is a nationalization. It's not privatisation. It says that privatisation is a revolution of nationalization by knocking down the floor again and ultimately securing the assets of Turkey. I'm surprised at all of this. So, the fact that the government, the palace, the ministries within the government, the economic institutions don't work in harmony with each other, that it's not coordinated is one of the things that we're most interested in. In this regard, we knew that both in our private talks and in our talks on the Turkish Entity Fund, during our talks on the Plan and Budget Commission, the economic units had brought this to each other unaware, uncoordinated -- of course, we knew it wasn't co-ordinating -- but we were really amazed that they were in such an extreme way, beyond what we knew. So there is a very important problem among economic units within the government. Anyway, as I just said, this text changes almost 180 degrees, and that's what the conflict between the ministries shows, and it clearly tells us. My dear friends, the political uncertainty that we have now, of course, forces us to do all this. On the one hand, we're trying to make laws here with good intentions, but actually Turkey is run by the State of Emergency. The State of Emergency, when needed, seeks to pass similar laws, creating difficulties, thus increasing political uncertainty. It's hard to invest in a country where political uncertainty is increasing, where no one can see where it's going. With such political uncertainty in Turkey, it is impossible to expect anyone to come and invest under such conditions when economic management is being coordinated so badly. I feel sorry for that. So first of all, yes, Turkey has a fund, and nobody's against it; it has a working fund, it has a business fund, we're not against it, but you don't fund it with law enforcement. So let's make a law that makes atomic bombs, let's say that Turkey has built an atomic bomb, solved the energy problem, would that be all right? I'm afraid not. So that's that, because Turkey has established a fund -- very large -- around 10 trillion dollars in the world, around 8 to 12 trillion dollars... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... Is it going to be very effective in this field of funds? In a moment, I'll be more specific in my talks on matter. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0167par0043	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mr Ahmet Yıldırım will speak. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0168par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the second chapter on behalf of my party group regarding the establishment of the Entity Fund. I salute the entire General Assembly. First of all, I'd like to start by repeating some of the concerns I've expressed when the bill is being discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission. The first issue is that the foundation of a fund, an institution, a public existence, which will be established from our point of view, must be well expressed. In this sense, we start with the question of why this fund is needed and why this arrangement is being established. On this basis, in particular the basis of the law, the reason why this fund was established was passed by the weak, vague, round phrases as far as it could take. According to this, one of the main reasons for the lack of satisfactory information is the fact that Turkey is the only country in the world that does not have an asset fund, especially the members mentioned in the Plan and Budget Commission on behalf of the ruling party. And here we are, before we do our reviews on this, I wish we could start with something far more important than what exists in the G20 countries that we don't have. If we can compare our democracy with the G20 countries, our social peace with the G20 countries, our freedoms, whether the laborer's sweat is paid for by a fair tax system, and if we can start here, we'll be doing a better job than that. In particular, some of the countries mentioned in the field of motive are mentioned. In the Gulf countries, there was a fund of assets; in Russia, in China, and in many countries. Yes, there is, but when there's a hedge fund in these countries, two pens that are the basis for the creation of this asset fund are very, very important. The first is oil revenues, and the second is more than just trade. Yeah, well, I'll tell you from my professional and major identity that our country is not in the position of a country that can make a profit from energy sources. Only 11 to 12 per cent of the oil he has produced meets the country's needs, while the remaining 88-89 per cent are in a position to meet the oil from abroad. Is it possible, then, to provide an increase in energy resources and feed the Entity Fund? It's not. Second: Let's express a trade feature that has been increasing over the years and during this political period of power. We're not a country that gives too much in domestic and foreign trade; we're an open country in foreign trade; we're a country that has more imports than exports all the time. And since there's no pen from here that we can transfer to this fund, as I'm about to sort out, in fact, there are some transfers from some of the funds, not to strengthen the laborer's sweat, his peaceful environment in his working life. So, in itself, the pens expressed as the source of this Entity Fund are a serious problem. Now, valued lawmakers, look, developed countries in G20, countries in G20, are doing a job here that will especially relax public life by exposing a wealth that exists, especially when creating assets. And we have an approach that, in fact, undermines justice in income, through the transfer of public beings that may have been exposed throughout the history of the republic for 90 years. We don't know if there's a future here that will comfort public life, economic life, but we're moving these 79 million people and those who have lived in this country into this place, their sweat, their labor, their wealth, and we're traveling with an unknown fund. The state misses its duty to raise the welfare level of the citizen, acting with the understanding of tightening the citizen as much as possible. In the last eight or nine months, especially when we look at the provisions that concern economic life in this country, most of them are legal regulations that serve to increase the happiness of the happy minority, and try to increase the unhappiness of the unhappy majority. In particular, in the past eight, nine months, the Plan and Budget Commission has served to increase the happiness of the few, most of the provisions that have been passed by the bag of laws that have come to the Assembly's General Assembly. Now, think about it, how does a citizen develop a sense of rights in this country? How can we create a condition in democratic life that can increase the citizens' action, activity and struggle? In particular, we're trying to keep our citizens out of the right-seeking process by lending them to the public, constantly in debt to them. It's like, you know, people buy cars, but it's not their car, it's the bank's, it's a loan. People buy houses, but they owe it to the bank, the house and the car are pawned. People are getting sick, they're in a bad condition, especially in response to astronomical figures in private health institutions, all banks are giving health loans. He even mortgages the cure for his illness, mortgages his future labor. People want to study on good terms, they have education loans. He'll have to go to school for three years, maybe six years to go to school. His school, health, home, car, training equipment, computers are borrowed. It is not possible for us to reveal a high social profile of the right-seeking consciousness of the people who have been brought into this system. Now, with movement from here, well, I've just tried to express the source of this Entity Fund by comparing it to the G20 countries, what is the source of the Entity Fund that is currently being established in our country? The worker's sweat will be paid for by the unemployment fund, which has been piling up for years. Ah, even though this unemployment fund is a language, it could explain the gadri he had been through during the AKP's reign. The unemployment fund has been used everywhere but to help the unemployed. Where was it used? It was used in the Gap. Where was it used? The short work grant was used for spending. Where was it used? The fee was used in the Guarantee Fund. Where was it used? It was used in course expenses. Yeah, was the unemployment fund used for those who were unemployed? Used. But it was used at less than all of them. How much money has been saved so far, as of July 31st, 2016? 98.3 billion liras. Only 11 billion liras, such as 12 per cent, were spent in line with the goal and philosophy of this unemployment fund. Other than unemployment, which is used for anything but the spirit and philosophy of the organization, used for jobs that relax the capital. Postpartum, part-time, law is passed for female laborers, but we pay the unemployment fund to the employer, and we still try to comfort the employer. Again, 93 per cent of the money saved in the unemployment fund is in the treasury bonds. Only 6.2 billion, or 6.5 per cent, are kept in bank accounts. Where he's being held is a problem, the way he spends is a problem. And what was specifically requested by November of last year, November of 2015? 6 million, 833,000 people wanted to benefit from the unemployment fund by meeting its requirements. How much did he take advantage of? Only 4.5 million. 2.3 million of our unemployed couldn't take advantage of their conditions. The most important problem with this Entity Fund was that, despite opposition from all opposition parties, an inspection was brought in. What is it, fellas? Think about it, it's going to have an asset fund and a company that will be appointed by the president of the company, its members, its CEO, the Prime Minister. The Court will not make judgment over the opposition's insistence. The Court was already an accountant, and even he will not supervise. Who's gonna do it? He will appoint the Prime Minister to supervise him. What kind of freak would that be? I'm going to supervise my company again, I'm going to bring it to the House, I'm going to present it to the House, and then I'm going to call it my trial! It may not be called "experiment," but it may be a cover for the illegality that exists. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0169par0060	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On behalf of him, Mr. Lale Karbük will speak for him.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0170par0063	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in the second chapter of Law Proposal 413. I salute the Veteran Assembly. Yeah, we can't grow on production. Unfortunately, that's a classic sentence, but that's the result. And it's not healthy for us to grow up because we can't grow up based on production. How do we grow up? We're growing up with consumption. How do we grow up? We're growing up on real estate. And how do we grow? We're growing up with public investments. We're targeting mega projects, we want to make big public investments, but we're short on savings, but we're short on funding, but we have an external deficit. When other countries want to do projects like this, they want to build assets like this, but we're different from them. And before we get there, let me just say, yes, Turkey wants to start a hedge fund, and the goal is to raise $200 billion in savings here. The goal is to maintain a stable growth, to develop with investments. The point is good. The proposal, unfortunately, is not the same as the format in other countries. Let's look at world examples, what are the world examples like, counselors? Look, in world examples, the funding comes from solid resources, which they usually get from underground sources, and they finance these funds with continuous revenues. And then, of course, there's no funding deficits like ours, there's more funds, the payments don't balance out, but the opposite is too much. Let's look at the numbers. Now, studies show that in 14 countries, seven of the resources are derived from oil revenues, others from diamonds and mines, and the funds are funded by this, not by pawning the future, but by selling assets. So, what do we think of these things? We're trying to pawn our future, we're trying to fund this place by selling assets because we're thinking about mega projects, but it's not a healthy structure. On the other hand, we're building a second treasure next to the treasure, creating another budget next to the budget. As we try to get rid of the word parallel, we actually take parallel positions. And let's not forget, these bonds are the funds that are going to come out, but this bond export shouldn't bring up unmanaged bonds because there are examples of this in history and we've seen the negative consequences, Congressmans. On the other hand, we have the fact that during the AKP, we know that loans have endured three hundred percent, and let's not forget that because there's an external deficit growth going on, which is naturally due to external debt. Look, Turkey's total foreign debt as of the first quarter of 2016 is $411.5 billion, MPs. So, when the AKP came to power -- let's look at the 2003 data -- what was it? It was 124 billion dollars. These are your data again. So it's 3.3 times that. Every child born -- please pay attention to this figure -- is born with $5,137 in debt. That's our reality, I'm afraid. So, instead of making solutions and making new reforms while there are these numbers, we're bringing in a lot of ideas, a lot of proposals. Look, there were so many funny structures when the motion came to the Commission, there were so many funny phrases that I still find them very wrong and unhealthy. This company will be registered on the trading record, but the institutions are not subject to taxes. He can export bonds, repo and reverse repo, but he's not subject to the SPK. The employee will employ it, but it's not subject to officer's law. He's going to tender, not under contract. It is in Article 8; it is not subject to 8 laws and laws. Now, Councilors, the bill and the proposal that was brought in in a state of public opinion can never be transformed into a healthy source of funding and a foundation that will be created. This is the logic of pawning Turkey's future, future revenues, and with that logic, it is never possible to establish a right fund. Turkey is not to be held hostage by the future. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0171par0074	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. There are no other speakers on behalf of himself. No questions, no answers. So the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions in Article 6 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We call the amendment to the 6th amendment of the 6th Amendment clause to the Constitutional Amendment of the Law Against the Law Against Turkey's Value Tax Act (2/1319) with the establishment of Justice and Development Party Deputy Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş and Isparta MP Sıyya Sadi Bilgic and 14 MPs. With all due respect. Utku Çakırözer Ancient Durmaz Bkent Kuşoğlu Moses Pine Ilhan Keskin Zechariah Haziel MADDE 6- (1) is subject to independent control of subsidiaries within the Company, other companies established by the Company, Turkey's Entity Fund and Turkey's Entity Fund. The company obeys institutional management regulations under the Capital Market Act. (2) Other companies to be established by the Company, the Turkish asset fund and the Turkish asset fund are audited by independent control standards by at least three central audit officers who are experts in the fields of capital markets, finance, finance, finance, banking, development, and will be assigned by the prime minister through the annual financial tables of independent control of the sub-funds under independent control. The report will be submitted to the Council of Ministers by the end of June each year as a result of the inspection. (3) Other companies to be established by the Company, Turkey's Entity Fund and the Turkish Entity Fund will also be audited by audit reports from the previous year's activities and transactions of the subsidiaries, financial tables, which were drafted by the Turkish Grand National Assembly Plan and Budget Commission in October each year as part of the first and second jokes and sent by the prime minister. During this audit, the commission can benefit from central control and experts in public institutions and institutions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the 6th article of Law Proposal 413 be removed from the proposal text. Çağlar Demirel Selma River Behçet Yıldırım Ayhan Bilgen Osman Baydemir Surah Taşdemir Mahmoud Celeadet Bagpipe Batman Bitlis of Saadet Capable Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0172par0098	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0171par0099	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0173par0100	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0171par0101	Adıyaman MP Behçet Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0174par0104	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. President, Mr. Court, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Last week, our Parliament Speaker, Ismail Hero Adıyaman, visited Adıyaman for two days, and on Monday we returned from Adıyaman. And Adıyaman was well received, and said that he liked Adıyaman, and returned with good impressions. Among those who sent him off were the current AKP Mayor, the current AKP Mayor, the state protocol, no one said Adıyaman was dehydrated. And that's what I'm going to have to say from this council bench, because our people are really suffering about it, and we get dozens of calls every day. Adıyaman is literally parched. The four sides of Adıyaman are surrounded by water. We've been talking about watery agriculture recently, but now there's no water, no water, no water, no water, no water, no water, no water, no agriculture. Sadly, today I will speak of a thirsty man in Adıyaman. For more than a month now, Adıyaman has had water shortages that have been constantly and very long hours, and the people are unable to find water to drink. I warn the authorities from here, Mr. Veysel Eroglu, the Minister of Forest and Water Affairs, who claims to be an honorary citizen of Adıyaman. Until yesterday, last week and last month, the Adıyamans, who were always on a democracy watch, are unfortunately keeping a water watch today. They're collecting water from mosques to collect water, and as if it wasn't enough, we have an understanding of a city that doesn't even know how to give water to the city. Again, as a physician, I warn you that if the water shortages are not resolved soon, we will face serious health problems in Adıyaman. People say our home, our surroundings stink, our children get sick. I'm afraid we don't have the right press, so instead of the law on this stand, I had to address Adıyaman's problems. We can't express ourselves enough in the press, and there's a press that ignores us. On the night of July 15th, the media gave a positive test against the coups; the pressure which did not take its legitimacy from the public claimed democracy against the difficult mechanisms. It's a great virtue to stand up to blows. It's an admirable act. However, democracy remained in this country only on the night of July 15th, and only against the coup. Look, a country's third largest party in this House, an opposition party, has clearly been banned from broadcasting. It's not enough, the press, the media are doing a very serious auto-sensorship right now. Not enough, opposition newspapers, opposition publications are being shut down, journalists are being detained, Özgür Gündem newspaper is being shut down, journalists are being arrested, employees are being taken into custody. The pressure on journalists is well-established and internalized in the media. Freedom of the press is freedom to publish what the rulers don't like. The media has an important function in the emergence of facts. A press that turns its back on the truth is also the press that basically turns its back on democracy to a free society. The mainstream media, which submits to these oppressive practices, who are left behind, who turn a blind eye or support them, must know that when the day of these oppressive mechanisms comes, they will shoot themselves, too. Your presence is a debt not against central decisions, censorship, but against all kinds of pressure mechanisms, such as coups. You can't cover the facts by closing the Özgür Gündem newspaper. We'll be the news of freedom again and we'll be the hope of freedom again. We worked until yesterday morning, and there was a positive vibe, and I wish for it to continue. There were positive developments in Şırnak and Hakkari, both in the matter of trustees. It was incomplete, but I hope this continues. There is nothing wrong with Turkey, which the Assembly cannot solve if we spend them in a positive mood in parliament. However, these came without any commissions, especially when there were dozens of clauses in the bill yesterday concerning health and other commissions. This practice is antidemocratic, starting with the construction of the law and preventing the law from being debated enough. So the point is, the first button of the shirt is wrong, and the others go wrong. On the 26th of this month, the third bridge will be opened. I wish he'd changed his name and opened it up. Mr. Secretary has invited us. It's a big project, but its name doesn't please the public. Let's hope his name gets changed. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0175par0115	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We would like to request and propose the following amendment of Article 6 of the Law Against the Co-existence Tax Act (2/1319) of Justice and Development Party Deputy Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş and Isparta MP Sajya Sadi Bilgic and 14 MPs to the establishment of the Turkish Fund for Property and the amendment to the Law on Adding Value Tax. Bulent Kuşoglu (Ankara) and his friends MADDE 6- (1) is subject to independent control of subsidiaries within the Company, other companies established by the Company, Turkey's Entity Fund and Turkey's Entity Fund. The company obeys institutional management regulations under the Capital Market Act. (2) Other companies to be established by the Company, the Turkish asset fund and the Turkish asset fund are audited by independent control standards by at least three central audit officers who are experts in the fields of capital markets, finance, finance, finance, banking, development, and will be assigned by the prime minister through the annual financial tables of independent control of the sub-funds under independent control. The report will be submitted to the Council of Ministers by the end of June each year as a result of the inspection. (3) Other companies, established by the Company, are also audited by the Turkish Entity Fund and the Turkish Entity Fund, including audit reports from the previous year's operations and transactions of the sub-funds, financial tables, which were drafted by the Turkish Grand National Assembly Plan and Budget Commission in October each year as part of the first and second jokes and sent by the Prime Ministerate. During this audit, the commission can benefit from central control and experts in public institutions and institutions. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0176par0125	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0175par0126	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0177par0127	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0175par0128	Ankara MP Blunt Kuşoglu will speak on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0178par0131	Thank you. My dear friends, today is the last day of the House before its vacation. I know we're all tired. We worked until yesterday morning. It's been a busy week. But this Turkish Entity Fund is also very important. There's a lot of money here, given that the unemployment fund is only 98 billion dollars, and the other resources, and that they might be part of the fund. So, there's a plague on all of us, we have to make this law right, we have to be more careful. So I'm going to take your patience a little longer. My dear friends, this control clause came in this way, the 6th article: The financial tables of the company and the Turkish asset fund are not subject to the Court's Law; they are subject only to independent control. And then we worked on it, and we made it what it is, but it's not enough. It needs to be edited the way it's just been read, replaced, but we've made it far, far more advanced than it already is. My dear friends -- I'm also a supervisor -- independent control is made for private sectors, corporate partners. In order to protect the rights of company partners or outsiders, a report is issued at certain times, all brought to attention. This is organised by the Capital Market (SPK). So it's not an informational audit of the company's activities about the state of a real public company. In order to protect the rights of the shareholders of the company, how much profit has been distributed, is it distributed, is it legal, is it legal, is it all in independent control? But it's going to be a huge, huge government organization, so it's predicted, so you need to have control. Now, if you had a company, would you like it not to be audited? Here, you're going to have a big corporate company that's going to run billions, and no one wants to be audited. But, unfortunately, the way it came to us, we were asked not to be tested. There's no way to figure that out. It's going to be a public company, it's going to be public funds, it's going to be billions, you're not going to want to be audited; it's not going to happen. A friend of mine -- I've also got a CPA -- he wanted to leave the company for his kids when he was a certain age. I said, "check it out." I said, "Yeah, I'll do it." He said, "Blah, blah, blah, blah," but he didn't check it out. They took the kids, and they seemed pretty successful -- except for this place I was talking about -- four or five years later, it turns out that the kids mortgaged a lot of things and finished the company, and then they had to go bankrupt. Their father didn't supervise any of them. He never reviewed what was done, never checked it, or even looked at the audit reports that needed to be done. It's over. They're bankrupt now. Control is a very important event, an event that should never be neglected. We need to care about that, too, in a big company like this. I mean, if it's an investment, it's just the rest of it. We shouldn't be understanding anything like that. I'll tell you one more thing: If you look at the last sentence of Article 6 of Article (1) of Article 6 in its current form, it says: "The company obeys institutional management regulations under the Capital Market Act. Look, it obeys the SPK regulations. It says here - Mr. Minister, you should also be careful" but it does not apply to the secondary legislation under the SPK Law (the 5) section of Article 5). he says. On the one hand, we call it warning. Somewhere, it doesn't fit. It's an application that's going to cause trouble. These, of course, came in a hurry, so it went unnoticed in the Commission, and it needs to be corrected, and the audit needs to be done literally. I'll be back in a moment about a substance. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0179par0141	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion in Article 7 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 7 of the Law Proposal 413 be removed from the proposal text. Çağlar Demirel Osman Baydemir Selma River Behçet Yıldırım Filz Kerestecioğlu Demir Diriyet Taşdemir Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0180par0154	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0179par0155	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0181par0156	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0179par0157	İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0182par0160	Mr. President, I'd like to start by saying that I strongly condemn the arrest of author Aslı Erdogan. I won't talk about your laws. I say your laws because you will go down in history with the laws against the labor, nature, human rights and freedoms you've brought during this historic period, and we won't. It's against law enforcement, it's against political morality, and its content has nothing to do with the fact that we're living now, so it's the work of the House. There's been a coup attempt, and the Impact Research Commission has been established, gathering, and how we've come to this day, what we should do next, is talk about it? No. With all these human rights violations, does the Human Rights Commission meet despite the request of a member of a third? No. Compromise was set up by 2 commissions, and 2 was the Commission for Investigating and Construction on Child Instruction. Does this Commission work? Yes, we worked hard, visited two exemplary places, listened to dozens of experts, and then went to Karaman with insistence. We called it Nizip, we called it Islam, we decided to visit the camps, we couldn't get into those camps, we made reports to ourselves, and they weren't accepted. So listen, friends, today the nine-month-old girl who was taken to the hospital was raped by her mother, the family who fled the civil war in Syria and settled in the district of Israel and worked as an agricultural worker. We can't even protect the kids. Many of the things that have been done in this House are done only by the direction of one superior mind, by how it works, and by doing everything else like that; there is no real thing that we do, no research, no prevention, no obstruction. In response to the Swedish Foreign Minister who reacted to it in order to protect the children, the decree that sexual acts against every child who has not turned 15 years of age will be annulled, and the Swedish writings of Ataturk Airport are being hung. How could something like this happen at an international airport? The war, the coup, the State of Emergency, the pressure creates a cycle of violence. Almost anything that moves, we're surrounded by male violence that rapes children, even animals. Their shapes are getting more violent. Last week, a trans woman was burned by Hande Destiny, a month ago in Eskişehir, by drowning a young woman, and many others. It's not enough, it's killing nature; it's not enough, it's killing trees; it's not enough, it's killing workers in business killings. We've left behind a year of unpredictable explosions, and Turkey's history has never seen such violence before, my friends. It creates violence, and we continue to make laws in this spiral, as if nothing had happened, to talk about the assets-fund laws, to think about how we could invest more capital, to think about how we could run the government as a company. We have to stop this war and this violent spiral that spreads throughout every area, and there's no other alternative, there's no way. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0183par0168	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 8 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose the release of Article 8 of Article 5 of Article 8 of the Law Against the Amendment to the Law on Value Tax Act (2/1319) with the establishment of the 413 rankings of Justice and Development Party Vice President Mustafa Elitaş and Isparta MP Sajya Sadi Bilc and 14 MPs. Utku Çakırözer Ancient Durmaz Bkent Kuşoğlu Zechariah Haziel İlhan Kesici Musa Pine Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Law Proposal 413 be removed from the proposal text. Çağlar Demirel Osman Baydemir Selma River Suryet Taşdemir Saadet Able Behçet Yıldırım Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0184par0188	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0183par0189	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0185par0190	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0183par0191	Mr. Abdullah Zeydan will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Zeydan.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0186par0194	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Yesterday, the clause concerning the move of the cities of Hakkari and Şırnak province was withdrawn with the joint motion of the four parties. We thank four of our political parties for this behavior. In addition to the material gains of Hakkari (Hakkari), most importantly, for many years he had been the center of governance in his nearby geography, it was important to preserve and preserve his long history, his culture, and to have his spirituality together in this sense. Honourable lawmakers have said for many years that both Mr. President and Prime Minister, again and again, the province must be built. Yesterday, Mr. Özhaseki, who was on his Twitter account, wrote: "We are in the city of Sustahova, where we are to study today." Before the bill was discussed, we have repeatedly expressed our views that Hakkari and Şırnak are to remain in the province of their previous articles, and that Yüksekova and Cizre should also be made a province. In the same way, we have expressed our desire and our views on the district of Derecik. We hope that this common attitude will be revealed for our people, the people of Turkey and Cizre and the people living in Derecik district, who are hopeful of the common stance of the four parties in order to protect the status of Hakkari and Şırnak provinces. It would be in the best interest of the whole country to continue this joint attitude to address the immediate problems of our society. What our people expect from all of us is to carry out our responsibility to history and to our people with an equalist, liberal, pluralist, democratic constitution that includes all of us in the spirit of the 1921 Constitution. Our wish is that this will happen. With these feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0187par0202	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose the release of Article 8 of Article 5 of Article 8 of the Law Against the Amendment to the Law on Value Tax Act (2/1319) with the establishment of the 413 rankings of Justice and Development Party Vice President Mustafa Elitaş and Isparta MP Sajya Sadi Bilc and 14 MPs. With all due respect. Bulent Kuşoglu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0188par0210	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0187par0211	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0189par0212	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0187par0213	Ankara MP Blunt Kuşoglu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0190par0216	He'll be done in two minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0191par0217	Mr. President, this is the last time. Mr. President, my dear friends, as Mr. President said, from what he said, everyone's patience has come to an end, but as I just said, it's very important. After all, there's a plague on us, and we have to fulfill this duty, this responsibility, together. That's why I've also made a commitment to this exclusion and exception clause. About three pages of exemption and exceptions, six episodes of my dear friends. Now, is it possible for a company to succeed because there are too many exemptions and exceptions? What company makes successful investments because it has too many exemptions and exceptions? So, as I just said in the audit clause, if it's about investing in the matter, the rest of it is a lot to think about. So, if you're doing something about the government, if there's a government involved, you have to follow the rules, the law, you have to do them the best you can. The government in particular needs to set an example. This fund, ultimately, will serve, work in the capital market; there are other funds that will compete with them. Therefore, having so many exemptions and exceptions does not mean that this company or these funds will succeed. He'll cause a lot of trouble, I'm sure. Now, with this, there was something else to be done, in my opinion, when I brought this fund and this company. It had to be done well, it had to be done in infrastructure, it had to be detected, and then it had to come. You build the fund, you build a fund, you build funds; well, in international markets, we bring it especially for stability, we oppose global instability. Then bring it, as there are examples in the world, as there are Chinese, Germans, Koreans. They have funds, and they have big companies, and they have companies in certain sectors that are decisive in those sectors that define certain sectors, both in terms of price and in terms of trends, which are decisive in technology. Let's start a company. Are you in? No. No, you're just bringing in a fund, you can't clearly reveal the funds, we're going to compete in global markets." he says. Mr. Secretary, this can't happen. You'll have to start those companies, too. However, along with these funds, they will fight, especially in times of crisis, without instability, if that's the point. Look, you brought his infrastructure back without working at all. In Turkey, the bank sector is now the favorite of foreigners. Look, I've taken out the numbers, and the final situation on the stock preferences made by foreigners about the stock is this: 5 billion, 977 million dollars in non-existents, they've got a nominal purchase. The market value of these is 42 billion liras, the market value of this 5.9 billion is 42 billion dollars, and these are mainly: if I hit industrial, service and financial sectors, the number value of $1 billion, $227 million, is 12 billion in the industry. They invested $844 million in the service sector, the market value is 9 billion $227 million. In the financial sector, they made an investment of 3 billion 798, with a market value of 21 billion. So half of the investments, which are 42 billion dollars in market value, are about the financial sector, about banking. Now, we're entering another field that's going to be competing with them, and we're bringing them here without doing the infrastructure work on it. With those funds, there are companies, there are private sector companies with large state-sponsored companies that are competing internationally, protecting their country's interests, and then we ignore them, and then we say, "We will save Turkey with this fund." Here, look at the goals of the fund when it comes; to ensure an additional increase in growth rates, to provide employment with investments, etcetera, and so on, and so on, and so on, Turkey is almost saved. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A study like this shouldn't have come with a fund like this. On this occasion, I'd like to pay my respects to all of you again.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0192par0225	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion in Article 9 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 9 of Law Proposal 413 be removed from the proposal text. Çağlar Demirel Selma River Behçet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Osman Baydemir Suryet Taşdemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0193par0238	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0192par0239	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0194par0240	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0192par0241	Mr. Lezgin Botan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Botan.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0195par0244	Mr. President, first of all, it is the common shame of Turkey and all of us in 2016, in the 21st century, in 2016 that Aslı Erdogan was arrested for his ideas and ideas about the editor of Özgür Gündem daily. It is a great shame that people are being arrested for their thoughts, ideas, and writings, and once again, I condemn them, and this is where we order the immediate release of Aslı Erdogan. Mr. President, with this bag of legislation, the legislature is severely discredited in public. The legislator does not make laws according to the conjunctive. The legislature makes long-term laws for the benefit of the public, in regard to basic social needs, but the ruling party is trying to pass the bag of laws based on finger democracy and anti-public laws through parliament, depending on the unity of the day-to-day policies. The best example of this is some of the laws made during the AKP's rule, the CIC Law has been changed dozens of times, the National Education Law has been changed over and over again during the AKP's rule. The same has been changed over and over again in the health field, over and over again, during the period of the same party's power, nearly fifteen years of 15 years of power. For God's sake, I have to ask, what kind of mindset is that? You're a non-interrupted government for fifteen years, and you make laws in national education, health policy, economics, and CIC laws, dozens of times, to every minister, to every undersecretary, to every bureaucrat, to every bureaucrat who comes. Dear friends, as long as you don't do the law in common mind, common will, with a general, broad social understanding, this will continue to be the case, and these laws will go round and round and round and round, again, in the hands of power itself. Imagine, a government-owned fund is being established, the Entity Fund is being established, and the government-friendly fund is actually being excluded from this process, while by law, the control mechanism itself should be in parliament. You will sell public resources, you will put them inside an asset fund, but you will disable the Parliament, which has the authority to oversee it on behalf of the public, you will bypass the assembly, you will retain the right to command and control the control mechanisms of the House in this matter. The Parliament, which has the authority to oversee its public assets on behalf of the public, must, in the name of the public, seriously inspect the funds that are being cared for -- the public benefit, if it's being cared for -- on behalf of the public. You will pass the law through the House, and you will say to Parliament: "You will not have authority to oversee it, whereas it is necessary for the Parliament to oversee a fund of public resources in the name of public resources, both in conscience and morally, of the existing laws. Most importantly, in today's world, in terms of transparency, participation, pluralism, fair sharing, and certain democratic universal control mechanisms, it is necessary to rebuild the state on a democratic basis, not in the interest of pure capital, but also in the interests of workers, the poor, the young, the women, in the interest of all public interests. A similar fund was established during the late Ozal, called the Konut Industing Fund. You know, a lot of funds have been set up. FIRST, again, primary school teachers were supposed to have a dwelling. We know how all these funds ended up in a fiasco. We know how the private communication tax is used against its purpose. Therefore, in order for all these funds to be used, for foreign capital to come to Turkey, peace, democracy must be established. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Because in a place where there's war and conflict, where human and economic resources are wasted, it's insane to think that investment is going to come or actually do something for the public's benefit. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0196par0251	Mr. Botan, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There is a motion in Article 10 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of Law Proposal 413 be removed from the proposal text. Çağlar Demirel Osman Baydemir Selma River Suryet Taşdemir Behçet Yıldırım Saadet Capable Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0197par0264	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0196par0265	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0198par0266	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0196par0267	Mr. Kadir Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0199par0270	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to point out an important principle that's not taken into account when the various issues and proposals are being brought to Parliament, while these and the proposals concern the broad population, which is also a consultation. The consultation is an exchange of opinions based on the opinions of interested people and sections to find the truth, and the decision is whether to make or not to make based on the outcome of this exchange of opinions. The consultation is also the most effective and important way to shut down the path to dictatorship because it is a collective phenomenon of reason. As Saidi Nursi pointed out, the truth arises from the sadness of my diagnosis, meaning that the facts arise from conflicting ideas, opinions. Our religion, Islam, is a religion of great importance to consultation. In one verse of the Qur'an, for example, God commands the Holy Prophet: "When you want to do something, when you decide something, consult with people." • The Holy Prophet, who has followed this letter of command, has not made a single decision, he has made every decision according to the common counsel, and has never said, "I know everything." Even if he does not have his own opinion, even if he does not agree with it. In one of his Covenant Covenants, the Prophet says: "Those who leave the palace cannot find the right path. " It's possible that there are some concrete examples of this in the House. For example, the trustee's bill brought in without consultation and the consultation of Hakkari and Şırnak provinces in which the bills were intended to be made were not true, and it turns out that the withdrawal of these proposals for the time being was also correct with consultation. The heart wishes that the next drafts and topics of our four parties be accepted or rejected by the collective mind or accepted by the opinion of the relevant parts of the people, whether they are accepted or not. Then, as the Holy Prophet has instructed, the trustees will not be harmed. And those who leave the office will not be able to find the right path, as our Lord Ali commanded. I also wish that this last day, on this last day, this holiday would be a blessing to all of us in this House, in the hope that this consultation mechanism will be properly established.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0200par0276	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 11 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the Law Proposal 413 be removed from the proposal text. Çağlar Demirel Selma River Behçet Yıldırım Ayşe Acar Başaran Osman Baydemir Suriyet Taşdemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0201par0289	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0200par0290	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0202par0291	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0200par0292	Mr. Ayşe Acar Başaran will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Basian.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0203par0295	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. And we're getting to the end of that offer. Yes, we've said a lot of things, and there's probably going to be an offer, but when we really look at our year-long work in this House, I'm convinced that the power itself lives in a parallel universe, because we see a tremendous difference between what you've told and what you've put together. In our country, we are in great prosperity now, as if the economy was in great shape, as if there were gold and money in the pillows in everyone's house, and we're going to build a fund of this surplus, this budget surplus. In fact, when it's very clear that it's really a figment of the imagination, as I said, we've already seen clearly from here that all of the work or the work of power that it's shown or reflected since the beginning of the year, all of its work is actually fictional, essentially manipulated. Why is this work needed, frankly we can't make much sense of it, because right now Turkey is on the verge of bankruptcy, it's very clear. We're going through a period where we're told that our economy is so good, that even though it's being told to the public, if we go back to the agenda of the people we're not aware of, people are praying for grapes, and people are praying for tourists during this summer. In the process, as I said, let's set up a fund, take a quarter out of the pockets of the people and enrich someone. We're talking about a bill right now, we're talking about it, we're talking about it, we're talking about it, we're talking about it, we're talking about it. And every time, really, again, as I say, it's a surprising situation: the situation where we compare ourselves in some way with the European countries, with other developed countries -- I wish we could compare this in other cases, with democracy in those countries -- is that, in fact, the most important thing to increase the economic prosperity of a country is democracy, inner peace in a country, and if we go back to our main issue, well, then, you can be sure that instead of raising funds to make someone rich in this way, we'll be back to the public's real agenda. And what all of our friends are saying here today is that we can't develop this country with projects that are in and out of conflict, that are in and out, that are incompatible with the future laws of the country, that are incompatible with the future, that are not in any way with the facts. There's only one way and method for this country's development: to keep peace inside and outside, to make peace 100 percent of internal peace and internal democracy, and to essentially return to what's in our nature instead of this capitalist system, to return to the ecological economy. Yes, the funds are being set up. Who's going to get rich from this fund? Someone's gonna give someone a runt and make themselves rich over it. In a fund where the poor will be poorer, the rich will be richer, we will contribute as MPs here in Parliament. What will those who use this fund do? Yeah, maybe he's gonna build bridges, yeah, maybe he's gonna build roads, but when he's building these roads, he's not going to ask the public in any way, he's going to plunder nature, and eventually we're not just going to sink the country to the end of the world, but we're going to keep doing it one step at a time. So, we say, "Let's go back to this wrong. Here, to ensure democracy, to maintain social peace, basically, let's come and talk about our main issues here. If we untie them, I assure you, there is no obstacle to the development of the economy in Turkey. Let's discuss the public agenda here. Do you think that while the public is trying to protect the money from you, from power, that they will trust these funds, and through these funds, we will be able to make a development in this country, or make it believe that you serve this community? It's obvious that the public doesn't believe that anymore. I think this bill should be reassessed by asking the public again, and the public's opinion. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0204par0301	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion in Article 12 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 12 of the Law Proposal 413 be removed from the proposal text. Çağlar Demirel Selma River Behçet Yıldırım == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0205par0314	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0204par0315	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0206par0316	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0204par0317	Mr. Nihat Akdoğan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Akdoğan.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0207par0320	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 12 of the Law Bill 413. But, as all of our friends in particular know yesterday, the common emotion that actually excites all of us, the feeling that comes out here, is that some provinces suddenly change their names, change their places, suddenly thousands of people don't move from there, and I really want to thank all of our friends on behalf of the public who work here. Indeed, to this day we may have encountered something that was never cultured. The fact that the people who come here are putting pressure on... here, here, here, why are you making this decision? Why do you decide in a place like this, in a place like this, where the House of the Republic has been bombed? All the parties here -- from the committees to here -- have all of our friends worked, but we want to make one thing clear in particular -- it wasn't just about Hakkari, it wasn't about Şırnak. And to seize the assets of the municipalities, to the administrations, to the authority that the public did not give here, to the democratic responses to the ground, to give us the authority from here to a governor, a skim, an inspector, to a position that would strengthen more centrally over the locals, which perhaps eased the position of the people here. In particular, we're all seeing how troubled the 23rd and 50th substances are because there's a structure here that only wants to be the center of power, a structure that wants everything to be connected to itself. So we believe that this democracy, together life, is the biggest obstacle to enduring the differences. These materials are directly -- perhaps now -- they need to be removed from this bill because there is only one thing that is intended here: to intimidate the Kurds, to strengthen their power, and the other is to neutralize the opposition. So we all need to know that democracy is not going to get out of here because while you're doing it here, you're already bringing it in with the KHK, and you're already giving it to the inspectors. The other thing, it's really been mentioned a lot here. There were counties, and the commissioner told me about it. The minister gave up hope where he was going. Here, to build the city of the city, to build the district of the district, to make the province of the province of the province of the province of the city of Derecik, to make the district of Derecik a district of the province of Turkey, to make it a debt of the neck of all of us, the 26th term Parliament. Dear friends, the arrest of Aslı Erdogan, who was translated into 15 languages today, in a place where our intellectuals, in particular, have come forward today, because of their political views, or because of the persecution of another people, did not really suit a country that lived through the 2016 process. We believe that many journalists like Aslı Erdogan, who are now inside, will be able to open the way for this country by the release of the intellectual. With such a united opposition in the course of this process, this Parliament can also demonstrate its will to resolve the Kurdish problem, preventing the bloodshed, the tears. It's in this Parliament, as long as we accept each other by our differences. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0208par0326	Thank you, Mr. Akdoğan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0209par0332	Mr. President, thank you very much. We too have learned with great regret about the arrest of Aslı Erdogan. We simply want to remind General Kurula that if a coup attempt in a country had succeeded in this terrible coup attempt, a large number of academics, journalists and artists would have been kept in custody for a long time, then arrested and put in prison. What we've come to today is the image of a country where a coup threat is more successful than the image of a country that has all been driven away by democracy. Therefore, in order to get Turkey out of this, we also consider that the Assembly should not be indifferent to the social sensitivity of all parties in the High Assembly -- the political institution -- especially when academics, journalists, and artists -- are prevented from attacking them, especially if there is a crime, especially for those who have cost the community, the process of open trial must be carried out. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0210par0335	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0211par0336	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0210par0337	Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0211par0339	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, we received news of Aslı Erdogan's arrest. I mean, Aslı Erdogan was arrested for writing in the newspaper and many others like this...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0212par0341	What did he write, what did he write?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0213par0342	No matter what it says!
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0214par0343	Did you read it? Read it, read it!
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0215par0344	I mean, if you can't even stand it, we have nothing to say to you. Democracy, freedom...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0216par0345	Congressmans, let's hear it, please.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0215par0346	Of course, he's under arrest for not thinking like you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0216par0347	Let's not talk mutually, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0215par0348	Because he expressed his thoughts, expressed them freely. But, since you don't tolerate it, even here today, you can't stand it by interrupting it, today you perceive it differently on the grounds that journalists, academics, writers arrest all of them.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0217par0349	We've been listening for hours! Why can't we stand it? You talk for hours every day!
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0216par0350	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0215par0351	From here, the whole of Turkey has seen it once again, seeing once again what the ruling party in the General Assembly really thinks. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] President, I'm going to finish because they didn't.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0216par0354	I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0215par0355	Now, if there is a democracy in a country, if it represents freedom of thought, journalists, writers, academics will not be arrested for writing in a newspaper. Unfortunately, it is not possible to talk about democracy and freedom in Turkey, especially recently. Because politicians, journalists and academics are being arrested for expressing their thoughts for writing. So, who was really keen on this? It was the coup attempters on July 15th, they were the ones who wanted to do it, but today we see that there's no tolerance for thought after the coup. Aslı Erdoğan, a disturbed academic, a writer, a thinker; once again, Aslı Erdogan must be released. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0218par0362	There's a motion in Article 13 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provisions of the law, which is included in Article 13 of Law Proposal 413, shall be changed in the form of the law. Çağlar Demirel Osman Baydemir Selma River Suryet Taşdemir Behçet Yıldırım Saadet Capable Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0219par0372	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0218par0373	Government?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0220par0374	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0218par0375	Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0221par0378	Mr. President, we've conducted, we've conducted, we've conducted a work week, we've actually had some important results, some important lessons. Dear friends, the first conclusion is that by hiding a law from society, from the people, by hiding it, by bringing a law here in spite of that people, it's actually very inconvenient, and it's actually cost us the time economy. Look, the matter of appointing trustees to municipalities, we've spent days, weeks, commissions, time here. Again, the matter of the removal of Şırnak and Hakkari (Hakkari) from the province's status. The Hakkarii, the Şırnaks, are on their way everywhere to show their reaction. In fact, seeing the public's reactions, arguing with the public, forcing those people to organize such a reaction is actually choosing a way of dealing with the public in person. None of this is necessary. Another important conclusion, dear friends, is that we bring these laws here, we discuss them, and then the government gives up a number of motions, some clauses, but in the meantime, it's missing out on a lot of things that are disturbing society. I just told you, we're putting a law on Antwerp into this bag. Such a bag of logic should really be abandoned. Mr. Group Vice Presidents really need to get together on this. The law must not come here as a fundamental law, and it must be settled by compromise, by agreement, by speaking. A bag of laws changing 40 different substances, and when they get here, it's all mixed up. In addition to the confusion of everything, then when we have to oppose it, the ruling party -- so to speak -- I give it up, and you give it up. It also causes some laws against society, against society, against the public, to actually be overlooked. All of a sudden, we bring some of the stuff in here without a discussion, even on the commission. The way the rectors moved their appointment status to this parliament in yesterday's SEC Law has been a real challenge. It's a heavy language, I don't want to use terminology, but it's been a Ali Genghis game, to say the least. It's the kind of thing you have to avoid. Dear friends, with his opposition, no one is the enemy of this people, the enemy of this country. Compromising, talking, making a healthy law can be chosen. It has to be spoken, it has to be discussed...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0222par0383	This is the fifth time we've heard the same talk. That's not true!
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0221par0384	Congressman, do you object too much? Which one of these didn't happen?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0222par0385	It's the 10th time we've listened to the same conversation, the same conversation!
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0221par0386	Not 10 times, 15 times. Change results, change results.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0222par0387	For God's sake! We all have precious time!
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0223par0388	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0221par0389	The important thing is to change the outcome. You're going the same way without changing the outcome. We're talking about making healthy laws, making laws in the interest of this community. So, it's a common problem for all of us. It's the opposition's job to speak up. Yeah, well, as you're not listening... you don't want to hear it here, and here you're mostly five and ten. While I've been...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0224par0392	I don't have to listen to you!
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0221par0393	You have to listen, you have to listen.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0224par0394	I'm not listening.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0225par0395	Please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0221par0396	Everyone here has to listen to everyone. Here we really have to listen to each other if we're doing business in the interests of this people, in the interests of society, in the interests of the public. This is a place where people's problems are raised, discussed. If not, it's not a hand-lifting mechanism. If you make it this way...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0226par0398	But you have to do the rest talk, don't you?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0221par0399	If you make it this way, then it's really meaningless.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0226par0400	It's not right to insult a raise, it's necessary to give a speech that will rest.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0227par0401	That's not for you to decide!
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0228par0402	Congressmans, please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0229par0403	Well, dear friends, I don't know who's going to talk...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0228par0404	Mr. Toğrul, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0229par0405	Look, power needs to understand, you can't decide who talks what. If you're going to decide what we're going to talk about here...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0230par0406	Since someone else decided to talk to them...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0231par0407	And you don't get to decide what law I'm going to lay my hands on.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0232par0408	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Gündüz, please...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0233par0410	I'll figure out what to say from here. I have a problem, I'm here by the will of the people.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0232par0412	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0234par0413	He expects respect for his speech, insults those who raise their hand. There's no such thing! Everyone's free.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0235par0414	What insult?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0236par0415	What insult?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0234par0416	You're saying it's not a place to lift a hand.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0237par0417	It doesn't suit you, and you've been under union management.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0234par0418	Shall we ask thee what is not fitting?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0238par0419	I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0239par0420	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0238par0421	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. I'll vote electronically, give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush will now speak in favour of Article 86 of the Interior Charter. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0240par0431	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're working on an important law proposal today, and we're getting close to the end. With this offer, Turkey will form an Entity Fund management company, and Turkey will be able to implement the long-standing public-spoken Fund of Beings, which Turkey has long discussed. Many beings here will be brought to an effective, effective economy. An institution that we think will contribute to the country's economic development will emerge. In its preparation, of course, world examples were considered to be a flexible structure, as their structures appear to be a very important element for the world to compete with. If there is no flexible structure, if there is no structure that follows the world closely and adapts immediately to the world's developments, this fund could have much less to gain for Turkey. For him, these details will be carefully drawn up in the company's principal contract, in the design of the fund, in its establishment, and in the next phase of its establishment. Again, I think that the country's important -- which I've just expressed -- will actively contribute in many areas from industrial institutions to infrastructure investments. During the commission phase, there were serious contributions from the opposition at this point, some of them involved, some of them disagreed differently, and eventually came to the General Assembly. On behalf of myself and the AK PARTY Group, I would like to thank both the ruling party MPs and our friends from the opposition. We've signed an important arrangement, and I hope that it will be good for our country, for our country, for our nation. I'd like to rephrase my belief that the financial system will be much stronger in Turkey with this Entity Fund, and that it will add much more power to our financial system. Good luck, good luck. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0241par0437	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Ýzmir MP Musa Çam will speak against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0242par0441	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on the Law Proposal of 413 rows according to the Civil Code 86. I salute you all. The Entity Fund, as many of our friends say, sounds extremely pleasant and makes us all very happy because it's an important offer to invest in future generations, future generations, friends. Of course, we can't argue with that, but when we look at the practices and practices of Turkey and its practices around the world, we also see that there are no provisions that give us much hope. In the arrangements after 1980, especially during the late Ozal period, the Savings Fund was established, including the Housing Fund, and when we calculated the funds at universities, they were set up close to 107. But in this process, it is clear that those funds were out of control, that they were out of budget, that there was a parallel budget, that they were free from accountability, that all of those funds were sunk, that thousands of people had been victimised, that they had been destroyed, that they had been resolved in the later period of your power, particularly in the years, including the Enforcement Fund and the KEY.K.E.E.E.E.E. Well, aren't there good examples in the world? There's no doubt about it, fellas. For example, there are funds established in Norway. There's a fund set up in Norway that's about... Norwegians are not a business that can go on in the life of Petrol. In order for us to secure more future generations, we need to raise our savings in a fund. They say, and their savings, friends, about $7.4 trillion -- $740 billion -- have invested money in different investments in different countries of the world -- the next generation, the citizens of Norway, the children's futures -- have made some savings and investments. Given today's funding, friends, $175,000 per person has been saved. Well, that's good, isn't there worse? There are friends. I'll tell you one of those bad guys, he's in Malaysia. And I'd like to tell you about the Malaysian example. There is another fund set up in Malaysia in 2009, friends. This fund is a big fund, but the President of this is Malaysian Prime Minister Necip Rezak, but we also see that there are huge corruptions there. The United States says that more than $1 billion of the funds in Malaysia were bought in the United States. (It turns out that at $30 million, this is a luxury apartment from Manhattan, $39 million from Los Angeles, is being funded by stolen money, by shell companies, by Hollywood movies, Picasso and Monet paintings, which are being bought, which are being spent in casinos, that Prime Minister Necip has again transferred over $1 billion of money into his personal account. There's a rumor that 11 billion dollars went missing, folks. The chairman of the Fund, as predicted, Necip is friends. He says the $670 million from Saudi Arabia has been accidentally transferred into his account, Mr. Necip, but the money sent from Saudi Arabia... It's not enough, it's possible to see from here that Necip's operation and his wife's facelifts are being paid for. But this is what Necip says: "These are all stories, fiction; this requires an extraordinary state of state. " This is not an acceptable job. My dear friends, if we had established this fund six or seven years ago, if we had tried to build it, you would have likely brought someone to the head of this fund six or seven years ago. It wasn't enough, you were going to form a board of directors, and you were going to hand over the resources of the coup attempt to a significant extent. (CHP clapping in rows) It's so clear and clear. We were going to warn you again, we were going to say, "Don't do it, don't do it, don't do it." You were going to say, "You're wrong. You're thinking different." We were going to give you our historical warning again, my friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We are not against funds as principle, but we need to take lessons because of the practices and practices of Turkey in some countries. After all, I say we'll show you the way before the car collapses, and I bid you all good evening, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit08spe0243par0451	Thank you, Mr. Pine. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, open vote on Turkey's Entity Fund and Substitution Value Tax Law Amendments is a result of an open vote: ▪ Number of votes used: 239 [[x]] Fehmi Cubic Ali Haydar Hakver Congressmans, the offer has been accepted and legalized. I wish you all the best. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0243par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Membership of the Fethullahist Terror Organization (CHP/PDY) Council Research Commission, which aims to determine the measures to be taken through the historic coup attempt on July 15, 2016 and the actions of this Terror Organization in all directions. I'll have the political party groups read the list of candidates shown for their membership and put them to your votes. The Fethullahist Terror Organization (CHP/PDY)'s (July 15, 2016) Historical Impact Initiative and the Council Commission's Membership Chart on the Foundation's Memberships, aimed at determining the measures needed to be taken by all aspects of this Terror Organization's activities. [[10/276, 277, 278, 279]] [[9]] [[4]] [[1]] [[1]] I submit the reading list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, due to the fact that the holiday decision has been made, the meeting of members elected to the parliamentary research commission will be announced later, at the date and time, where they will be meeting to hold the election of the president, the vice president, the spokesman and the clerk. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the State of Turkey on the grounds that it is appropriate to ratify the Constitutional Agreement on the establishment of the Turkish-Japanese University of Science and Technology in the Republic of Turkey. The commission is here. The government is here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 416 rows. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen will speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0244par0044	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers won't last 20 minutes on this, but we'll probably fit it in. First of all, since there was a Aslı Erdogan polemic here earlier, I think I should say something. Dear lawmakers, if I wasn't a congressman right now, I'd be under arrest, too, because I wrote about seven years in that paper, but no one can claim that I praised one line of violence, that I was happy to see people die. As far as I'm concerned, Aslı Erdoğan is concerned. Hazreti Ali has a very beautiful saying that he is the enemy of what he doesn't know. Aslı Erdoğan, you don't have to know, you don't have to read Erdogan, but Aslı Erdoğan is a literary scholar, and then he has a master's degree in nuclear research at CERN, the Council of Europe, and then he has a Ph.D. in physics, and he's been translated into 9 languages, so even though we don't know what he's writing here, he's one of the best of all of us living literary scholars, perhaps one of us should be proud of. I wish we'd read and deliberately criticised, argued, and the world hadn't heard of Turkey by arresting such a literaryist for writing a column in a newspaper. Again, valuable lawmakers, there are some of you who do journalism, magazines. You know, columnists are not responsible for the newspaper's publishing policy, even the corners are often viewed as areas that have been saved, many writers have described them like this. You write things that go against the publishing policy of the newspaper, sometimes the management of the newspaper doesn't like you, doesn't tolerate you, doesn't tolerate you; sometimes it endures it, and you keep writing it. However, it is a shame for the Parliament to hear sentences stating that Aslı Erdoğan had to prove that he had committed no crime because you may not like Aslı Erdoğan, you may not like his books, but everyone under this roof must accept that the innocence of the person is fundamental because that's what the Constitution says you have sworn, and that's what the law says here. Aslı Erdogan doesn't have to prove he didn't commit a crime, friends, the opposite is true. Otherwise, during the history of Turkey, Mendes would have had to prove that he had committed no crime, and those who were executed in the 1970s would have had to prove that he had not committed any crime, and those who had been sent from all sides to the execution table after 1980. There are still people in prisons who can't get in or out of February 28th, who can't prove their innocence, but they're sentenced to a punishment. Dear MPs, the history of Turkey-Japanese -- of course, I don't want to use all the time at this time of night, but -- has come to this day with the relations of Abdulhamid, the famous Ertugrul Frigateini. In particular, there are commercial relations, cultural trade unions, good, valuable works conducted by the foundations established on this subject in Turkey. But there are two points in this agreement: one is the education language of the university that will be established, the Turkish-Japanese University -- perhaps you haven't looked at the text of the agreement -- not in Turkish, not in Japanese, but in English. Now, I think the first condition for a language to become a language of science is that it needs to be believed in the language itself by the people, the people, the people who run that country, the people who run it. I'm not going to argue about learning a foreign language, learning English, studying English and all that in here in a few minutes, but you're building bridges, you're setting transit fees on dollars, you're building universities, you're building education languages in English, but when you're on the stand, if you're doing a nationality, independence delivery in the squares, it's also supposed to be a subject of discussion. Dear lawmakers, if our children take English lessons from elementary school to university, but two sentences can't express themselves, I think it's primarily about how we don't teach their native language; I'll leave the other languages aside, it's a problem that we can't teach Turkish. But, of course, in Japan, English is a different freak, because I think you'll all remember, the end attack of World War II is also a great shame in human history. Hiroshima and Nagasaki were killed by the atomic bombs of the United States of America, tens of thousands of people died, and the Japanese emperor rescued the Japanese people, and I quote them in quotes, and the position that they fell in love with what they had been told, and the Constitution of Japan was made by Americans. For him, there is a very remarkable 9th article of the Japanese Constitution. Japan is a state that writes to its Constitution that it is against war, and in the end it is against war, that I should not form an army. Of course, we are looking at a place that says, "No weapons in the world, no armies in the world." Japan has been trying to form an army for several years, but America, who bombed Japan's security, has also built its Constitution in America, so English education, I think, also means something ironic to the Japanese. Another important point in this agreement is the election of the high-value MPs, the chancellor. Of course, I don't know if it's a strange coincidence, but today we're talking to Japan, here, about the college foundation agreement, the President of the Republic of Turkey, the only authority on the election of the chancellor. The academic staff has no authority, so the academic staff does not have the ability, the right, the authority to elect a chancellor, not the right, not the right, at least that's what this agreement describes. And yesterday, there was already an attempt to bring an arrangement back here to the Parliament -- so I'll just say it's unfortunate -- about the election of the chancellor, which was already brought back from this ridiculous system of Turkey. Dear friends, if we're going to face the coup of September 12th, if we're going to settle the score, I think one of the places we're going to start is the barracks of universities. Those who don't trust the teaching members have established the YOK, and those who don't think that universities can't govern themselves, they have established the YOK, which, if you let them go to the drummer or the zurnadji, so the government has set up the YOK to rule them, to choose their rulers. There are many examples that today, not only today's President, but the previous presidents, we all react from time to time, appointing the sixth in line, and the one who received the vote, as well as the rector. But even that means that even such a democracy comes to our attention that yesterday an offer was made about the appointment of the president of the rectors, when the opposition was met with a reaction, he came back. And now, in the deal we're about to vote on, we'll have approved the appointment of President of the President of the Turkish-Japanese University. Dear lawmakers, it's not just a question of a university, of a new university; it's a matter of how we look at democracy. If we think of democracy as sharing responsibility, as managing, as a compromise, we don't get all the powers ourselves, we avoid it; rather, we try to pass on as much power as possible; we believe that the whole community can govern itself; we assume that civil society, occupational organisations, academy can choose its own executives among themselves as a business department; and we look at life like this, but if we look at life differently, we take all the power in one person; in fact, he's a very large burden, a very heavy responsibility. So, in fact, I think it's about the election of the rectors at universities -- it also shows in today's agreement, and yesterday's initiative shows that in the coming period, we will now be pushed to a point behind even the 12 September Constitution, even the 12 September regulations, even the CEC Law. Dear MPs, you know, in villages there are sometimes so many resentments after the mayor's election that there are so many tensions that four years, five years of resentment, fights don't end, until the next election. Yesterday, when I looked at the reason why the rectors should be appointed by the President, why there should be no elections, I saw the same determination. There's resentment, chaos, and therefore the choice is bad. And the best way not to cause resentment, chaos, for all of us who represent everyone, I've seen your approach, your style, your approach, that it's the best way for Mr. President to appoint the right chancellor for all of us. I'm not going to go any further, but if you'll excuse me, I'll be very brief. Maybe I'll come back to you in the Israeli agreement, but the House is going on vacation, and we've actually gone through a historical curve that we need to take seriously on July 15th; more specifically, we've come back from the pole, but I don't know how many lessons we've learned, how much lessons we've learned, but I'll leave it to your discretion. In this one year, I do not feel at ease with my conscience as to whether we are carrying out the heavy burden that Turkey's community expects from Parliament. That's all we could do as opposition MP, maybe we could do more, build a better language, make more constructive opposition, communicate better with you, and maybe make healthier decisions, but it's what we lack, but whatever we lack, you can appreciate that power has more responsibility to the power group that's in your hands. As a member of the Human Rights Commission in particular, let me just say that I'm ashamed not to use any further statements, because while there were hundreds of allegations of torture in prisons, detention centers, we couldn't go to a single detention center, dear friends, not a single prison visit was made. They may be wrong; the board can be established, the commission will work, the commission will work, and the commission will determine that there is nothing wrong, that there is no injustice, that there is no injustice, that there is no abuse, that there is no dishonor, that we will come out of our chests, and we will say to the whole world, "There is no injustice to anyone." As Mr. Prime Minister said in his last group speech, we will rule with the harshest punishment, and we will all be proud of it. But unfortunately, our commissions have been put to so much work, it's been allowed to work so much, it's been given opportunity. At least for myself, I felt the need to express my lack of apology. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0245par0058	Thank you very much, Mr. Bilgen. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Balıkesir MP Ahmet Akın will speak. Here you go, Mr. Akin.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0246par0062	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Before we get to the point, today, unfortunately, we lost a dear brother in Balıkesir. I also bless our dear brother, Specialist Mesut Demir, here in the presence of all of you. Next to him, our 16th martyr since June 7th, today, unfortunately, without me... and I came here with regret. Because, in particular, we fought so hard not to leave our martyrs alone that we were always there for them, but today we didn't. For him, I want to share my sorrow here. I'd like to read to you the names of my 16 brothers: Omar Faruk Bol, Tuncay Küyzen, Sercan Özkul, Mustafa Serin, Turgut Solak, Engin Balcı, Ramadan Taldiz, Servet Ildiz, Özcan Happy, Aycan Özdil, Attila Kaya, Gökhan Bakır, Mehmet Kutlu, Hasan Semerci, Ahmet Semerci, and finally our friend Mesut Demir from Dedesville. I remember them with mercy, and their abode will be paradise.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0245par0064	God rest his soul.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0246par0065	I'm asking all of you to pray to get rid of this terror, this PKK curse. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group, referring to the establishment of the Turkish-Japanese University of Science and Technology in the Republic of Turkey between the Supreme Government of the Republic of Turkey and 416 rows. I hereby salute the Veterans and our great nation. It is clear that the agreement will contribute to our country's education, teaching area and improve Turkey-Japanese relations. However, I would like to share with you some of our suggestions so that the university will provide more equipped graduates and more effective activities: The 4th article, titled Language Teaching, stated that the language of education at the University of Turkish-Japanese Science and Technology will be in English, and Turkish and Japanese will be provided as an elective course. This could cause Japanese students of the school to graduate from school without learning Turkish and Turkish students in Japanese. Therefore, we think it would be right for Turkish students who are enrolled in school to learn Japanese and take mandatory Japanese courses during the course of their schooling period, and for Japanese students to learn Turkish and graduate from school in the same way. The school's ability to teach English is understandable, but it is incompatible with the name and mission of the school that Japanese and Turkish will be educated as electives, not necessarily. In addition, the appointment of the president of the university and the head of the trustee's delegation will be carried out by the President of the Republic of Turkey under the 5th, 8th and 10th Articles of the agreement. Unfortunately, the exclusion of the university's existing higher education laws, the creation of the university administration in a different way than other universities in Turkey, and the lack of authority of academic staff in the administration are thought to be thought of. Therefore, we consider it the Republican People's Party that would be more accurate for the functioning and efficiency of the institution to be determined according to democratic rules. It is not possible for the academics in school to have a say in the school's administration, rather than to have the President of the Republic of Turkey to be so competent, in charge, and to ignore the duties of academics. We think that antidemocratic mentality and ambition to control everything can lead to an ineffective use of such a beautiful opportunity. My dear friends, it must not be forgotten that science rises on the basis of doubt, interrogation, and objection. University administrations are part of that foundation. If you try to establish a submissive, biatarian government in the first place, you'll prevent this university from reaching the desired goals. We have advice for you that a government that has set record failure after failure in national education, changing the education system according to the minister, and turning education into a puzzle, the most important issue, should not make mistakes with Japan again in establishing a university, and we ask you to consider it. We certainly hope that this initiative will lead to good relations with Japan, but in foreign policy, the plight of the AKP is, unfortunately, clear and clear. I'm afraid your record is clear that we'll be enemies tomorrow with the ones we're friends with today. So please take our advice. My dear friends, a settlement agreement with Israel will also be raised today. This agreement is only part of a framework text that is not all presented to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. So we witnessed a lack of discussion in the Commission, and we all carried out this discussion together. It has been made clear that Israel did not pay compensation to Turkey, but only granted $20 million. With this agreement, Israel has managed to protect its citizens from the legal and criminal process in Turkey, whose main goal was the attack on the Blue Marmara. The agreement, which does not include any testimony for the removal of the Gaza blockade, will, unfortunately, replace the history pages as an example of how badly the Turkish foreign policy has been mismanaged. My dear friends, look, throughout your power, unfortunately, you've said zero problems, our foreign policy has become more problematic than zero problems, even a complete problem. Please give yourself a self-criticism, don't run from responsibility, don't make our nation pay for your mistakes, see what you've done with our foreign policy. Every time the AKP makes the mistake, everyone cheats you, people suffer. That's why I'm asking you not to make people suffer any longer. Look, my fellow lawmakers, last week we went to Canada with a delegation of the Foreign Affairs Commission. I'd like to thank all the party representatives who are in the delegation, and I'd also like to thank you very much for our compatible work. If this harmony and unity had always been implemented in foreign policy and taken into account the warnings and advice of our leader Kemal Kilicdaroglu, our party, believe me, our country would be at a very different point right now. Because we all have to be partners in foreign policy. The legacy of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the Republic of Turkey, is to move Turkey to the level of murky civilisations and to make Turkey the most prestigious country in the world, and that should be our common goal. Dear friends, in our talks in Canada, we have once again seen the state of our foreign policy with all party representatives. Unfortunately, we all saw that the organization had been placed all over the place. I'm saying it's settled, and I'm saying it over and over again because it's too late to realize the true faces of the people you've been arm in hand until yesterday and when they ask, we've been deceived. It never cleans you up in foreign policy, in the name of politics and seriousness. Come learn from here, don't bring politics into the mosque, the barracks, the courthouse. My dear friends, in our talks there, it's very painful, and we've suffered a great deal as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. Especially if the Justice and Development Party alone had gone without opposition and tried to explain the terrorist organization, they would have found no one to believe. Each time we met, they turned to us, to the opposition, and to me, and to our friend, who is an MPP, they asked him, "What do you think? We said that this attack was not an attempt by the terrorist organization to hit the AKP, but a low blow to our country, our democracy and our future. For him, my dear friends, as a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, we have experienced the situation of the Republic of Turkey in foreign policy, and we hope and hope that good will come out of this evil, and hopefully you will learn a good lesson from them. Look, in foreign policy, that party isn't this party; the only issue is the interest of the Republic of Turkey and our country. The lack of foreign policy that we see in these visits is unfortunately filled by the terrorist organization, and you have tolerated them. Now, what we need to do, first of all, is to join hands, arms, arms, and unity in order to improve our country's reputation in foreign policy, and to get rid of these terrorist organizations, the PKK and ISIS, all together. We have to teach our nation's fighting lesson as a whole here in the House together. My dear friends, we also find it wrong to turn the climate and the AKP's efforts to turn it into an opportunity for its own political purposes. What we experienced on July 15th will be an opportunity to correct our parliamentary democracy and our mistakes in our foreign policy. The coup attempt was made against our secular republic, our democracy and our freedoms. We, the Republican People's Party, are in favor of democracy living with all its institutions and institutions. To that end, we are fighting a political challenge as the main opposition party. We're fighting a war in Turkey, where rights and freedoms are guaranteed, where legal security is guaranteed for everyone without distinction. We never accept power or custody over democracy, the will of the people and the principles of the law. We can all respond together to this coup against democracy and freedom with the expansion of democratic space and freedoms. Let this be an opportunity for all of us, for secularism to prevail, for secular and scientific education to be reacquainted, for the integrity of the state staffs to rule. On July 15th, we saw and experienced the result of his understanding as a country. Hopefully, we've learned the proper lessons, and from now on, we won't bring the congregations or the politics into the mosque or the barracks. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0247par0081	Thank you, Mr. Akin. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. RETURN PRODUCTION OF TURK-JAPON COMMUNITY IN THE ACTIVITY OF TURK-JAPON IN THE ACTIVITY OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY REPLICATION OF TURK AND THE BUILDING OF THE UNIVERSITY OF TEKNOLOGY MADDE 1- (1) was signed on June 30, 2016 in Ankara. Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Japan, the establishment of the Turkish-Japanese University of Science and Technology was approved by Dair Agreement. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 1, Mr. Ruhi Ersoy will speak on behalf of Osmaniye MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0248par0089	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we believe and support the opening of this university, which we believe will contribute positively to the Turkish-Japanese relationship. However, we expect that the universal understanding that comes to mind when it comes to college is built at many points in such an institution. In Turkey, technology is thought of as being called "Japanese" (Japan) and in this sense, it is thought of by people with gook eyes and science. How did Japan evolve here, and how did it come to this?" the question must be asked immediately. In some intellectual circles, how is it that the mind is able to power modernity so much that it can be added to modernity that we think about it. Of course, there are many reasons for that. So the fact that Japan is a far-off island of its own is the basis for many political, cultural issues, not the fact that it's a deep, deep culture, but the ability to perform itself on its own cultural dynamics. The story of a country that was about to be destroyed in World War II was able to uncover world brands after World War II. Of course, in this university, we expect and desire inspiration from this place. In World War II, wondering what understanding these Japanese kamikazes were doing, America is doing some research to resolve, make sense of it, and in their next relationship to Japan, to determine the relations between America and America. One of them is the social anthropologist Ruth Benedict. He has a work called "Krizantem" and "The Sword." This examines the cultural dimensions of the principles that determine Japanese attitudes and behavior. Now, we can do criticism here, and we can say that America has made an agent of the scientist who puts social anthropology into action, who recognizes culture and defines its policies. But you can also say that it is necessary to understand countries that need to be a great state. So Bernard Lewis' understanding of the Middle East, Lawrence's traveling in the fields, knowing the culture you're dealing with at the heart of all of this, and determining your politics on it. But we're talking about college today, and the university we're talking about is the University of Turkish-Japanese Science and Technology, which is born on Turkish-Japanese relations. Now, considering that science and technology set up the floor as a stepping stone on the human element, we can't remove the human from the cultural context that he belongs in. So we have to think of culture as a basis in this university. If we just impose positive science on culture-free science and technology and ignore the cultural context that we just talked about, this university won't achieve its goal. In order to achieve its goal, it is imperative that a social science floor be given as an education, a program, a curriculum on people who study here. Yeah, you could say science and technology. Perhaps it is necessary for the Japanese and Turks to gather Japanese and Turks together, to do education language in Turkish or English or Japanese? In the debate, you may have said that the universal language is English as a partner, let's do it in English. But we believe that it is necessary for the Japanese children to learn Turkish, for the Turks to learn Japanese, for the students to learn Japanese, for the students to learn culture, for each other's cultural layers and for the understanding of each other's cultural structures, for the courses of culture, and for both cultures to become socialized, not just limited, not limited, for each of them to know each other's cultural layers, and to understand each other's culture programs. On the other hand, for freedoms and science to flourish when it's called college, diversity and freedom are inevitable. Precious MPs, the Maveraunnehri Samarkand and Buhara centre, where Turkish culture is fermented, are also one of the main points of the joys of Turkish-Islam civilization, but the basic feature of this place is that many people in the region have been able to have problems expressing their beliefs and ideas and their freedoms within themselves. Taking this source of freedom from the Orhun River, the prophetic understanding of its understanding of the Turkish mind and culture gave birth to the Imamam Maâturidî. The understanding that distinguishes Imam Maâturidît and politics, the status of the woman and God, and, in general, the understanding of humanity in general, the immunization of the majority in Turkey, the understanding of Maturidi. There are various phases, but deep down, the universal mind is fed by the local and national resource and offered to the service of humanity. While the Turkish-Japanese University of Science and Technology may mean that Japan is a country of equal value to technology and science, we have also seen the last example of a Japanese engineer who worked at the Osman Gazi Bridge, who worked as a principled man, moral man, principle man, and the work he promised when he did not fulfill his work ethic and how he could commit harakiri and commit suicide. We're discussing the Osman Gazi Bridge or bridges in a very different context; we're discussing it with its name, we're arguing with its rank, we're discussing the necessity with it, but it's a matter of killing a Japanese engineer at Osman Gazi Bridge, who should not be overlooked, on the grounds that the rope has been cut off.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0249par0099	But he wasn't wrong.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0248par0100	Now, when we put all this together, we hope that with the general Turkish-Japanese relationship of the University of Turk-Japan in general, in an environment where Turkey has begun to corrupt and alienate its values in many ways, it hopes that cultural intimacy with the Japanese, who are an identityal cultural expression, will be a reminder of itself to the Turkish-Japanese community, and we believe that it will be so. We want young people from that university to do good work for Turkey, for Turkish-Japanese relations, for universal values. Ertuğrul Gazi Fırkateyini, expressed to the General Assembly that we will closely follow the developments of the Turkish-Japan University as the National Movement Party Group, the Council and the ruling committee, who established this work for Turkey, for the Turkish nation, for the Turkish world, for the Islamic world, for the sake of humanity. Good evening.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0250par0103	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. In Article 1, Mr. Bulent Öz will speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0251par0107	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the establishment of the Turkish-Japanese University of Science and Technology between the Turkish and Japanese governments. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, we remember the historical traces of Turkish-Japanese relations in relation to the Ertugrul Frigate, which sank off the coast of Japan. Sultan II. It is known that Abdulhamid had sent Ertugrul Frigateini to respond to the engagement sent by the Emperor of Japan with the Ottoman Empire's greatest engagement and to make concrete progress in relations between the two states. On the way back, when Ertugrul Frigate sank, our 531 sailors were martyred, and our surviving crew, under instructions from the Japanese Emperor, the position of the Japanese government and its people allowed good relations to continue. After this dramatic beginning, the Japanese, who were trapped in Tehran during the Battle of Iran-Iraq in 1985, were rescued by the initiatives of Prime Minister of the period, Turgut Özal. The historical association with these two events has deepened. Dear lawmakers, we are discussing this bill today because international contracts are required in our Constitution. Of course, it is important and meaningful for our country to have such an important collaboration with a country in the field of science and technology that has a say in the world. Because Japan, with its production of about $45,000 per capita in numbers that it transfers into science and technology to humanity, it's a country that has grown up in educational systems with a high moral background, with its politicians ahead of the social prosperity of corruption economy, with a decent and decent human resource doing its job. Thus, we are greatly pleased to be united in this sense by the government of people who take moral, science, virtue, and such concepts at the center of their lives. Especially considering the years we've lost in the wake of the September 12, 1980 military fascist coup, which is increasingly corrupt, procrastinating, mind-blowing, non-thinking, non-questioning, educational system, which is based on the education system of political powers and education, which we've lost to the congregations and cults, there's no way to argue with that agreement. Dear lawmakers, as we see ministers trying to rebuild our national education system at every turn, I wonder if in our country, a scientific training model based on secessional foundations could be created? In an environment where the question is asked, it is also seen as a broken clock. In this Turkish-Japanese University of Science and Technology, education in the fields of energy, nanotechnology, biomedicals, space technologies, nuclear science, reactor engineering, architecture, construction, earthquake engineering, social sciences, especially through educational institutions and those institutions, will be a viable project in a process in which almost all of our cells are surrounded by religious, reactionary sects. Dear lawmakers, I hope you don't object to what we're doing in our country for the reasons that I've told the Japanese government about this cooperation, which has the opportunity to contribute tremendously to secular science with its historical collection and experience. In 14 years of your power practice, you invested in a reactionary model of education, not science and technology. Even if you ignore all our warnings, the coup attempt, July 15th, has partially caused you to wake up and listen to our voice. Dear lawmakers, it is decided that the language of education of the university will be in English, while Turkish and Japanese students will study Turkish and Japanese as elective lessons. For cultural integration to be achieved in the desired size, the language of education will be appropriate if it is given alongside English as a Turkish and Japanese mandatory lesson in learning the language of students in the nationalities of at least both countries. Turkish-Japanese university will be established and will be an elective in Turkish and Japanese, which makes no sense. And one last wish is that you will not soon compare this university of science and technology to your own understanding, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0252par0116	Thank you. There's a motion on article 1 that I'm having read... There's just been a motion on the 1st article. I told you, the motion has been made. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There is no demand for word on Article 2. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the clear vote of the Bill of the Law on the Approvement of Agreement between the Government of Turkey and the Government of Japan for the establishment of the Turkish-Japanese University of Science and Technology in the Republic of Turkey: [[x]] Fehmi Cubic Ali Haydar Hakver The bill has been adopted and legalized. We wish him well. Members of the law shall begin negotiations with the State of Turkey and with the Foreign Commission Report (1/754), where it is appropriate to ratify the Compensation between the Republic of Turkey and the State of Israel. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 414 rows. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Hishyar Ozsoy will speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Ozsoy. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0253par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0254par0153	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0255par0154	It's not a conversation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0256par0155	Congressmans, there's a speaker on the stand. Thank you. Here, Mr. Ozoy, I'll reboot your time.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0257par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. I have taken a pledge on behalf of the HDP to talk to the Republic of Turkey and the People's Democratic Party (HDP) about the Approval of the Compensation of the Usul Agreement between the State of Israel and the Republic of Turkey in 414. Of course, in the morning talks, in various conversations, the agreement with Israel was addressed, and many of our friends criticised the agreement. The agreement has technical dimensions that can be criticised, and we need to interpret the agreement politically.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0258par0163	Congressmans, if you'll keep your meetings quiet... please...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0257par0164	Now, the truth is, it's very easy to criticize this agreement, from a very simple point of view: Prior to this agreement, the government had three conditions for normalisation of relations with Israel: Israel had insisted on three provisions, such as compensation for its victims and the removal of the blockade over Gaza. So, in the current case, the government has not been able to get what it wants to do with both the apology and the blockade on Gaza; we see that. We can raise a lot of criticism from here, but we don't think that's a very useful, very useful method. After a few technical criticisms, I would like to share some of our thoughts on how to transform Turkey's relations with Israel in the Middle East, Turkey's relations with Russia, Turkey's relations with Syria and even Egypt. In the title of the agreement, the agreement says "Tazminat" (firstly the public needs to know it very well) -- this is not a compensation agreement. Because the concept translated from English as compensation is the concept of comppensation, meaning to make amends, there is no legal binding. In fact, our other friends have already expressed that the Israeli government gives this $20 million as an ex gratia, so it gives it out of courtesy, courtesy, and kindness. In that sense, the friends were gracious. They say so. So, I'm going to give you $20 million, and you're going to cover it up. You're going to close it politically and you're going to close it diplomatically, and the state of the Republic of Turkey will not legally have any criminal or legal demands from Israel. Plus, if the victims of Blue Marmara are sued -- there are 32 open cases, two of whom have been settled, they've ruled a compensation of around 300 billion -- they'll then pay compensation on behalf of the state of Israel, the Republic of Turkey. I mean, with taxes coming out of our own pocket, we might be able to compensate the victims of the Blue Marmara. What Israel did... [[Noises]] Well, folks, it's this time of night, we've been waiting nine hours, asking for 20 minutes to talk... Well, it's no big deal, honey, so it's no big deal. Dear friends, what's very important here is that in the preparation, writing and signing of this agreement, as far as we can tell from the press, as we can see, the ideas of the victims of the Blue Marmara have not been applied very much because they're screaming right now. Basically, what they're saying is, Mr. President, you're the ones who have the blood flowing, so you have the say in an agreement with Israel. So, when we take into account the statements of these victims' families to the press, there really is a moral and democratic problem. I mean, how is it that God does not see His right to forgive His servants, and yet the state sees Him in a position to forgive the servants? This is an interesting situation. It seems that for a very long time, the AKP government, which made the incident with the Blue Marmara and its victims and its victims, as in many foreign policy issues, the domestic political material, which was exploiting it -- and I say it in such a heavy way -- and in general the sympathy of the people of Turkey to Palestine, has sacrificed them and their demands to the cold cruelty of the real politics. Some oratories who have spoken for the AKP here recently use this concept -- I like it very much -- often: what you call politics is a dynamic process, especially what you call diplomacy. What do you mean by that? Constantly, politics change, balances change, and we have to adapt ourselves to these balances. There's nothing we can say about that. Yes, political processes are, of course, dynamic, multi-actual, multi-actual, and everyone tries to keep up by changing positions, but what's troubling here is that if people didn't go so hard on the AK PARTI today, no one would go away; if the EC PARTI didn't judge this issue of the Blue Marmara, the issue of the Israeli-Palestin matter from a moral point of view, we wouldn't be doing it today either. It may be that there are mistakes in foreign policy, and if you return from wherever you want to go, it's a profit. In logic, no one will criticize Turkey's reconnection with its neighbours in the Middle East, but in a certain balance, it's so loud... so I remember in those election squares that it can go up like that. Now, if you come and go with such powerful moral arguments in a place where there's an extremely instrumental, real logic like foreign policy, then at the point where you're really getting 9 people to die, it's $20 million. We'll get to the point. What we're saying is, unfortunately, it's been quite a while...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0259par0172	The downloader is what you said.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0257par0173	Yeah, $20 million isn't a bad deal, but they're going to make a lot of it out of those gas coins. How Israel got involved, how he wanted to sell those natural gas sources to Turkey, now the whole world media is talking about it, and no one's talking about $20 million because there are bigger deals being made. Those six articles we see here, my friends, the tip of the iceberg, the only tip of the iceberg, is the military, the intelligence, the commercial world, but the government -- if it doesn't trust the Foreign Affairs Commission -- it certainly doesn't share that kind of information with us. They gave us a piece of paper of six points, and we're looking at them, and we're just seeing them on those six points. It's all about how to pay compensation. I'll give you the money, no legal lawsuits, no criminal charges, go do what you're doing with those victims. That's all there is to it. So we've been given this kind of deal, but there's a big frame deal behind it, like our orator friend from CHP said, but we're going to confirm it here today, and you don't know it, and we don't know what we approve of. What kind of relationships are behind it, and I really hope we'll have to follow them from that press in the West, or in the Israeli newspapers. Now, friends, it's not just about Israel's reorganisation, the normalisation of relations with Israel. You know, in the West, there was almost no country in the Middle East where Turkey could say hello, especially in Europe and America. I expressed Syrian policy with these concepts: Syria consumed all of Turkey's foreign policy energy. There was tension with Egypt through Syria, and look, it was also related to Syria. Because of Syria, there was tension with Iran, with Iraq, with Russia, with Europe, with America, with everyone, with relationships, including France. Now, Turkey is doing some very radical U-turns to break this isolation both in the Middle East and in the world. For example, an apology on the basis of a letter to Russia, and then he tries to normalize relations. Now, on one side, of course, there are economic concerns because, you know, tourism has taken a very serious blow, agriculture has taken a serious blow. I mean, it's an excuse if it's thought to be a mistake, and it's a virtue, so let's not let anyone make a matter of national pride and honor out of it, and if you think you're wrong, it's a virtue to come out and apologize. But it doesn't work from such a simple, moral place, I'm afraid. We read in the newspapers, though, because relations with Russia have been corrected, but we see from other sources that the situation is not at all in the United Nations' lobby, and we hear from other sources, only here, we don't get information from sources close to the government. Relations, yes, are slowly beginning to merge like this, but relations between Turkey and Russia will not recover until Turkey's Middle Eastern policy is radically transformed. Maybe there's going to be some economic, commercial comings and goings, and they're going to sort things out, but the problem is it's standing right where it is. Next week, I think -- and the press -- the president's going to have a visit to Iran, and they're trying to clean up relations with it, and they're trying to put it together with Israel. These were the ones that were always troubled. Again, Bezar Assad was exposed to the press where he had a secret meeting with Assad, which was not denied. The other day, the Prime Minister too, in six months' time, will also have good things about Syria. Other than that, we know that last April, officially Turkey thanked Egypt, and Sisi heads it. How can we arrange our relations with Egypt now? Good, good, there's nothing wrong with it; there's nothing wrong with it; it's rhetorical. Now, the troubles with all these states have been discussed in all the election squares in Turkey, haven't they? In fact, the Egyptian policy of Turkey, for example... Friends of the CHP, are you listening? Friends of the CHP...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0260par0178	We're listening, we're listening.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0261par0179	Just keep talking, please.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0257par0180	I remember when the CHP criticised them for Egyptian politics -- they were declared traitors, they were declared traitors when it was built because of Syria, we remember. So when we raise the criterion... Of course, when it turns into domestic policy material, when everything, unfortunately, is poured into the hammock at the polls, the foreign policy goes off course. How can we rearrange this country's relations with the world from a more real, more instrumental place than that kind of politics now? With a practical, instrumental mind, such as this. But while we're doing this, look, again, look at the reasons for the deal, sir, they say: "We do this, but in fact we do this to help Palestine better. I mean, they don't give up moral superiority. And no one accepts that mistakes have been made, so since there is no culture that we call a special criticism here, CHP, HDP, MPP are constantly criticizing anyone who comes out. Well, tell us once, friends: really, we have exaggerated Turkey's capacity, its current capacity -- the country doesn't have a very low capacity -- and we've tried to design the region -- and we've encountered a lot of complications while doing it, and we don't really know how to get out of it now. Look, you're applauding it like this, but these flirtations with Israel, with Iran, with Russia, with Egypt, with these alliances are causing serious crises in the alliances that Turkey is in so far. The other day -- we don't know what he knows anymore, but we don't -- a Saudi politician can't change his policy in Syria. Now, why is he saying this, we don't really know what Turkey's relations there, what kind of connections they have with what groups, who they've given weapons to, can these groups return to Turkey tomorrow? Because you can't make foreign policy like a bee from a flower to a flower like that; when you're put in one, the other gets angry at you. You're approaching Russia right now, and I'm going to blackmail West a little bit -- I'm going to go in there -- maybe we'll get something out of there. But as the West gets angry, NATO gets angry, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe -- you'll see from here -- is going to seriously discuss taking Turkey to other places. Hence, such a flexible pragmatism will have negative effects. It's not like everything's going so well. When you go to one side in a world where there are many camps in the camped world, you have to know that when you go to the other, you have a relationship with the other, you have to know that. Now -- I'm running out of time -- and we're saying, guys, why is Turkey now starting these U-turns, this change in course? Did the input do well or did it do bad? This is a separate discussion. Now, look, we, the HDP, think that more about political and national security concerns than economic concerns at the center of all this politics. There was a Syrian policy that had transformed Turkey's entire foreign policy, which was damaging, and Turkey still hasn't seriously converted Syrian policy. It was a two-headed policy, Syrian policy. First of all, Assad was going to leave. Second: The Kurds would not have any political status, an autonomy, a federation, in what we called the "Rojava" in northern Syria. Turkey gave up the first article, and I told it here three months ago, and it gave up, and now the people in Syria will decide the future of Asad. What's left? Back then, the Kurds would not form a Kurdish band there, but they had joined two cantons, and we will not unite the third canton. You hold the hand of Israel, and you hold the hand of Russia. Tomorrow you will go to Iran, perhaps to Egypt, and even to Assad. Why? The reason is that the Kurds will not unite those two cantons. You say, "No." That's how the whole world reads. Open up to international relations magazines, a national security concern at the heart of Turkey's maneuver, and let the Kurds not create a second northern Iraq in Syria in the new Middle East; that's the story. So we say, "Go to Israel -- go again, but go again -- instead of going to Russia, going to Putin, going to Assad, or going to Sisi, why don't you go to the Kurds? You say Muslim, you say your brother, we've lived together for a thousand years. You say, "Why can't anyone think of looking for a new basis for a new relationship with Kurds?" It's a bit of a nuisance, isn't it? On the other side of the border. Look, we have a lot of relatives on the other side of those borders. Seven or eight relatives of one of our Mardin MPs died the other day in the explosion in Kamişlı. It's this close. I don't search the grounds of the meeting with them, and I may get intelligence and military support from Israel, I'll drown the Kurds in Syria, maybe I'll convince Assad Remember when the Kurds and Assad were brothers? America sent its planes, and now it's flying around here and there. There's a way to make things easier. We're still where we are. We're just saying what we said five, six months ago. There's no need to go all the way around the world. Sit down and make a clean, fair peace with the Kurds, arrange relations with the Kurds in Turkey and Syria, and we'll all take a new position in the Middle East. Otherwise, it's really futile if you try to continue the old policy with the groups you used to be friends with, and then the enemies, and the groups you're trying to make friends with, and the countries that you're trying to make friends with. The political bill may be cut to the government, but the general bill will be paid to everyone living in Turkey. Finally... I'm out of time. He graduated from the American Robert High School of Istanbul, graduated from the Boğaziçi University Computer Department, graduated from a place like CERN, left his Ph.D. at Rio de Janeiro, and started writing. It's shown among the world's first 50 pens by many literary authorities. His books were translated into 9-10 languages. Many of his books are written in English, French, Norwegian, a precious woman who is translated into language as much as the world. Sait Faik won the Abayanık Story Gift and won first place in Deutsche Welle's story contest. He's got a CV. You know who that is, don't you? Some of you know that Aslı Erdogan was on Özgür Gündem's publishing council. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll be right there, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0262par0188	President, give me an additional minute because the two minutes are up when he starts talking.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0263par0189	I'm giving you an extension because I gave the Republican People's Party a minute the other day. I'll give you an additional minute to throw other parties when necessary.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0257par0190	Thank you very much, Mayor. Aslı Erdogan has won a lot of scholarships, wrote a book, is really literary, intellectually high-quality, which is what the world authorities show. Because he wrote a column in Özgür Gündem newspaper and was on the broadcast board... but do you know what charge he was charged with? Yeah, well, anything can happen, for God's sake, he's a member of a terrorist organization. Well, if there is, a member of a terrorist organization like that in the world, I'd be happy to go and be a member myself. So at least one of you can open a book, read an art, see a literature. Really, look, if you do this, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow you can't tell the world where we're fighting with the people. So we think that we should leave this extraordinary state and really use it against the coupgers, but not get involved with literaryists, academics, peacemakers over a witch hunt like this. Thank you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0264par0195	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy. Anthalya MP Mehmet Günal will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0265par0199	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. At this time of night, I'd like to offer a little attention to the friends who are still paying attention. Of course, the agreement was made with Israel. There is an agreement not only on 3 articles, but on 1. Actually, that's half a deal because it was about compensation. It's a gift, a gift, a deal, I'm afraid. It's impossible to say that there's an agreement for him in the sense that we're talking about it in the first place. Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Elitaş have informed our group in the past days, and they've passed on some things, but when we look at it, we need to evaluate where we're coming from in the daytime, which is where we're coming from, and we can only make these mistakes in the daytime, so we can reduce them, and we have a chance to follow a more national foreign policy. So, how did we get here? I mean, why are we making this deal? What was the point of that? When we look back, the main thing that happened with the blue marmara was that we didn't take it to the harbor, if you remember. So if we had done what they said at the time, if we had done what they said we would have done, we wouldn't have come to such a conclusion. So, what do we do now, as of now? Again, we will pass over Israel, and send it to Ashdod. So what's it gonna be? Don't we recognize the blockade again? I don't quite understand. If there's anything different, it'll let friends know where we don't understand. Look, the reason the Blue Marmara incident happened was because that ship didn't come to that port that day. So it wouldn't be a problem if we brought help the way they said it would be. What'd you say? Go ahead. It's been said. All right, now we've got a deal. We've called it, we've removed the blockade. Where will help go? I'm curious. In the same way, we will send help from their point of view and through their control, which led to this incident that day. Well, then why did we suffer these losses, act on their history? This needs to be discussed. I'm sorry. When it's called an apology in international literature, it has to be in a statement. Okay, on the terms of that day, he got a call from the U.S. authorities, but he works differently when we call him "official apology." Okay, let's take that as a softie. Yes, it's important for relationships to improve, but I say we have to present them right, dear friends. There's one concrete thing, which is something you call a restitution agreement, but there's no compensation anywhere. I told you in the daytime, during negotiations with the Foreign Commission, Mr Ekmeleddin Ihsanoğlu made it clear, I looked at the transcripts. So when we look at it in English, we call it an economics form of compensation. I mean, it's a blessing. ▪ It's a legal term we call Tasminat. And this, sir, has happened, our citizens have been compensated for the damage that's different, but we need to define what we're doing correctly, so I'm telling you, it's like we've done something so big, we've solved everything. It's not like we've solved everything. We've taken one step, we've softened it, we've brought it to a certain point. Oh, I'll tell you why you're saying this here: what I've always said is that when you like to say harsh words about domestic politics in foreign policy, because it's escaped from the dissolution, then people suffer for it, and then on the way back, you have to say a lot of things like that. However, if an institutional foreign policy were applied in a national way, if it were done by consulting relevant institutions, we would not fall for it. So, as head of state, the President is separate, his spokesman, general secretary is separate; the State Department is separate. Sometimes I'm sad because before I get a statement from the State Department, Ibrahim Kalk Pat makes a statement. I mean, we can't make it up to you this time. Mr. President gets a statement, comes after him this time, first... what did he say, Mr. Erdogan? Then when you're stuck, you ask me if you've left. You have to say, "You've left." They're both wrong; they're wrong from the beginning, and the next is wrong. I've said for two days, it's not right to have a family meeting in my brother Esed. It's not right. It's wrong. Whatever the interests of Turkey require, we can make the necessary negotiations at the moment, at which point we can compromise what is in our favor. There's something in economics that we call the pareto optimum, and I tell the diplomats about it, so the change continues to be in both sides' favor, and we describe the pareto optimum in the lines of those points of change. At least one of the sides is supposed to be not losing while the other one is winning. Once one side starts hurting, that change stops. That's what we have to do with foreign policy. Or what? We're constantly losing our credibility with zigzags, and we're losing our weight in foreign policy, and we can't tell when we're going. I mean, just the other day, in the past few weeks, the observations of our friends who went to different countries to tell about post-plot developments, not just me, but my colleagues on the London delegation, but also my friends who went to other countries. Then our restability, our weight, our credibility as a country is disappearing. We can't lose them, and the word we're saying has to weigh in. We're actually looking here now, literally, the sea embargo hasn't been lifted, so that's what it looks like. He offered to download the supplies to Ashdod, and to transfer them to Gaza, where we are sending them again. So, what happens next? Only, along with this deal, dear friends, will we take the money they've given us, and instead of compensation, they'll give a blessing, and we'll hand it out to those who take it and sue the people who are hurt. What do we do in return? And in return, we're going to dismiss their lawsuits from here by law. I mean, these were the things that had to be done by consent, because, in normal circumstances, there aren't so many big numbers so far. Why is there a deal coming up here? Now why are we dealing with this? Do they need an agreement to pay compensation under normal circumstances? I don't know in the international sense, but as you've always done to block cases and avoid lawsuits, we agreed yesterday, there were issues of publicisation, and we're taking away the citizens' right to sue again -- one of the most fundamental rights. Thus, it could be arranged, prevented, without need, by bilateral relations, by what we are really going to do. So when we call it an international agreement, there's nothing about the blockade, there may be agreements about other relationships, but there's nothing else to give up the case in exchange for what they call a blessing. For him, we need to keep in mind that our foreign policy cannot be led by lasting friendships or lasting hostility, and that for him, we need people who conduct our actions and our rhetorics to pay attention. Otherwise we'll have to do it back and forth all the time. Once again, I remind you that like the situation that we're in now in Syria, like our relations with Egypt, we may have to go the other way a week later, just like our situation in Libya. That's our concern as the National Movement Party. Hopefully, we're calling it Parliamentary diplomacy, which was initiated to implement a national foreign policy, because we've seen it abroad in different countries. As Parliament, our weight is different. Unfortunately, as a government spokesman, what you say alone is not as much rest as it used to be. And here's the loss of creditability because we're constantly talking back and forth because we can't stand by what we're saying, and then they start looking at it differently. We, MHP, always think of our national interests, first my country and my nation, then my party, then me. We're doing politics based on our understanding of foreign policy, especially our concerns inside -- and at all meetings, our friends pay attention to this -- but we have to keep things separate while we're here with us. It is good for our country to maintain its relations with all its neighbours, with all its interests, in terms of mutual interest; it is good for it to improve its relations, including Israel, Russia; but in doing so, we need to learn from our past mistakes and be careful not to experience them anymore. I think this should be something we can learn a lesson from. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation again. It's important to compensate those people. It's not called taszminat, maybe we've had to take it a little lower, but it says we shouldn't cause such things again, such incidents and disasters, and I salute all of you at this hour of the night. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0266par0214	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ardahan MP Ozturk Yilmaz will speak. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0267par0218	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're discussing the Israeli agreement late at night. Tonight is a night in foreign policy where political power has been proven to have lost its deterrent with the six-point agreement we've discussed here. In the same way, tonight is the night of the end of its ephemeral and charm. ▪ Israel is a state of terror. Israel is a murderer. We can't think of anything very positive, but it's a night when the legend of Israel ends. At the same time tonight, we would also wish that the articles of this agreement should be discussed in the squares, just as these issues about Israel have been discussed in public in the last six years, as they have been exploited in domestic politics, as they have been exploited, as Israeli anti-Semitism and Palestinian sympathy have been reflected in the chest, and so should the public know that the anti-Israel anti-Substantialism was thrown away in these articles. Now, we've supported normalization all along. We never want relations with any country to get worse, relationships to get worse. In April, when the government was still speaking from the top curtain in relations with Israel, we went to Israel with a delegation; we went to Tel Aviv, we went to Jerusalem, we went to Ramallah, we had talks in the West Bank, both in Palestine, Israel, and this agreement was still coming to the agenda of the new public. We discussed it there in detail, and we understood that this matter had been closed, and there was a shyness because the words were not meant to be remembered. On the other hand, it was spoken in parliament, political parties were talking about it, and most importantly, the Israeli press had all its articles. Every item was known, if you had asked ordinary citizens on the streets of Jerusalem, they could have counted the terms of Israel to you, but even the ministers of our government, most ministers didn't know what was being spoken. We've been through this. He hid. Now, what happened? It's out in the open now. We know what's being discussed. Right now, these materials will be in front of us, in front of the public tomorrow, and from now on, these matters will be discussed in the most detailed way. As the government always declares, we have three conditions, as if it were the UN Security Council's decision. The three conditions he declared himself were a bar he set. There was an apology; in 2013, it was said that President Obama had been apologized through him. Second, there was compensation. Compensation is interesting. This agreement is supposed to arrange compensation, but this agreement contains a pardon that is compressed into compensation, a pardon for Israeli soldiers. Israel's troops are expected to be released from legal and criminal responsibility, to be closed the cases filed against them, not to open any cases, and a compensation is paid. $20m is being compensated, and in addition, Turkey will also pay if there are lawsuits in Turkey that are being filed, if they are still resisting, and if they are determined to continue, the victims of this, the relatives of these martyrs, in the event of some form of compensation. So the agreement is veiled by Israel, and the compensation is imposed on Turkey. Again, Turkey's payment envisions that Israel will pay $20m in full and be exempt from the legal, criminal process, and in no way be prosecuted. International lawsuits can be filed. It's called the Foreign Commission; I want to clarify that on a local basis, you want all cases in Turkey to be closed, the roads closed, and you pass, the Turkish state can't support the lawsuits that individuals will open outside, it can't encourage them, it can't defend them. You say that. So there's a deterrent there, too. And yet it can still be sued, yes, but you're blocking the road. Why are you stuffing it? Because you don't want Israeli soldiers to be tried, you don't want 34 cases involving Israeli soldiers to be overturned, you want to close them down, and more importantly, you're blocking the arrests of Israeli soldiers when they come to Turkey in some way, including criminal cases related to Israeli soldiers or arrests against them. This deal is a closing agreement. The soldiers of Israel are secured in every way, and are not touched in any way. There's no other way to explain it. Well, wouldn't one put a substance on these dead people, these martyrs? Don't they have a memory? Don't you ever put any stuff in here? If this Blue Marmara ship had gone directly, had it reached Gaza, Gaza, we had pierced the sea blockade. Would you not boast about it, and boast about it? He left and this incident took place. You can't stop now, behind it, you can't defend it because there's nothing to defend. It's obvious what everyone's talking about, what everyone's talking about. This has really been a turning point for us. We're having a night when our deterrents crawl on the ground, and when the deal comes out tomorrow, you'll see, the number one issue is the rescue of Israeli soldiers. We're talking about securing Israeli soldiers tonight under a law under the 90th Amendment. The third issue was the removal of the blockade. See, we call it the blockade, first the blockade; then, when it became the embargo; then we talked about reducing the embargo; and recently, especially after this agreement came to the agenda, reducing the sanctions, gradually, if it hadn't come to this agenda for three more months, I think it would have been thrown out as well. Believe me, we're having a night of this much U-turn. The blockade isn't taking off. No one can say the blockade has been removed. Why? It should have been known that the blockade wouldn't be removed anyway. Israel sees the removal of the blockade as a right to the removal of the sea blockade -- the removal of the sea blockade that we understand -- as a right of sovereignty, red line, we will not give up on it." he says. Two: the safety of the Israeli soldiers, we will not give up." He says, and he makes sure he's safe. This agreement, in fact, was said just now, and we said it in the Foreign Affairs Commission, and I said it there, and it's a memorandum of understanding, and it's supposed to be reflected in the reason for the understanding. But we know that not all departments are reflected. How do we know? I'll tell you. One: You had three conditions, and Israel had three conditions. One of the three conditions of Israel, and most important, was the security of the Israeli soldiers that Netanyahu was most concerned about, so that the judicial process was to completely block the judiciary. Second: It was a sea blockade, and by no means is Israel drawing anyone near from the sea, and it is fulfilled. The third issue was Hamas. For the past six years, a case that we've taken as Hamas has been the subject of Hamas, none of which have been in this document, but it was in the text of understanding. How was it going? Like what was going on in the Covenant text? ▪ Turkey and Israel declare that they do not allow military activity or support such activities on their own or on their own countries -- terrorists, I stress -- or outside their country. To this end, Turkey and Israel take all necessary measures to ensure that such activities cannot be entered, planned, executed, or funded -- any organization against one another on the territory of such activities -- the organization, I want to underline -- or the group. Who's he singing for? It's for Hamas, it's for Hamas in Turkey. This agreement basically means that two halves have been sold. 1) The families of the victims. 2) Hamas is also being sold. We're seeing this through this understanding. Now, sir, we'd like normalization to happen, of course we do, we've said that from the beginning. While normalisation is happening, we see that Turkey has first come up with very easy conditions. That's the way it is with everything. We call it a red line, then we forget the red lines. We're declaring conditions, conditions aren't met. Well, isn't that destroying Turkey's reputation, destroying Turkey's deterrent? Isn't that Turkey's reputation, who got hurt after it was swallowed up? Today, with Israel, and some time ago with Russia, perhaps later with Syria, these developments will occur. We're losing altitude over altitude, and unfortunately... We always say that after July 15th, a new generation must begin. For one thing, we're not supposed to make a promise that we can't keep, that we can't. If we made a promise, we need to do it. We're having a conflict because it's a very sweet subject. In Turkey, the election was won by this; in the streets, in the streets, in the parks, in the squares, it was brought up, and now there's a gearing. We, personally, think it's upsetting as far as the point is concerned. Now, I just told you, there's a higher understanding. What's going on in this agreement? It's supposed to be called lightening the productions, and it doesn't exist here either, in this agreement. In accordance with Israel's protocols, Israel's security debates are expected to be carried out into Gaza directly from the port of Ashdod, which will lead directly to Gaza, and it predicts that Israel's mechanisms will be carried out in accordance with the protocols of Israel. So even if you were to go from Ashdod to Gaza even if you were to deliver a goods, you still need an audit, an oversight, and again an Israeli protocol and understanding, you can't pass it yourself. So what we're saying now is that the blockade has been lifted, the embargo has been lightened, so this is where Israel is given a direct authority. And what does that mean? 1) We recognize the Israeli embargo on Gaza. 2) That is how we recognize Israel's sovereignty over Gaza, for the purpose of the Blue Marmara ship was to go there and destroy that embargo, to overturn the rules that were enforced there. Now this deal turns that wheel around. We need to know that. Mr. Secretary is here, he'll answer for sure. In this agreement, Israel's sovereignty over Gaza is somewhat recognised. So no one can go out and say, "This embargo has eased." This is the greater weight of the bilateral embargo. There may also be supplies to go, supplies to be shipped, as long as the quietness continues. Who will decide if there is peace when there is no peace? Israel will decide. So, yes, peace is broken today. Your trucks will not be able to pass to Gaza after they have been dropped in the port of Ashdod. So we need to know these things. I mean, we made a deal, and the headlines are being made, like everything else: "Victory!," "This is success." There is no success. So, if anyone sees any success in this, there's no success here. Of course we do, but it's like the Battle of Pirus. I mean, once everything's turned upside down, there's only normalization left. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk to you about something else, and I'd like to finish up late at night. Now, these cases are closed. The law will be passed, and it's not clear how this law will be enforced. He'll go to the courts, some cases will be closed in those courts, some cases will continue, of course Turkey will compensate those who continue, the issue of compensation that will come later. So, what happens next, then what? You're even preventing a citizen's right to complain about human rights. So much protection... and how do you avoid it? You're getting waivers from the families you've compensated, and you're sending them to Israel that we've taken them, and we've done it. After all, that's the deal. This agreement is open to criticism from every angle. This will be very controversial. Also, Israel is a black spot in relations with the Israelites. I mean, Turkey always has to have an advantage, it has to have a charm, it has to have a high moral ground. This one's worn out tonight. A success story will be told in the morning Herald -- in the Israeli newspaper -- and in other newspapers -- because all the conditions they put forward have been fulfilled. It is not a sea blockade, but the soldiers of Israel are in full security, and they are chained to Hamas. Besides, I wonder why this Hamas thing is never in the papers. Did we not open our relations with the West Bank because of Hamas? About the unity and integrity of Palestine, unfortunately, because of Hamas, did we not enter into feisty with the government of the West Bank? Now, that's sold, too. Well, don't you ever think about bringing up Hamas? Look, it's in this agreement, it's in here, it's in Hamas. This has nothing to do with the terrorist organization, the PKK, or anything like that, the address is here. That's the only way to express it in a diplomatic language. The address here is Hamas, a chain to Hamas' activities, a blockage of activities referred to as terror. I wanted to make this clear, and hopefully we'll learn a lesson, and then we won't swallow what we said three months ago in three months. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0268par0236	Thank you. İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu will speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0269par0241	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, you sacrifice everything for one dry power. You're giving away everything you've got with your fault for hundreds of years. There was an Israeli issue -- which was one of the very important cornerstones of our generation -- you gave it to me because the President said so? There are nine lives in the Blue Marmara. After that, the sermons, the porters, and now the 20 million dollars received as a blessing, and what was given in return, our friend just told us. If he made this deal another party, you'd be up now, now, you're out on the street tonight, you're up, but you're going to have to bow your head right now, you're going to have to look like this. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0270par0246	Why?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0271par0247	Why should we bend it?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0269par0248	I don't know why you're bending it.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0271par0249	Keep your head down.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0269par0250	My head's high, I'm not tilting, you're tilting.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0271par0251	Look at you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0272par0252	Let's not talk mutually, please.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0269par0253	The AK PARTY is no longer that party, and everyone says that, not the Justice and Development Party established in 2002. What happened to bringing justice, giving out justice? With equality, democracy, the state of law, the oppressed and the victims, there is no such AK PARTY. You've broken all your promises, you've left all your words behind. After this deal, you asked the passengers of the Blue Marmara, after you said to them, you no longer have anything to say to humanity, to Turkey, to people. I told you before, you don't have a future utopia. Dear lawmakers, in fact, you are a pragmatist party of Justice and Development, a party that pursues real politics. The Israeli-Palestinian thing, the speeches and all that, it was all about real politics, domestic politics. We know that when you were founded, you went to Americas in 2002, asking for support from outside the focal points against the inner custody centers. You've been to the Jewish lobby. You've received the prizes of bravery. Then, for a long time, good relationships continued. What happened during these relationships? You allowed Israel to participate in NATO activities. You allowed Israel into the OECD. During the talks on nuclear weapons, you abstained, and Israel's nuclear weapons would be questioned. After the Blue Marmara, you did not give the required documents to the court in The Hague. You didn't do what you had to do with the red newsletter, which was discovered about the Israeli commanders. Then all of a sudden, things change, you're stuck, like in foreign policy, you know, and then you use all of this stuff, and then you're stuck, and now you're looking for a deal.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0273par0255	What did you do? What did you do?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0269par0256	Did I make the deal with Israel, friends? When did I rule this Turkey?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0273par0257	No, no, what did you do as CHP?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0269par0258	Don't look for accomplices in any way, you're guilty yourself, if that was a crime. Now, you're asking me? Look, a writer says something serious, he says: "Whatever system the AKP had built, its insurance has been blown." Indeed, you leave all your claims here this evening, you will leave them saying yes to this agreement. There is something more grave, my dear friends, that you have seriously disturbed the souls of the Blue Marmara martyrs by bringing this agreement into such an environment, such a psychology tonight.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0274par0261	Then why didn't you react?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0269par0262	You brought it at this hour because no one listens or watches. You don't want him to listen, you don't have a face because of my dear friends. Just zigzags about Israel? Your foreign policy is purely apocalypse, all of it. Your Syrian policy: 400,000 dead there, 400,000, and your policy, one of your ministers has already confessed to it in some way. Your Egyptian policy: What happened? Now you're writing a letter to Sisi. Why did you leave alone those you supported in Egypt? Yes, my dear friends, no matter what anyone says, Israel is still -- as we said before, I say, again -- an occupation state. Israel is still a state that digests its own people by means of terrorism. That's the way it is. Look, there's a map, a map. What happened at the beginning of the 1900s - yellow and green - then what happened when Israel was formed, and what happened in 1967? And the present Israel, Palestine, shows that green colors are Israel, Palestine. That's what Palestine is made of. Look, ten years ago, we visited Camp Shatila with the Eastern Conference in Lebanon. The camp manager is a Palestinian. When he was eight years old, he emigrated to Lebanon and to this day he lives in the camp. Abdullah Kasim showed us a key. My only wealth, my only property, is this key. My father entrusted me with this key. This key is the key to our house in Palestine. I'll go and open my house one day. Look, you've made this hope a domestic policy material, my dear friends, you've made internal policy material, and now, at this time of night, here, you're going to pass this deal. Look, fight Israel. We're not saying anything. You could have defended this Palestinian case diplomatically. At one point, Turkey did these things, and they did well, but you didn't do that, you did everything in the extreme, you did everything in foreign policy, you did everything in the extreme, and you used it all as the product of domestic politics in the squares, everything. Look, it was a fair case that Islamists, leftists, supported the press in Palestine, and I just said it, because people were taken from their homes, their homelands. Right now, they live under the blockade of the embargo. Those who left know what life was like in Gaza. So, what do you have in the end? For the sake of a dry power, you leave your soul here tonight, friends, to leave your soul. Besides, how much power this power is, how much weight it's on your shoulders, it's something else. Our friend told me, I won't enter, what the Israeli Agreement is, what it means, what it means, what it means, whether there's an apology, whether it's up or not it's up, what you've got in there, what you've got in there, what you've got in there. Only nine lives, nine martyrs, or the Palestinians and Hamas, for $20 million, are all given, that's one thing. There's no apology, there's no official apology. Look, my AKP MP friends, again in 2003, AKP lawmakers wrote an epic that will never be forgotten in this Parliament, which is that they refused to let Turkey join the invasion of Iraq with the United States, along with the votes of Republican People's Party MPs, about 100. What are you going to do tonight, I'm waiting, I'm waiting; Turkey is waiting for you, Mr. Karakcı. I really wonder how you're gonna answer to your conscience after you raise your hand on these deals. I wonder what you'll say to the Blue Marmara martyrs, millions of Palestinians from their homeland. What about these famous children's generals who threw stones at Arafat? You understand these terms, these concepts, my friends, we've used them together for years. Then I wonder what you'll say about the famous Rachel Corrie. Dear MPs, foreign policy and running the country...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0275par0278	Mr. Bacheloroglu, can you explain the statement of the pirate ship?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0269par0279	...it's something else.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0275par0280	I'm asking you, would you explain the pirate ship's explanation?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0269par0281	Look, you don't want to...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0275par0282	Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu said that the ship is a pirate, explain that to him.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0269par0283	Look, he's asking about Kılıçdaroğlu. In those days, Kilicdaroglu made a statement as follows...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0275par0284	No, he did it in 2015, in March 2015.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0269par0285	He said if I couldn't keep him safe, I wouldn't send this ship.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0276par0286	You said it, you said it!
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0269par0287	The prime minister of the period called out in the squares, saying, "The current President supports Israel, speaks like Israel." That was wrong, too, my dear friends. There are only things that the Prime Minister of the period, the current President, wrote at that time, I don't share. Running a country is something else. Yeah, you keep getting votes, you get votes, but...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0277par0288	Which means we're running it well.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0269par0289	You can't run the country. This is where we came in 15 years later: our democracy is threatened, there is no law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] People's rights are threatened, international relations are bad, everything is bad. My dear friends, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0278par0294	Look in the mirror.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0269par0295	Look in the mirror, sir, look in the mirror!
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0278par0296	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0279par0297	Mr. Bachelor, please...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0280par0298	That's a slogan, that's a slogan.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0281par0299	It's your job to make slogans, it's your boss's job to make slogans. You've been taking it with a slogan for 15 years.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0279par0300	Mr. Bachelor, please... you've finished your speech, please...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0280par0301	You're just making a slogan. Look at your evolution.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0279par0302	On behalf of him, İstanbul MP Razza Karakcı Kan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Crowder Blood.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0282par0305	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, first of all, let me start with the last sentence of our speaker: everything is very bad. I don't think so.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0283par0307	He's got a different problem, we know that.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0282par0308	Everything's going to be fine in our country, hopefully even better. In particular, the terrible incident we had on July 15th, the fact that we were gathered here in the House on the 16th of July, with the participation of all parties, all precious parties, is encouraging for our country.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0284par0309	That's why you don't make people talk.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0282par0310	After that, the seizures we've kept for 27 days, the unity, the unity, the union, the people of all sides, the men, the children, the women, the children -- the rally that we've done in Yenikapı to crown it, and the process that we've done in order to make it a crown -- hopefully, things will be better. As it has just been stated, we're talking about reparations between the Republic of Turkey and the State of Israel -- reparations, I repeat, we're just talking about compensation here -- we're talking about the draft bill that ratification of the Usul Agreement is appropriate. And I have made a pledge on my own behalf. You know, I remember very well the days of the Blue Marmara incident. I had many friends on that ship, many brothers and sisters. I was among those who waited until morning for the ship's arrival after the ugly attack on international waters. From here, again, I ask God's mercy to all our Blue Marmara martyrs. To all our brothers and sisters who were martyrs in Palestine with them, I ask God's mercy, and I offer my condolences to their families. A few issues have been brought up. As you know, Turkey had three conditions after this attack. One of the conditions was to give Turkey compensation for those who lost their lives in the Blue Marmara. That's what the law today is about. A few issues have been brought up. Why did one of them use the term "ex-gratia"? It has to do with this. I'd like to say that this expression is due to a legal conviction that was obtained in a dispute between the two states by the means of negotiation without a trial or criminal action. The external sum was paid without a court order, so it was used to say "ex-gratia" because it was paid without obligation. Furthermore, since then, statements have been used to indicate that there is no compensation. My English isn't bad, Fehmi Hodja at Ankara College. May God bless you for a long life - he's an ambitious teacher. From what I've learned from Fehmi Ozturan, it means "tazminat" with the support of fellow lawmakers. After presenting him, I'd like to say: Why did the Blue Marmara go to Palestine, and what was the purpose of going? It was to bring help to the people there.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0285par0316	To pierce the blockade.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0286par0317	Mr. Bachelor, please, excuse me.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0282par0318	Excuse me, Mr. Bachelor, I've listened to you patiently. Please -- my voice is low -- allow me to express myself. The word "abluka" was never expressed, the word "abluka" was not mentioned, the word "ambargo" was from there. The goal was to help the children of Palestine, the women, the people who lived there, our brothers and sisters. That was the goal, they went for it, so our martyrs, our nine martyrs, gave their lives. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So, what's changed from that day to now? Lady Layla's ship has gone and brought help. From now on, the help that has not been taken before will be gone. What help? Infrastructure assistance. Our Department of Energy will be able to go and investigate there, and according to its needs, water, electrical hospital substructure -- whatever it takes, we'll be able to do it from now on. Everything's not perfect, everything's not perfect in life, but with this deal, everything's not black and white, and the gray lines in between... help will be taken to the Palestinian people. I'm sure some of you have gone. It was one of the most precious experiences of my life to go to Palestine, to see how you can be a prisoner in your own country. As guests, when we went there on tourist visas, we saw it clearly and openly when we went in and attended our meetings at the El Aksa Mosque and admired the history of the city and visited different cities after visiting it. Because when you were in and out of Palestine from areas controlled by the state of Israel, you were having a great deal of trouble in and out of the area, and we as tourists were having this experience, where more and more citizens were living there. We saw exactly how much help they really needed. With this deal, it'll be done. Maybe there will be those who are satisfied with the deal, and there will be those who aren't, but with this deal, the AK PARTY has taken a huge responsibility and has taken an important step to correct their relations in international relations, and has taken it to the benefit of the Palestinian people. In that sense, all the partners in Palestine also support this agreement, and let us make it clear. In order for the faces of the children of Palestine to smile, the martyrs had already given their lives for him - and after that, steps will be taken in this area along with this agreement. Sometimes we discussed it in the Foreign Commission, and there were those who said that Turkey did not own it. Although this was an international act when the incident of the Blue Marmara occurred, the Republic of Turkey was there, at the top level, until each of the wounded there were taken back from all over the country, whether it was their own citizens or not, until the last prisoner was taken. Again, I ask for God's mercy on our blue Marmara martyrs, and I pray for God's mercy on all the Palestinian martyrs. I also want to finish by saying that in 1949, we were the first to know Israel. Then who was in power, and who was in power if we had to talk about what was said and written? CHP was in power. Mr. Bachelor, he shared this beautiful map with us, and I thank you very much. The reason the incident on this map has come to this is because...
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0287par0326	The CHP is also responsible for the Ankara War!
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0288par0327	Listen, listen.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0282par0328	Will you excuse me, Mr. Bachelor? Let me finish. It wasn't because of the AK PARTY, the AK PARTY that took steps to solve it, the AK PARTY that did it with courage. (Cheers and applause from the chp rows!) Thank you, I'm not finished yet, Mr. Bachelor. I'll tell you when I'm done. If you want to applaud, you can clap. (EC PARTY Applause) The EC PARTY government has spent this bill with the support of the Foreign Affairs Commission to make Palestinian children smile, perhaps at the expense of a number of hearts, and I support this bill. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit09spe0289par0332	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I hereby submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit10spe0289par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks with Bill 414. The commission is here. The government is here. THE PROGRESS OF CONTINUATION OF CONTROLATION WITH THE TURKEY REPUBLIC REPUBLICATION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on June 28, 2016 between the Republic of Turkey and the State of Israel of Israel. Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on Article 1. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit10spe0290par0010	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in these critical and difficult matters, the way society's mind, society's memory is shaped is actually as important as the way politicians are, the way the relationship between states is. Of course, since I'm not of Mr. Bachelor's generation, I don't know how it came about in his day, but in my day, I'd like to ask you who owns the best-selling book on Israel, about the Jews. Hodja, it belongs to Aaron John. It belongs to Adnan Hoxha. Now, the memory of a society, the perspective of a society, the mindset of a social population at that level, is being formed at that level, in fact, we need to not only discuss politics, we need to discuss interstate relations, we need to debate more seriously, more seriously, not just how to discuss the world, maybe the world, the different beliefs, how to look at different identities, how to look at different identities. Dear friends, the view of Israel, the relationship with Israel, is actually a turning point for the Middle East, and we all know that the relationship with Israel is not just a relationship with Israel; we all know that from the founding of Israel, from the background of Israel's presence there, but the dimension as important as this is, is that many regimes in the Middle East are suppressing debates within themselves through the anti-Israelism of Israel. In particular, the majority of Arab regimes, Arab countries, constantly motivate society by anti-Israelism, suppressing demands, criticisms inside, demands for democratisation, objections to corruption, criticisms. For there is an enemy in the Middle East who is sufficient to cover up all things, and his hatred for him is sufficient to cover up all things. Therefore, in terms of many regimes, relations with Israel are also a problem of democratisation in many countries in the region. Because really, the demands of the people in these countries are dominant in politics, or other forces or other forces that determine the policy of these countries' governances, meaning a decisive meaning. Again, in the Middle East, relations with interstate relations, such as peace, are very important in whether there will be real, permanent peace in the Middle East. Not only do we discuss relations with Israel on the axis of external forces, but, in fact, we need to get closer to the point of harmony between governments and their own people. I'll tell you at the end of the conversation in the first place, the right to this deal is to ask the public, dear friends. So how does the community view such an agreement with Israel, whether it is positive or negative? If we respect his will, if his concerns, his criticisms, his value world mean anything to us, then at least we have to process him. Dear friends, it has just been expressed, the first country to recognise Israel in the Islamic world is Turkey, but in fact, the reason for the delay in that process is a little interesting. So just now, what party was in power in 1949? It was done in polemics, but the basis of the discussion is more interesting and it is a state policy. In fact, Turkey has been distant, worried that Israel will become a Soviet base in the Middle East. So thanks to Israel, the Soviets will settle in the Middle East, we stand in an antisoviet place, an anticommunist place, so if we stand against Israel, we think that we are actually taking a stand against the Soviets. But we soon saw it as the other way around. The whole world in that region saw Israel, not the base of the Soviet Union, who was the base of the countries, who was the more intense, the warmer relationships with whom. There's no time to evaluate a very long historical process, but there are two recipes, which are categorically important because when you say the big word, it turns around and gives you a big headache. In 2002, during the occupation of Ramallah, representatives of the ruling party of the period are describing state-sponsored terrorism, state-sponsored terrorism. Then, in 2004, the Gaza operation went up a bar and directly used the expression "state terrorism." When Ahmed Yasin was murdered, he was now described as a terrorist state. These three categories are actually consistent within themselves, and they have to mean something after that, and there's Mr. Davutoglu's sentence about the Blue Marmara. He says this is our 9/11. Now, I want you guys to make a very simple comparison. Who was to say that after the Blue Marmara, relations with Israel should not be tensed, that there should be peace with Israel, that it was not worth breaking relations for, and who was to defend it? Remember, close to Fethullah Smiley, the media organs were defending them, and the media close to the government accused them of Zionism at that time. Now, where do we come from, then, what does it mean? I mean, they're in prison, but their ideas are in power. Dear friends, of course, fight Israel. No one here says that anyone who spoke before me knows the truth of the Middle East, the power of states, the limits of Turkey's power. So we're just trying to draw attention to the contradiction between what we said and what we had to do later. Here, changing positions from one side to the other, but as if you were right in every position, the use of a hegemonic language as if it had moral superiority actually prolongs the discussion. So let's just say, clearly, that we're helpless in the precious loneliness of foreign policy. Therefore, we must make peace with Israel, or else we will lose everything. If we say this, confess this, accept the truth, perhaps there will not be so much discussion, but we are right when we deliver, and we are right when we make peace. Every time you're right, you're always looking for consistency. Dear friends, Turkey's statement on the European foreign policy about NATO is very similar to Papandreou's foreign policy speech. I mean, we're neighboring countries, and I think our politicians have similar styles. Andreas Papandreou also opposed the European Community, said he would shut down NATO bases, promised to leave NATO, but expressed the real political opposite form. I'm not going to say much about the Blue Marmara and the deal, but I'm just going to advise you to read the letters of the veterans and the relatives of the martyrs. Dear friends, there's no time to discuss the difference between the embargo and the blockade, but I'll tell you this: before the Blue Marmara, there was help for Gaza. The purpose of the blue Marmara was to send help despite Israel, without permission from Israel, and Israel did not allow it. After the blue Marmara, help was gone, and how is Palestine standing? With help, he stands and continues to help, and with this agreement, the help will now be registered only by the permission of Israel. With an international agreement, it will actually have a higher legal status, and the actual situation will actually become a legal text. Dear friends, I think that's the most unfortunate aspect of Turkey's politics, which usually goes against whatever party there is in power, which is done by that power hand. In the two years before the Welfare Party, Turkey had signed 13 agreements with Israel from 1993 to 1996 to 1997, 20 agreements with Israel, and, of course, the agreements signed with Israel that day were only signed during the Welfare Party to break the reaction in society, not to mention the dead with mercy, not to speak behind anyone. Now, we know what's been done, and it's not your choices, but it has to be done today, because tomorrow, the legitimacy of other operations, the ground is being set up. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit10spe0291par0023	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit10spe0292par0027	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This is the Turkish-Israel Agreement that we're talking about, especially in foreign policy, which shows the consequences of Hamaset and propaganda for domestic policy and the damage to the country's interests, its image. Reverend MPs, how do you apologize? For example, is Turkey begging Russia for forgiveness by writing a letter? At the very least, we would have expected that Israel's apology to Turkey would be such an apology, but on 22 March 2013, a telephone call made to Netanyahu was made to return to the old process, with Obama taking part in a phone call with him, and with this, Turkey is trying to give a public impression of an apology as if it had been apologized to, but there is no clear apology; there is no obvious excuse. Thus, it is clear that Israel did not apologize to Turkey for this incident with the Blue Marmara. This is unacceptable, dear friends. Another remarkable thing -- I don't know if it escaped my attention, but it wasn't spoken -- is signed in Jerusalem. As far as we know, Tel Aviv is the capital of Israel. So, on one side in Ankara, when you look at the text of the agreement, this agreement is equally valid in Ankara and Jerusalem on June 28, 2015, each of which was signed as two copies in Turkish, Hebrew and English. It is signed by the foreign secretary of the two countries. The ministers of the government have to explain it. Why was it signed in Jerusalem? I mean, Turkey's is signed in Ankara, so I wonder if Jerusalem is the capital of Israel, an embezzlement manager, should we interpret it like this or how we should interpret it, it should be explained. And there is no compensation, there is no compensation, as if it were a blessing, and I wish that no such agreement had been made, but that the Republic of Turkey would have paid the equivalent of this kind of gift, to compensate for the loss of its victims. As far as we know, the total demand for compensation in cases is $14m, but I've given Israel $20 million, as you want it to be, and because of the lack of time, it's actually a deal that interferes with the rights and laws of both Turkey and the citizens of the Republic of Turkey and the citizens of Turkey. We are facing an agreement that will not be claimed, and will block the path of judgment, which will hurt the soul of the Blue Marmara martyrs and cause their families to cry out for help. He paid here, Israel. We can't get away with it. And the way and the quality of the payment is extremely important. With these opinions, dear friends, it is not possible to find this agreement with Israel as the National Movement Party, in the interest of Turkey and our nation, in the interests of the Turkish nation, and, of course, we wish that Israel and the Republic of Turkey and its government be in good relations, not just in these circumstances. This is a bad relationship, and in the end, the agreements that have been signed in domestic policy have also remonstrated a number of empty, emasculating propaganda words that have misled and shaped some provocative masses over the years since May 31st 2010. With these thoughts, I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit10spe0293par0035	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Demirel, do you withdraw your motion on Article 1?
tbmm-2016-08-19sit10spe0294par0037	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit10spe0293par0038	You're rolling, over. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. HDP MP Mithat Sancar will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on Article 2. Here you go, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit10spe0295par0045	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, the Turkish-Israeli Agreement actually said a lot of things. In situations like this, I can think of the word of a writer, who says: "In fact, everything has been said, but not by everyone. Let me tell you. I know I'm not going to say anything new, but I felt it was necessary to stress some things, so I wanted to take the time. It is clear that Turkey today wants to go to changes in foreign policy, a transformation of many things. That may be so, but some of the friends who spoke before us have expressed it. The need to make changes in foreign policy and domestic policy may arise. The way to deal with countries that have been in conflict before can be chosen, and there is nothing to dispute about. Foreign policy, we know it doesn't just work on ideals and claims. If only we were living in a world system of ideals, values and principles could get in the way of real politics. But we know it's not. We also know that it is not possible to conduct foreign policy by ignoring real politics. But there has to be a limit to real politics. There are two major currents that have been competing on this ever since or since the founding of the modern world system. In a brief way, perhaps, one of them sees foreign policy as a whole area of conflict of interest and says that the only defining motto of states is to protect the interests of saiki. That's the way it should be, that's the way it should be. Another opinion states that principles and values should be put first, as in other areas in foreign policy. However, we can say that neither of these views have always been carried out purely. The ideal synthesis may be: Yes, you look at real balances in foreign policy, the time comes, you make changes in policy that you've followed before, but you never reset values and principles, so you don't pretend they don't exist, they don't act like they don't exist. Now, in the foreign policy-change maneuvers we've seen recently, unfortunately, we can say that real politics is a huge priority. At first, relations with Russia, Israel and Mavi Marmara, even before that, the tension that emerged at the Davos Summit, now seeking a new relationship with Syria, and efforts to improve relations with Egypt. Now, the problem here is that when all these governments and crises arise, the government has a very tough, very strict, very high-profile attitude. Let's start with Israel: They've just counted our friends, and they've been talking about the state of terror. President Erdoğan, for example, said that as long as Israel and I exist, nothing good will ever happen, and these words were performed in the newspapers near the government, televisions, for days, or weeks, or even years. Again, my other friends have also stated that domestic policy was unfortunately used as a very intense material. The same thing happened in the crisis with Russia after the crash. Today we'll hit again. Those who say, "I'm behind you." We've heard the prime ministers say, "I'm behind you." Now, this has been constantly used in domestic politics in a way that is full of envy. Of course, what we can say about Syria is much worse. I mean, there are so many criticisms, not criticisms, accusations, insults, from the government of Assad in Syria. Now, when you try to find a new way, assuming that all of this never happened, the question is, of course, rightfully, where are the values? Is politics just an activity that works on real balances and interests? Don't principles and values matter at all? The matter of Egypt was also considered an inspiration and an example of a sign the AKP had used in the election squares, and you know the Rabia sign. And there was another military coup, which should have already been convicted, where there were far more serious allegations, words, evaluations that went beyond that. Now looking for a way to fix relationships. The fundamental problem, like I said, dear friends, is to ask if it's acceptable to give up principles so easily here. You have to ask yourself that, and we know that the public is asking this, their voices can be heard too much, they may not be heard, but the reasons you're trying to justify these maneuvers are not credible. Speaking on behalf of the AKP Group earlier, he said there was no lack of rights in this agreement. However, we all know that the reason for the departure of the Blue Marmara was not simply to bring help there. One important point is that he's jumping, and he's on the verge of bringing help without permission from the Israeli state of Marmara Blue, because it was already possible to send aid supplies to the port of Ashdod, and then, now and now, the materials that Israel allowed could only be taken to Gaza. Again, of course, everything is getting so mixed up that, now, after the raid on the Blue Marmara at the time, there was an explanation for the Fethullah Smiley, who said, "You have to take the help from authority." And then, of course, he saw a huge reaction because he had condemned the Blue Marmara movement, the reasons for the departure of the Blue Marmara. Now, the point you're coming to is the same thing as the man you call the great terrorist leader, who you describe, and who you describe as the man you call the "treasure." What is to be done after this agreement is clear, friends: relief supplies must be taken, taken, taken, must be helped to the people there, the ways must be found, but now, as you claim, this agreement does not make it a success, it does what it is. At least accept this fact, and after facing this reality, make a sincere self-criticism, and say, "We did it wrong." Let's say we did it wrong. Let's also say that it wasn't enough, my friends. We did wrong. There is one other thing that must be done after saying: Do not repeat this mistake. If you're going to make a sincere reckoning, if you're going to admit a mistake, an apology is only acceptable if you don't repeat it. Now, the government's Speaker, Mr. Liberal, has made a statement that many of the problems that have happened to Turkey are due to the errors in Syrian policy. Well, that means you've come to the point where we've been told by a lot of other people, as well as by the environment. Well, change that, change those mistakes. If you go the same way after admitting the error, then, really, is there a principle, is there a value? What principles, what values, and what are the basis of your policies? The public rightly asks the question. And you guys have to give me some satisfying answers. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit10spe0296par0059	Thank you, Mr. Sancar. Mr. Ceyhun İrgil will speak on behalf of him on the 2nd article. Here you are, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit10spe0297par0063	Dear President, my fellow lawmakers, at this late hour of the night, before our coven closes, perhaps you'll do one of the best, best things of the day. So I thank the Izmir MPs and the groups for their efforts and all parties who agree on this. As you know, we're about to discuss the re-establishment of two universities. I'd like to give a few warnings about that because there are a lot of misunderstandings, thousands of messages coming in. That's why I got this extension. Mr. Musa Çam, our Izmir MP, will be speaking about the university in a moment. I'm just saying it's for the guys who are watching us. Friends, as you know, with 15 universities closed, 65,000 students, 2,500 academics, administrative staff and employees were victims. In a sentence in the Legislative Code, this victimification could be resolved in one sentence; this sentence: all closed universities can be stateized and the academics passing through security investigation can continue to study on their campus. There would not be so much harm, confusion, and chaos if we could just say it. We've been at it for two weeks, and you're dealing with maybe thousands of messages and the victims of college students who have been shut down. We are now re-establishing Izmir and Gediz universities in İzmir. Of course, we can't be against university openings, but we wish that 15 universities would be opened this way as a public university, and that academics, students, workers would be happy, but we support that it would be a start, and that 13 other universities would be opened as soon as possible. One eats, one looks, and all hell breaks loose. We're opening these two universities today, but we're going to hear, you're going to hear, you're going to hear, you're going to hear thousands of messages from the other universities very soon, why haven't we opened up? Let's open up the other universities as soon as possible, and let's not leave these families, children, academics unattended. May the institutions of İzmir Democracy and İzmir Bakırçay and Beykoz University, founded today, be blessed. The establishment of these universities with the same universities is especially important for academics and employees who are unemployed. It is very important for these academics to be quickly employed again on their campuses and on their homes, and to prioritize these victims, to give priority to these people. And I'd like to point out from here that the ruling party has a verbal commitment to us. I'd like to draw very, very much attention to one thing, which is very important because you're going to be asked. Students text a lot, and they say: "Have our university been cleared?" Thank God, we're opening tomorrow; thank you, be there. This, my friends, is not an institutional law that means that colleges should be cleared. Two new universities are being established on campuses of these universities. Why? These beings, these national fortunes don't go to waste... these universities are actually being made into some kind of state. Therefore, it may take time for these universities to be announced, published and educated in the Official Gazette, so three months, four months, five months... so I warn students of the closing universities, please, very important: As the SEC announced in its decisions yesterday, you will choose the application date on August 23 to 26th, so don't miss it, this is very important. If you don't make your choices by twelve o'clock on the night of August 26th, you'll be out in the open. You make your choices, you can go back to your campus after these universities open. The government and the ruling party members, the Education Commission and the İzmir MPs, have done a lot of work on this, and they will do it, and with the swift decision of the SEC, our friends will have their own campus as soon as possible. Other than that, I'd like to thank those who work for these universities over and over again, because every opening university is an achievement, and it's very important that Izmir have two public universities. Also, I would like to warn both the government and all of our fellow lawmakers, especially all of the ruling group MPs, who are related to the SEC: Decisions made by the SEC are not implemented by the rectors and universities and are difficult. Friends, all universities and rectors must accept all our students at special student status and must not cause harm. The SEC has promised that, Mr. Prime Minister has promised, that our Hami universities will take care of our children. Please take care of it. Anyway, these kids, these people, these families, they've been victimized enough, so let's not get too upset. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And as a final statement, let's re-open it by nationalizing all the closing universities. Everyone stay with their teachers and the same campuses for free, because it's a victim they never deserved so at least a little less. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit10spe0298par0073	Thank you. Mr. Mehmet Ali Aslan will speak second on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit10spe0299par0077	Mr. President, I salute Mr. Court and the General Assembly. I ask God's mercy for those who lost their lives in the Blue Marmara. There was a public pressure against Israel at that time, or rather, on the Blue Marmara, and at that time, Fetullah Gulen stood up and made a statement that would remove all that public pressure, and you remember that they had to get permission from the state of Israel. On June 8, 2010, in my presidency -- at that time I was president of the Medical Association -- we made a press statement against Fetullah Gulen for the first time in Midyat, Turkey, and the world. Being a teacher, I was asked to be banished at that time, I was investigated, it's all in the media and it's in my file. In our press release, we also wrote foreign exchanges, which were written and published in the form of "The Hoca," "No Imperialism," "No Zionism," "No Gülism." Interestingly, sociologists and teachers such as Ahmet Demir, who were in the press with me at the time, have been arrested in Midyat (Midyat) for a week now. You also have to answer for this arrest; who are they arrested for, and why are they arrested for? Of course, as a matter of fact, I pray for God's mercy on the people who lost their lives in the Blue Marmara. I'd like to show you one by one pictures: Necdet Yıldırım, Cevdet Swords, Uğur Süleyman Notez, İbrahim Bilgen, Furkan Doğan -- also an American citizen -- Fahri Yıldız, Cetin Topcuoğlu, Cengiz Songür, Cengiz Akır and Ali Haydar Bengi. Regarding this agreement, the martyr relatives, veterans and victims, the attorneys of the ship read, prepared a press release; they demanded that it be read in parliament, and I will read if the time is long enough: the Press Met between the Republic of Turkey and Israel. The agreement between Israel and Turkey's Republic of Turkey on the incident of the Blue Marmara was considered in order to draw attention to the local and foreign victims of the Gaza Freedom Fleet, the families of the martyrs, and the consequences of Turkey, in order to draw attention to them, the agreement clauses were discussed downstairs, in order to be legal and diplomatic. Israel is free of any legal and criminal responsibility by donating $20 million to the United States. Israel takes no responsibility for the donation mentioned, facing Turkish government, citizens and foreign participants in issues such as the distribution of money to victims, delivery. The sum to be paid will only be given to the relatives of the martyr. Turkey's government is facing martyr relatives and other victims -- including other victims who are not compensated in any way -- including the wounded -- in the national and international areas of which nearly 700 squadron participants will open. It is thus a form of complete irresponsibility for Israel. The treaty gave Israel and Israel full legal, criminal immunity, and Israel was declared guilty for their crimes in the attack. Therefore, Turkey's government also pledges to officially forgive the perpetrators for the victims, the blood owners. Of course, for this commitment to be fulfilled, Istanbul 7. The criminal case at the High Criminal Court must also be terminated. In addition, the agreement will be signed in the capitals of both sides. Although it is understood in both sides, the contract was written as "Ankara" and "Kudus." However, the capital of Israel is Tel Aviv, not Jerusalem. Thus, Israel wants to declare Jerusalem to be such a capital, in fact, contrary to the United Nations decision; Jerusalem is not the capital of Israel. As lawyers of the Gazze Freedom Fleet and their families, we will not interfere in normalisation and political talks between the two countries over and over again, although both countries have been referred to the authorities in Turkey, which should not interfere in our cases, our clients are present and are planning to open after this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ..as it is not acceptable to save on cases, it is not legally possible with the reasons explained above. Blue Marmara is a lawyer for families of martyrs and victims. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit10spe0300par0091	Thank you, Mr. Lion. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 2 is accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-19sit11spe0300par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th Session of the 128th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks with Bill 414. The commission... I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
